u2021-11-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I warmly welcome my fellow Members and welcome everyone who is monitoring our meeting today. The fourteenth day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Dear Parliament, In 2015 the National Assembly was the 49/2015. By decision No. 15 November, Gábor Bethlen declared the date of birth of the Transylvanian prince as the day of the Hungarian sporadic. Our national responsibility for the fate of Hungarians beyond the borders is recorded by our Fundamental Law among the most important fundamental principles, and states that Hungary has a responsibility for the fate of Hungarians living outside its borders, promotes the survival and development of their communities, supports their efforts to preserve their Hungarians, enforce their individual and community rights, establish their community governments, thrive in the homeland, and promote their cooperation with each other and Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, The existence of minorities and peripherals in isolation for many decades is the primary threat of ethnic decay, which has lasted for more than a century in the case of Hungarians. The sporadic members of the Hungarian nation, whose number is now between 200,000 and one million people, are the most at risk of preserving their national identity. Their relationship with the motherland and their cross-border counterparts in territorial units has been difficult. They do not form a coherent community, so their opportunities to manifest themselves not only in public education but also in their everyday life, their workplaces, their cultural and religious lives, but also in their families are constantly being reduced. Their isolation and reduction in their ability to assert interests will lead to further fragmentation of their remaining national relations. Assimilation processes are strengthened around them as a result of daily compulsive experience, struggle or even cumbersome commitment of birth to another. The integration processes have unchangeable and natural laws. However, we should be aware that we can further strengthen the processes that threaten the identity of our sporadic fellow nations by possible omissions, by turning away, or even worse, by our deliberate rejection. For this reason, we would like to emphasise in particular that Hungarians living far from the body of the majority Hungarian nation are not alone in their struggle to preserve their identity, they can always count on our country, Hungary's support in exercising their rights and preserving their culture. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. for questions and from 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and then the Parliament finishes today's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It was Sunday at the Fidesz Congress, and I sincerely looked forward to what the party that has been governing the country for 11 years has offered the country, what it thinks about the country, what it thinks about governance, what it thinks about the most important problems affecting Hungarian people. It turned out that they didn't deal with the opposition much more than the problems of the people, the problems of the country, but in the last eleven years, it wasn't the opposition on the government, it was the Fidesz. Although the opposition has already achieved its first success by being united six months before the elections and showing strength, Fidesz has already started a panic-like division, but it is too late and too little. It was also apparent at the Fidesz Congress that democracy was only found in traces. There was no demand for questions, votes against or abstentions. This is probably how they imagine the operation of the country: no questions, no objections, just follow the leader. Well, that's not the kind of Hungary we imagine. The Dialogue and the opposition did not choose their leader in this way, but with an open democratic process, the pre-election, where not a thousand delegates, but more than 860,000 voters chose and said who would be the opposition's joint prime minister candidate. In view of its content, this convention was deplorable, no wonder one of the Fidesz Members, one of the Fidesz mayors, said that the answers to the unpleasant questions had not yet come from the Fidesz Center. Well, I must disappoint you, they won't; here in Parliament, we don't get any meaningful answers to our unpleasant questions. This speech will be answered only by slips and lies. The Prime Minister did not answer any unpleasant questions in his speech to Congress: what about health, what about education, what about the needy, what about climate protection, what about the rule of law? What about the health situation where one of the most people still dies in Covid, and it is not the fault of the health workers; where the number of cancers increased dramatically because of the screenings that were absent during the epidemic, what will happen to these people, what will happen to these patients? Or, regardless of the epidemic, what about the growing waiting lists? What about education, where all the surveys show that our children's abilities are getting worse? When will schools develop skills and skills that prepare our children for teamwork, group work, for the future? When will the teachers be properly paid? What will happen to the needy who work, but can't support their families properly, because housing and skyrocketing inflation take away their entire salary? What about climate protection, environmental values? What about our great lakes, other than being cemented and built into everything? By 2030, they want to achieve 90 percent carbon neutrality with the Paks, which is not only dangerous, it's not only expensive, but the thing is, it won't be built until then. It's completely frivolous. The Prime Minister also did not mention that it was his rule of law where people who disagree with the government are being monitored and listened to and then used for political purposes. [[11.10]] There are no answers and no programs. This intellectual task could not be jumped. But there are one-word slogans and lies. We know who to be afraid of. We also know who to hate because Fidesz has been mismanaging for the last 11 years. On the other hand, the opposition's joint programme offers solutions to these problems. The common fund is not looking for who to blame or hate, but for what concrete measures are needed in health care, in education, in order to live in a more livable Hungary. According to the Dialogue, we need a government that is not the main enemy of Brussels, LGBTQ or Soros, but of vulnerability, poverty and poverty. The voters will decide next year. After this convention, it is clear that a democratic, human-centred government or a government that is always blaming others, which is unable to solve the problems that really affect Hungarian people, will be decided. Simple choice. Thank you for the floor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause?]]
u2021-11-15-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to the speaker's speech before the agenda will be given by Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I understand you're disturbed by yesterday's congress because you've seen a strong political community. We have the advantage of having a strong leader in a political community or in a government. Don't blame us for your leader putting together a one-percent party, and on top of that, he's tired of what he's doing. Don't take that out on us. As far as the performance of the last 11 years is concerned, the Prime Minister has made clear what the main results are: continuous economic growth of 4-5 percent, and that we are now coming out of the epidemic, which also means that we will return to the growing path. The family support system has never been more diverse than it is now. As for the situation of those in need, he referred to them. For them, jobs are offered and offered by this government, which is why unemployment has decreased by a third, and the price of affordable energy is the cost reduction that you oppose and attack and, for example, the release of foreign currency loans. In your time, in the time of left-wing governance, the rate of foreign currency loans increased 40 times. This was the government that led it out, which is important because foreign currency lending in itself has contributed significantly to the growth of poverty in the period of left-wing governance. As for health care, I ask you to look at the figures, look at the budget lines, and you will see that we spend 1700 billion forints more on healthcare than in 2010. This is not just an abstract number, because behind it, for example, 91 hospitals have been renewed, while there is a wage increase programme in health care, I do not say that you wouldn't dare to dream about it, because you took your wages, you didn't think about starting such a wage increase program, and the doctors' wages have doubled after a previous wage increase programme, while nurses have received a 72 percent increase overall, and we have also led to the gratuity money, which has been a very heavy burden in health for decades. So, if you didn't hear at the convention about the results of this government and the results of the work of the country and millions of people, I have to say, you've been watching the wrong show. You vow to govern well. But what we could expect during a possible left-wing government is more than anything else shown by the trouble surrounding City Hall. This is where Gergely Christmas promised grandiose parks the day after her election. Well, public park, that's not it, but there's something else. Some businesses have started to move in order to acquire the real estate associated with the Town Hall. There have also been consultations with the people of the Metropolitan Municipality, so these are intentions which are not independent of the intention and will of the left-wing city administration. Gergely Christmas, your party president and mayor, in the first few days, reacted rather sluggishly, denied everything, said that there was nothing to see here, and then a few days passed, and it turned out that it was not by chance that there were negotiations, so much that the head of the trustee, if I understand correctly, could receive disciplinary action. Let me ask you, honourable Member, if there is nothing to see here, if you have previously denied it, then why is the manager of the trustee being disciplined? This case tells us everything about the left and the real intentions of the left. There is work to be done in Budapest, there is only business to be done: transport organisation, improvement of public safety, improvement of public cleanliness, I could say, but this is not what they do. Just like they did before 2010. Under the left-wing governments, 190 state-owned companies were thrown for tobacco, typically foreigners, and political blood had to be sweated to bring back Hungarian ownership to more than 50 percent of the strategic industries. We didn't do this all these years to get the left to come again, and you're gonna take it back. Honourable Congressman, Actually, we don't know how much Gergely Christmas actually works. We don't even know how bored the capital's leadership is. Therefore, we do not really know that he was aware of the preparations for privatisation, because he may not have known it at all. A lot of people might feel like they wouldn't notice if the DK guys moved the chair out of their office. He might not even notice that. Either way, honourable Member, if you really are serious about responsible politicalisation and the protection of public funds, you must immediately stop the privatisation manoeuvres. Home is not for sale, national assets are not for sale, and City Hall is not for sale. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has applied for a speech from the LMP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Whether we like it or not, the governments of each country must acknowledge that climate change is here, speeding up and that we have to deal with ever-increasing repercussions. Extreme weather conditions affect our health, headaches, vascular diseases, blood pressure fluctuations, and in many ways, but they also have a serious impact on our economy and our environment. The latter has not been mentioned very much, but I am sure that we will hear many times in the near future that climate change and the drastic reduction of biodiversity are hand in hand and are strengthening each other. Unfortunately, the Glasgow climate summit has not brought a breakthrough, and I am convinced that such meetings will not happen until each country's government understands that it is time to act and that the worsening climate crisis must be taken seriously. Unfortunately, the emission reduction commitments after Glasgow are not in line with the Paris agreement. The voluntary national commitments so far to reduce greenhouse gases by 2030 only ensure that by the end of the century, the average temperature will rise by 2.4 degrees Celsius rather than the necessary 1.5 degrees above the pre-industrial period. [[11.20]] This means, ladies and gentlemen, that national commitments must be taken much, much more seriously in order to combat climate change. Even Viktor Orbán has to accept this, the constant denial, the brunsching does not lead to anything. To refer to yesterday's speech, not the bun is small, but the planet we're overusing will be destroyed. We are now approaching the use of two planets of resources by mankind. Encouraging energy saving, striving for economic use would be in the best interests of all of us, even of yours, if they could think ahead and not just move you into the interests of the momentary political gain, the interests of their economic interests. While János Áder shined the climate targets and expected steps of the Orbán government at the climate summit, the latest climate change performance index in 2022 gave an insufficient rating to Hungary's climate policy. Germanwatch, NewClimate Institute and CAN analysed the relationship between national climate plans and emissions, examined four main categories: greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy production, energy use and climate policy. The result tells us everything: Hungary is ranked 53rd in the overall ranking of the 64 countries examined. For each category, this is the following: greenhouse emissions are 45th, renewable energy is 44th, energy is 51st and climate policy is 59th. In addition to Slovenia, Hungary has proved to be the worst performing EU Member State this year. There is no reason to be surprised, of course, because the government has passed the law that it is thinking of a reduction target of only 40 per cent by 2030, that is, by 2030 it merely wants to reach the level that we had already achieved in 2013. Since 2014, CO2 emissions have been on the growth path, and at this rate, of course, climate neutrality will not be achieved by 2050. Wind energy continues to be banned, the green surface is only destroyed, there is no complex building energy program, which would result in a real reduction in the cost for families. The second draft action plan for the Framework Strategy on Climate Change is also slipping because they are negotiating with the European Union, and they want to wait for us to do something when there is money. From this we see that this is important to you, if there is money, if there is no money, then it is not. No progress has been made in the area of adaptation. We still can't see how the government intends to prepare for heat waves, droughts or lightning floods. The LMP reiterates its call for the government to review the climate bill adopted by the majority of governments last year, face the seriousness of the problem and re-enlist ambitious targets to the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2021-11-15-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to start with what we agree is that action must really be taken against climate change; it is not talk, it is not talk, it is not Facebook post, it is not fake action, it is real action that is needed, honourable Member. So allow me to make a short and parentheses comment right now, because it is not an empty chatter that is needed, but real actions, and when the left should not only talk about combating climate change, but also do something, he will fail again and again in the first steps, honourable Member. Look at what's happening in the capital, where you're in power, where you have a mayor who wants to call you green, but everything you're doing is going against the directions that are about protecting our environmental heritage. It doesn't collect, it produces garbage, it removes 25 percent of public dumpsters in Budapest; it eliminates 154-year-old Main Gardens of all kinds! without coordination; does nothing but write Facebook posts and organize climate circles. From this, honourable Member, and we can agree on this, you have also talked about action, and it will not be better in Budapest, Hungary or anywhere in the world. And we can also see that while you're talking about the need for a public park at City Hall, you're about to sell it under a real estate joint. [[Dr. Tamás Belling laughs.]] That is the performance of the left, honourable Member. On the other hand, it is clear and clear that we do not want to talk about this issue, but to take real action. Hungary has therefore committed itself to becoming a climate neutral Member State by 2050. Congresswoman, you have not voted in favour of this law, let alone in the world, even in Europe, a small number of countries have done so. You have done nothing here but talk, talk, talk, talk, and when you had the opportunity, as one of the first European countries, to really set an ambitious target and set it in law, you have voted against this bill; as you have voted against the parliamentary resolution which you have otherwise submitted, but then you have considered yourself, which would also have been about the necessary measures and the necessary tasks. It's coming out of the bag, Your Honour. You really don't want to act, you want to talk about this and get as much political support as possible. Congresswoman, this is a wrong decision, this is a wrong attitude to the issue. We need real action, and we would be happy if you could do your part in cities, Budapest, or even here in Parliament, you would personally support those cases, support programmes that actually contribute to reducing emissions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know that Hungary is already a climate champion, and in reality we have ambitious objectives, we have ambitious targets in international comparison, and we also set these objectives in legislation. In Hungary, CO2 emissions per capita are the sixth best value among EU Member States, the greenhouse gas emissions of the Hungarian energy industry decreased by 31 percent between 2010 and 2019, and in addition, we have been able to reduce emissions in recent years by increasing the performance of the economy, with the exception of now 2020. There are few such countries in the world, and such countries cannot be listed, honourable Member. And we do have an argument about it, I see that with you, with the left, and with Brussels, who has to pay the costs of climate change, because we believe that it cannot be done for Hungarian people, that it cannot be paid for by Hungarian people, and that it must be financed by large companies that are destroying climate. And that's why it's outrageous that your presidential candidate has joined that choir, joined the left-wing Gyurcsányist policy that wants to make people pay again. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Wants to increase rising energy costs and people's overhead costs over and over again. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, To speak before the agenda from the DK Group, Mr Lajos Oláh has applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The epidemiological situation in Hungary is becoming increasingly worrying, the daily data has been getting worse since the April peak, the seven-day slippery average has risen sharply since mid-October, the five-percent positive test recommendation recommended by WHO has long been in the past, and the 12.5% percentage you said before was well above 30 percent on 10 October. On the one hand, this suggests that the new delta variant, even if it does not cause a much more serious disease, is much more contagious than before, and on the other hand it is clear and you and we say that vaccination is important and effective, but it is not enough in terms of protection, it cannot be a successful defence without trust. [[11.30]] At the Fidesz Congress yesterday, you have bound people to participate in this event to an immunity certificate. You were right to do this! At the same time, we have seen that you have introduced classes without immunity certificates and vaccination papers to the hunting exhibition; you are entering classes, traveling without immunity certificate to watch the Gyurcsány film. It is important for you to keep the participants of the Fidesz Congress safe, but you are not interested in the fate of Hungarian children, because they have been collected without a protection certificate and without a mask in these places. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You're all sitting here in masks. Then why don't they just say it, and why don't they just stand out, so you don't go, and you don't fold our kids into the Gyurcsány movie without a mask? ! Are you only interested in your own health? They're fine here in masks, but otherwise they don't tell you to wear masks and make them mandatory in some places. You're safe, and that's enough for you. There are 40 people here, and we are sitting in masks, and by the way, when a class of children, 40 of them, are sent to the cinema, they do not prescribe the mask, my fellow Members. The basis for dealing with this epidemic is trust, but how can you earn that trust if you say different things every week? Once it is said that Austria is seen as a starting point, and when it turns out that the Austrians are constantly testing, Viktor Orbán no longer cares what the Austrians are doing. When there was little death, Viktor Orbán said that the results of the disease management should be seen in the number of dead, and then when Hungary became the world leader in proportion to the population, this was not exciting either. In Romania, unlike Hungary, the various effects of all Covid vaccinations have been made public about what this looks like for vaccinees and which vaccinations. You didn't do that! Minister Kásler gave me some data in a conversation, but he did not publish the research on which these things are based. The mayors are trying to get all kinds of data from you in order to get it from the government in order to protect the CDC. You're not doing that. I myself have written several times to members of the government, and some of you have answered when I asked how many dead people are in the territory of a given municipality, what vaccinations they have; how many have been vaccinated once or twice or three times; how many are in quarantine; how many have lost their jobs. This would help the people who live there, because the municipality could help them. You're hiding these things, you're not telling me. I asked to go and visit a Covid hospital, a Covid class. I've indicated that I'm wearing all the necessary protective equipment, and I'm vaccinated, so I'm okay with everything. Romania, Dunaszerhely, but from Austria to Finland, there is no problem to let the media or even the representatives in there! You keep secrets, you refuse to let media representatives in there, and believe me, that would help more people be willing to stand up. Dear Government, Please immediately make public the number of people who died, the number of people in quarantine, the number and vaccinations they received; the number of people who were hospitalized with which vaccinations. All research into this is to be made public immediately. Mr. Kásler should not search for the ancestors of the Hungarians now, but publish the research on this. Allow the media to show a real picture of the Covid classes, hospitals, to the public. Trust me, this is the CDC. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It'll also help you defend yourself. Thank you for listening. Thank you for your patience.
u2021-11-15-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, has responded to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, A very important issue, the case of the protection against the Crown Virus, has been brought before this House, and I would therefore like to describe in detail the position of the government in this regard. First of all, however, I would like to make it clear that I think it is quite amazing that you are still trying to make party policy issues about the control of the coronal virus, not as a national issue. You've done this in the last year and a half when you've taken the lead in the anti-vaccination campaign, and when you've been instigating people against Eastern vaccines. I don't know, you remember, Congressman, it may be quite unpleasant for you, but it is still a category of fact that you were the ones who launched a petition against the Eastern vaccines, which millions of Hungarians have received, and probably tens of thousands of people's lives have been saved with the help of these vaccines. Mr. Lajos Korózs is sitting in your benches, and with your support, the head of the Health Commission, who produced kamuvido and fake news, fake news, fake paramedics, to make the defense look bad. The problem, Mr President, is that your speech has not been out of line, so you have not been able to go beyond your anti-vaccination approach at that time. For you, it is much more important from the political calculation that the epidemic hits Hungary, because they are trying to make political capital for themselves, rather than being busy trying to convince as many people as possible to inject themselves voluntarily, or to get through the fourth wave of the coronal virus epidemic as far as possible, which is taking place throughout Western Europe. In our view, it is not primarily a threat to the inoculated, but a threat to the uninoculated. Our view is that vaccination is not the basic solution to the epidemic, not the closure and restrictions. Accordingly, Hungary was one of the first countries in Europe to have administered two vaccines to more than half of the adult population and we were the first to have a third vaccine in Europe. The number of vaccinees will now reach 6 million people, including more than 5.7 million who received the second vaccine; and the number of vaccinees who received the third vaccine is constantly increasing, and we have now lost 1.5 million dynamically. In our view, each vaccine is good; the rate of relapse of both vaccinees is below 1 percent. Indeed, the situation is serious, because the delta variant spreads faster and causes more serious illness. New measures have therefore been put in place since November to combat the epidemic and increase vaccination. Employers may require vaccination against the coronal virus as a condition for working. This will be enforced by the state as an employer, and the mayor of the municipalities will decide the same. Once again, we have to wear a mask on the Community's means of transport and we have imposed a visitation ban in health institutions. You obviously want to distinguish between right-wing events and left-wing events. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] You think what you can't do at a right-wing event is okay with a left-wing event. I cannot accept this party-political distinction. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the emergence of new virus mutants justifies strengthening the immune defense of those who received vaccination early among the first. The third vaccine is also voluntary and free of charge. We have launched a separate vaccination operation for the uninoculated elderly; we have organized a school vaccination campaign for students aged 12-18 years. In the autumn season, we launched another vaccination-promoting campaign with public actors, doctors and academics, although we could see it on your side. Between 22-28 November, the government will launch another vaccination week at the hospital injection points, with increased vaccination capacity and no appointments. And I just want to ask you when you are finally willing to withdraw your parliamentary proposal against Eastern vaccines from the House. Until they do, the things you've raised cannot be taken seriously. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-15-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! From the MSZP Group, Mr Tamás Harangozó applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Imagine a country where a devastating pandemic rages, where 30,000 people die in the epidemic, and doctors, nurses, social workers, soldiers, thousands of policemen struggled day after day working overtime to protect their countrymen's lives and health. [[11.40]] Imagine, there are some people in this country who use this period to make a profit in terms of protection and its costs, to acquire fabulous, billionaire wealth. Yes, you can see that, my fellow Members, this is Hungary, their national cooperation system. I will give you and your kind voters two concrete examples of what has been going on here in the last year. The first is Daniel Martos, the IX. Head of the Fidesz Group of the District, Chairman of the Commission, Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Trust, who in August last year, when the masses of companies were destroyed, thousands of people were on the streets, and he felt that the time had come to establish Minerva's Consulting Ltd. It didn't take long to succeed: last November, Kásler's Ministry paid 3.1 billion forints from him. ! , Annex IX He was involved in a district parking scandal and had to get Covid tests from the Fidesz politician's consulting firm who controlled the real estate doghouse there for HUF 3.1 billion. Since then, in February this company was rewritten by this fine young man from Rakaca named Martin, whose grandmother, according to press reports, said that she spent 19 in March, and it has not done anything good since she was a child. Grandma said that she doesn't think she's running this company's granddaughter. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the small case. The bigger case is the purchase of the 16,000 respirators for 300 billion forints, from which 1600 were actually used, the rest are stored in warehouses for 90 million forints a month, they were unable to sell any of them, and the Secretary of State, wherever he goes, donates some of them to some countries. We're looking at the results of the Fourcardinal company, and they only got 1,000 out of the 16,000. Here's the numbers, okay? This company increased its sales revenue by 216 times in one year, 513 times its profits, and the owners took out HUF 15.9 billion as a taxed profit at the end of the year. Do you know who they are? There is a young woman named Beatrix, in her 20s, who connects to this circle through her mother, Zsuzsa Rahói, Viktor Orbán's chief advisor, and she alone took HUF 13.8 billion out of this acquisition. The other half, the remaining 10 percent, landed at Silk Road Fund Zrt. The leader of this is Márk Szemerényi, whose brother in Bajon is well-known as Ivonn Szemerényi, an ambassador appointed by Péter Szijjjártó, whose husband, László Szabó, is the head of Mediaworks, whom Mr. Palkovics has just worked so well today to appoint the Minister for the Hungarian pharmaceuticals case. It's a scandal on its own. But let me quote you on what it's compared to Not from you, but from your fellow Member, your fellow Member in Bács County, who escaped the virus in a miraculous way. When I was at the Kiskunhalas Epidemic Hospital, ICU, ITO, they told me about it afterwards, because I couldn't have any of these personal experience that there were 40 of us at the same time in that class, two of us survived. We don't know why anyone's left, I don't, and we're not talking about creating centres in the country's university hospitals who will know how to handle this special ECMO device. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the shortness of time, I cannot read the whole quote, but the Member made it clear that this lung machine saved his life. Let me give you another piece of information. Hungaropharma Zrt. Thanks to his offer, Heim Pál Hospital obtained its first ECMO machine worth 17 million HUF. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, the 16,000 machines were bought for as much as this machine would cost, which your own fellow Member said was hardly in the country. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And it could save people's lives. The only question I have is doesn't it sink from shame? ! I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-11-15-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know, Congressman, there are two kinds of attitudes. One attitude is ours. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Which one is it?]] When people's lives are to be saved, we'll go to the farthest country in the world. [[Moray from the opposition benches.]] And for whatever it's worth, we buy hand sanitizer, mask, tests, respirator, lung and anything else to save the lives of Hungarians, and when there are enough for ten million Hungarians, we also try to help Hungarians across the border. And there is your attitude, which, in all of this, I see only materialism is important to you, and your position is constantly changing. You just said why there are so many ventilators. [[A statement from the opposition: That is not what he said!]] What did they say a long time ago? Why there aren't enough ventilators. They missed why Hungary doesn't have respirators. In fact, Hungary has been over-confidenced with lightning speed compared to other European countries, and the fact that we did not have to use these ventilators, let us thank God that we did not have enough patients to use all the ventilators in Hungary. But this question, honourable Member, was answered by the head of the WHO when he said that Hungary clearly made the right choice when it was over-confiding itself with protective equipment, because it would be more than a hundred or a thousand ventilators, honourable Member, than three or ten or a hundred or two thousand less. They'd rather be in the warehouse than miss hospitals from their intensive care units. You know, honourable Member, there have been months and a half in the last year and a half when all the countries in the world, all the hospitals, all the ministries of health, all the State Departments, everyone wanted to buy the same thing, breathing machines, protective equipment, hand sanitizers, and there could be a list of protective devices, certain medicines that have also helped those involved in the epidemic, and we were happy to find them somewhere in the world. With what deadline has the European Union agreed to purchase us air ventilators in joint procurement? 12 months with a one-year deadline! What would you have told people in the hospital in a month or two? So, please, the Union will deliver in ten months? We said that we didn't wait for this, but we stepped out ourselves, and the world's largest cargo plane landed here at Ferihegy airport, as it rarely does at other airports, and brought protective equipment from other continents, across the world. Indeed, it was the right decision that the government, when the life of the Hungarian people was the most important, did not measure the amount of resources for this, but said that it was a completely open budget from above. There was no financial barrier to defence, there was no instrument, there was no money that we did not mobilise to preserve the health and life of Hungarian people, and I think we have made the right decision. I do not think, Congressman, that we should calculate how much a Hungarian person's life means, that it is worth a hundred thousand forints, one million forints, ten million or thirty million forints. I do not think that in any way the right logic is what the Hungarian left has said here in Parliament, that we should have calculated how much a person's life is worth and that no more should be spent on it. All life mattered to us, we took responsibility for every Hungarian embe. And you forgot to tell me, honourable Member, that when the City Hall in Budapest had just received money from György Soros for the control of the epidemic, the fact that, not, the health minister of the Bajnai government, Ágnes Horváth, the successor of Tamás Székely, landed at Kelen Kórház Kft. and suddenly increased its turnover and profits. Why do you forget to report this, honourable Member, when it comes to how people have defended themselves during the epidemic? I think you should look into yourselves first. First of all, this shameful rhetoric, that it costs too much to save the lives of Hungarian people, I think it would be better for them to forget, because I don't think anyone can identify with that. Yes, every man's life matters. On the other hand, it would be good for you to consider how long you want to maintain your parliamentary resolution proposal, which is still on the Parliament's list, in which you would ban Eastern vaccines. DK has already deleted the petition from its website to collect signatures to ban Eastern vaccines, but you here in Parliament have not yet withdrawn this decision. You might want to stop playing that one day there's a lot of breathing machines for you, and the next day there's not enough, and then there's a lot more, and then there's a lot more. The government, on the other hand, tried to move fast, we were the first to create the operational tribe, we were among the first to achieve the 25 percent graft, we were among the first to achieve the 50 percent graft. In the European Union, we were among the first countries to start the vaccination campaign, and we were the first to open up the possibility of a third vaccination for everyone. [[11.50]] I think you can't find another country in the world that would have made such an increase in medical wages during the epidemic period, would have continued the increase in nursing wages during the epidemic period, precisely so that the lives of the Hungarian people would be safe, because there was and will never be an upper financial limit. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-15-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Róbert Dudás applied to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The title of my speech before the agenda is: What is the next step on the part of the government and when? For the first time more than a month ago, I spoke about the price of fuel, its drastic increase and its drastic impact on society. Both my speeches, my proposals for decisions, petitions, demonstrations, everything we've been through for the past month and a half... hoping that the government will sooner or later take a step, if not brave, but necessary, because perhaps it would have been brave if, say, with Croatia, it had done so a long time ago. We hoped that the government would do so, and I cannot go by it, so that, first of all, I could thank you for the fact that this step was made. At the same time, however, this step has not yet been resolved. This step is not the first, the zeroth step, in order to achieve a real, real solution. What's the solution? As I said, I submitted several proposals for a resolution and we submitted them. At present, there are two before the Parliament, and it is waiting for it to come before the commission. By the way, I would ask you to support this with your vote. The first is to help you go to work. At the present 15 forints, let's finally raise the cost of going to work to 30 forints. This would make life easier for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers, and it is essential that we touch this. The other is the tax reduction. In particular, we asked the government to contact the European Commission to discuss excise duty and VAT, to reduce excise duty and to allow VAT to be transferred to a preferential VAT base. Why is that necessary? Because we can say that the prices in Hungary have reached the EU average and that level, because we can refuel in Austria for the same amount as in Hungary. Food prices have also reached the EU level, we can buy food in Austria for the same price as in Hungary, but the biggest problem is that the wages in Hungary have not been caught up, but have been extremely cut off. If I mentioned Austria, let me also mention that the average salary in Austria is three and a half times the average salary in Hungary. This is why tax reductions are needed. There are two things, many things, but I would mention two things, in which we have preceded Europe, and I can even say that we have overcome the European Union: inflation and VAT. The highest inflation rate for the European Union is in inflation in Hungary, of course the euro exchange rate in the sky, which, in turn, goes hand in hand with each other, and in terms of VAT, we are in the company of prominent countries at the very end of the rankings of the world countries such as Myanmar and Djibouti. Well, that is why it is necessary for preferential VAT to be combated, both in terms of fuel and otherwise in terms of basic food prices, because 20-30 or even 40 percent of the price is or will soon be increased in certain areas. But back for a short time to freeze fuel prices. We were curious to see when and how fuel prices would be frozen, and we didn't have to be disappointed, because we could see a typical Fidesz measure: they give the burden to others and place it on others. Let me give you another example. When businesses were assisted last year, and as it stands, 1 percent of their business tax is released, it did not cost the State anything, but the municipalities have been burdened and burdened with it to this day and make it impossible. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: They got that money afterwards.]] At present, retail prices have been frozen, which is very good for the population, but could be a very big problem for fuel wells. I'd like to ask you not to speculate. We know that MOL is in the background, and by the way, whatever fuel well is forced to close will be nationalized, and otherwise it will be in this circle. Don't speculate, because this isn't a game. I ask you to raise the cost of working from HUF 15 to HUF 30, to negotiate with the European Commission, so that it is possible to reduce taxes, excise duties and VAT, and to do so without ruining anyone. In the past 10 to 11 years, freedom fighting has been announced on a number of issues. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and told us that they are fighting a freedom fight with the European Union. Well, that's the question, which is, if you can't do it on trial, you have to fight for freedom. Let's go! [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-15-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to Mr President's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Well, you guys did submit a parliamentary resolution proposal on November 10th. You're forgetting to talk about some of it. In this proposal for a decision, you proposed that the government freeze the fuel prices at HUF 500, as the retail price published by the NAV in November was over HUF 500. Two, in this parliamentary resolution, it was proposed that the government freeze it by 31 December. What did the government do? He made a more favourable decision: he maximized the prices in 480 forints and extended this freeze not until 31 December, but for three months, so until mid-February. At the time when this parliamentary resolution was filed, it didn't bother you how the wells would be affected. Of course, in your speech, you've already bothered him. Well, that's your attitude. That's one of the questions. The other question is: I think that the government has made a very wise and good economic policy decision; much better than the Croatians you mentioned. The Croatians maximized the fuel price in HUF 539, Hungary's Government is HUF 480 and the fuel price is HUF 50 per litre cheaper from the Croatians. That's one of the questions. The second is that the Croatians have frozen the fuel price for 30 days. Now, at Thursday's government meeting, it's been extended for another 30 days. The Hungarian government, I have already mentioned, has done this for 90 days. So the Hungarian government has also made a very positive decision at international level, which affects the population in the first place. It is clear that this decision had to be taken, since it also affects inflation, reduces inflation and reduces the burden on the population. As far as the tax issue is concerned, the Hungarian government has no shame in this. The only government in the European Union that reduced the excise duty on fuels by 5 and 10 HUF per litre in April. You are asking in the proposal for a decision to negotiate with the European Union. We are, of course, constantly doing this, but these negotiations are ineffective. The European Union, as Hungary is subject to the lowest excise duty on fuels in Europe, is asking Hungary to increase excise duty, whereas the Hungarian government is not increasing excise duty. And the same question with VAT. With regard to VAT, the European Union does not allow a specific VAT rate to be set for fuels. Honourable Congressman, Allow one statistical figure for fuels: In 2004, 362 litres were purchased for the average salary, 415 litres in 2010 and nearly 600 litres for the average income in 2021. This means that the main point of Hungarian economic policy is that the greatest fight against inflation is to increase income and to combat higher price increases with higher incomes. No one approves of high inflation and price increases. [[12.00]] Finally, allow me a political confrontation. First of all, I'd like to confront your current political boss. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] With the actions of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Even if you laugh, you are in league with them; you have to see what he did when he was on the wheel. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You stepped back for each other.]] He didn't give me the 13th month pension, he didn't give me the pension premium. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and real wages have not increased, as in Hungary since 2013, but have just decreased. I was taken from people by Ferenc Gyurcsány. Or look at the current, I don't know who; I don't know, you've met a Mr.Péter Márki-Zay, who is supposed to be your Prime Minister's candidate. Sit down and speak politically. 'Cause you know what he says? It means that price regulation is in the communist system, and Péter Márki-Zay says that there is no need to reduce the rent in Hungary. First negotiate politically, then demand from this government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Földi of the KDNP Group, the notary of the Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, When you're young, you feel like you're living forever. Even if they tell him you'll see it, when you get old, he'll believe it, and he won't. Then you grow up not only in the flesh but also in the soul, your work, your family, you'll have a lot of joy and trouble. First the days get wings, then a week goes by without even realizing it. Later, the months and the years go by as fast trains. And as our work and family completes our lives, we realize that it is nothing but a Creator and that no one exists forever. This is the moment when we really begin to appreciate the joys of life. That is when every minute we spend with our loved ones, friends, or creative work, a relaxing hobby becomes irreplaceable to us. We need the cooperation of interrelated age groups, the whole nation now, in the era of epidemics, illegal migration and rapid technological changes even more than ever before. Our common goal is not only to prolong the lives of young people, but also to improve their quality of life. Elders should be given the respect and respect they deserve, for they have earned it. We, the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP are working with the government for this. We remember that the MSZP has reduced the value of pensions in government positions, and even its specific amount. Among other things, Jobbik did not vote in favour of women retiring after 40 years of employment. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We remember him, and the country remembers him. As opposed to the opposition, in 2010, the civilian government undertook to protect the value and purchasing power of pensions, i.e. that pension will not be worth less. That's what we did. We have taken a number of measures to improve the situation of older people, which have visible results. We're constantly raising pensions. In the form of additions, corrections, bonuses, vouchers and other benefits, we also benefit young people from the success of the economy. We're gonna rebuild the 13th month pension that the left took from the rightholder. In these days, each person receiving 2.5 million pensions or pension benefits will receive a maximum pension premium of HUF 80,000 in addition to the increased amount of benefits. This represents a total of HUF 200 billion in additional revenue for those affected. Even the lowest pension recipients are entitled to a pension premium of HUF 80,000, so a person receiving an average pension can expect an additional income of approximately HUF 100,000 in November, as we also pay the pension supplement. Dear House, In conclusion, since the change of government in 2010, the elderly can expect that, as long as there is civil government in Hungary, they will be appreciated in words and actions and their efforts will be recognised. Measures affecting pensioners also show that the government's primary objective is to ensure the long-term sustainability of the social security pension system by applying sound economic policy, and to preserve the benefits established and respect for pensioners. Why are we doing this? Why are we following this policy? Because everything older people know about life is precious, important to society. Young people need to learn from the elderly, because the youth cult on the shore is leading nowhere. They know the password: young men to battle, old men to council! At the same time, young people should also be careful to follow and understand the world's changes according to their opportunities and abilities to keep their spirit fresh and to help the inexperienced youth. So I'm also asking my fellow elders from this place to tell them, if they can, about their memories, the old days, the family, the work, history. Give one generation to another that treasure, because it is also a token of the survival of Hungarians. And there can be nothing more important for young, old, government and opposition. It would be welcome if we could at least agree on that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the Member's speech before the agenda will be given by Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you for bringing this important question here to the Parliament meeting. Dear House, It is our duty to honor the elderly. This is important because they are the ones who have built the country with their work over the past decades, kept their families together, raised their children; I am also used to saying that everything we have, everything that surrounds us, has been inherited from them. We all remember that not all governments had that view, not all governments had that attitude. Before 2010, during the period of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, they only promised to the pensioners, but with the decisions they made, they were impoverished and abandoned. During that period, just to refresh our memories, pensioners took away their 13th month pension, constantly reduced the purchasing value of pensions, they wanted to tax pensions, and we, the government that took office after 2010, stopped it, and they raised the overhead. We remember that they tripled the price of gas and doubled the price of electricity, putting the elderly in a very difficult position. Dear Parliament, Since 2010, there has been a different kind of governance in Hungary, with families and older people at the heart of our policy. The pensioners and I concluded an agreement in 2010 that, as long as Hungary has a national government, as the Member said, the purchasing value of their pensions will remain. Over the past few years, we have proved that we are true, since the purchasing value of pensions has not only remained, but has increased by more than 10 percent since 2010. Over the past four years, pensioners have received hundreds of billion HUF extra payments: pensioners have also benefited from economic success in 2017-2018-2019. On Christmas 2016 and 17th, and on Easter 2018 Erzsébet's voucher and in September 2019, all pensioners received a return certificate worth HUF 9000. In the framework of the Women's 40, more than 320,000 women could retire until July 2021 after 40 years of eligibility. Retirementers could save a considerable amount of money through multiple cuts in the overhead, and now we are going to protect the low energy prices achieved by reducing the cost of electricity. Dear House, The measures clearly show that we do not believe in austerity. We didn't take it during the plague, we gave it. Thanks to the government's actions, we have successfully re-launched the economy, and we believe it is important for the elderly to benefit from economic success in this period as well. [[12.10]] The government has decided that this year we will be able to pay the pension premium higher than ever before to pensioners and pension recipients. On 11 November, Posta began to deliver the HUF 80,000 pension premium, together with the pension supplement and the increased pension. Those who received the benefit to their bank accounts also transferred this amount to them on November 12. It is important to note here that not only the 2.1 million old-age pension beneficiaries receive the pension premium of HUF 80,000, but the nearly 400 thousand people who receive pension-like benefits such as disability benefits, orphanage or widow's pension. In addition, last year we started to rebuild the 13th month pension previously taken by the left, and the performance of the economy allows us to pay the entire 13th month pension to the elderly at the beginning of next year. From what I have said, it is clear that the left is always promising, but when they are on the government, such as before 2010, they keep taking away part of the benefits from the elderly and making them poorer. On the other hand, we help and support the elderly. Retirementes can still count on us, and they can still count on us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Fidesz Group, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It's getting more embarrassing what Gergely Christmas is doing with the sale of City Hall. Recently, he referred to a large number of Fake news and press charges, and then suddenly remembered that he had a study prepared for the sale. The mayor went from total denial to partial confession in a few days, but that doesn't add up. He claims that the idea of selling had already been rejected last year, while the manager of the trustee discussed the sale with left-wing investors even in May this year. As it turns out, business circles close to the left-wing coalition leading the capital have taken the first steps, and according to a public contract, a real estate broker has been entrusted to look for a buyer for one of the most valuable properties of the City Council. Northern Rock Kft., a company in the contract as a client. He has a thorough knowledge of offering the property and is referring to good municipal relations. On a recording, where the head of this company, Zsolt Berki, is heard, there is also a recipe: another, XXII. They've already figured out how to sell real estate in the district capital. In this case, we filed a complaint concerning the offence of trafficking at the National Bureau of Investigation, because the recording is clearly about the fact that the 7400 sq m property was assumed to have been placed in the interest of the company of the large contractor on the recording for a bribe paid as an advance of HUF 2 million. Meanwhile, Gansperger Gyula, Gransperger Zrt., connected to Bajnai Gordon, turned out to be another player in the audio material. the leader. Instead of clearing the case, Gergely Christmas took the victim's position and made an old promise: the establishment of the Town Hall Park. But based on another record, it's not all right, the head of the metropolitan trustee is talking about the sale of City Hall and the destruction of the public park after the election. The head of the capital city responsible for the area confirmed his intention to sell 3.9 hectares, as well as the fact that the case had been in the Mayor's Cabinet. The surreal point of the conversation is when the man representing City Hall explains that first the park will be built because it was promised and then in a year's time it will be destroyed and rebuilt, not with his own money, but with the taxpayers' money. And if that wasn't enough, on top of that, it was even mentioned at the meeting that the manager of the trustee could bypass public procurement. Well, congratulations. The worthy heirs of the Demszky-Long Age are the new masters of the City Hall! While Christmases continue to deny and constantly contradict themselves, flee ahead and blame the trustee, the public is waiting for answers, so it is time to clarify some questions. Who commissioned a study to sell City Hall? Who examined the description in it? How much did they spend on preparations, see, for example, study writing? Who authorized the trustee's manager, Balázs Barts, to coordinate the document with market participants? Whose man is Zsolt Berki? What legal basis will you apply for a commission fee for the sale of land sold in an open tender by a metropolitan trustee? The left has a lot of practice in raising taxes and getting rid of his community assets when he's in need of money. We find it intolerable to squander the capital's most valuable monument. We expect an answer to the question of who controls Gergely Christmas, what left-wing business circles hold the Budapest municipality and the mayor in their hands. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President, on behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, has just spoken before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The situation with the City Hall, which is indeed very confusing and raises many questions, must be clarified primarily by the capital and by the General Assembly of the Capital, and I am convinced that the Fidesz-KDNP faction in the Metropolitan Assembly will raise these questions and demand answers. What concerns the Hungarian Parliament and Parliament, in particular, is when and how this reappeared practice, which you have just presented in an exemplary manner, becomes a state crisis. And that this is not impossible, allow me to quote, by the way, from a material compiled by the State Audit Office in 2004, which says:. The coalition agreement of the socialist-liberal government that took office in the summer of 1994 stated that the fundamental method of restructuring its ownership structure and corporate crisis management is privatisation. The preparation and implementation of this should be carried out quickly, as confirmed by the government programme. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In order to revive memory, allow me to say a few words about the consequences of this. In the beginning: after the change of regime, but mostly during the privatisation between 1994 and 1998, then between 2002 and 2010, about half of the public start-up assets privatized in these periods and in this circle disappeared, not even sold; they simply disappeared, devalued, lost their workforce, lost their markets. We are talking less about this, since a large part of the privatisers at the time did not buy a plant, not a job, but a market. During the privatisation process, all natural monopolies, all natural monopolies that are essential for the functioning of a state were brought to the fore: power plants, energy networks, energy suppliers, gas reservoirs, basic mines for the construction industry, brick and tiles industry, domestic steel industry, companies producing mechanical and construction raw materials, banks, insurance companies, financial institutions, the food industry, together with the entire processing vertique, and after 2002, the only major international airport in the country and the cargo business of MÁV. That's what happens when you look at it from the side of the units. When we look at the social policy side of what and who were the biggest losers of this, it is primarily employment, the labour force. Privatization has resulted in the loss of some one million jobs in Hungary, hundreds of thousands of families in hundreds of thousands of families! Whole areas have been crippled for decades! As a result, generations have fallen, work cultures have ceased, traditions that we can't or can't really make up for with much time and money. [[12.20]] The other one is a big loser, and there's not a lot of talk about that, too, about R &amp; D. Now let us say that it is very important and we are trying to make up for it on a large scale, but in research and development, in innovation, this has caused decades of disadvantages. And last but not least, such a loss, such a fundamental social loss, I believe, in the area of privatisation, is a fragmented, terminated vocational education system, the entire physical and professional infrastructure of the vocational education system. To this day, we have not been able to, or can only make up for, these hiatus with very difficult and considerable effort. That is why I ask my fellow Members to monitor what happened around City Hall regardless of party standing, because City Hall is a basic example. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and, in fact, shows a repeat sign of the introduction of previous practice. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I now invite Mr László Földi to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-29	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz; Dóra Dúró, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; János Bencsik, independent; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz; Mária Kállai, Fidesz; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Varju, DK; Anett Bős, DK; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik.
u2021-11-15-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare that Mr András Téglási, President of the National Election Committee, has informed the Speaker of Parliament that the National Election Committee is on 15/2021. In its resolution No.1 it validated the national referendum initiative submitted by the Government on the following issue: . Do you support the promotion of gender conversion treatments for underage children? The Curia has upheld the decision of the National Election Committee. Transcription by the President of the National Election Committee C/17553. can be found on the House's website for all of us. In view of this, the House Rules of Decision 88. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the Speaker appointed a standing committee to submit a proposal for a parliamentary decision on ordering a national referendum. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Tamás Csányi has notified the President of the Parliament of the violation of the immunity of our betterman colleague, Member of Parliament, who has issued this to the Committee on immunity for consideration. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now it's 12:24. We're gonna start questioning. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How and when do you intend to improve the working conditions of workers at the Martfű rescue station? It's an address. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think we can agree that health care in Hungary has been under extra strain in recent years. Perhaps there is no discussion between us that the paramedics and rescue workers have been on duty in the front line of the disease management, and they have fought and are still fighting here to this day. I would also like to thank you for your sacrifice, and we wish you perseverance in the coming, probably much more difficult, period. However, I believe that there is already a debate between us that the current state of health is in line with the 21st century. The expectations of the century. We know from propaganda how much more you have spent on health care than your predecessors, and we will hear it in nice round sentences from the Secretary of State. That's commendable, but not enough. Allow me to give you and this House a specific example from my constituency. I would like to inform you of the state of the rescue station in Martfű, as told by the workers there, as well as of some photographs, which I will give to the Secretary of State with great respect to confirm the truth of what I have to say. The status of the Martfű rescue station needs to be modernised, especially for the floor and the electric grid. The building should be insulated, the furniture of the paramedics' premises should be replaced by the workers there. The municipality, Mr. Secretary of State, provides the building free of charge to the rescue station, but unfortunately it cannot help in solving this problem in a sufficient way, since the financing of municipal tasks is not entirely resolved, as you know very well. That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State how and when they intend to improve the working conditions of workers at the rescue station in Martfű. I think we should find a solution to this together. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-11-15-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We tried to provide sufficient resources for the rescue service, even because during the left-wing government, which wants to return in 22nd, together with you, was indeed the rescue service, and did not buy ambulances in the last year of their government. There was a 26 billion-dollar budget for the rescue service in 2010, this 26 billion increased to 59.9 billion by this year, and next year it will be 65.4 billion forints. This means that we have increased the rescue service budget by two and a half times over the three government cycles. However, health care is in great danger, as you said that we should not increase but reduce the number of health institutions. Imre László specifically said that 45 percent of hospitals are not needed and would be closed. While during your administration, a month's wages were taken from health workers, including paramedics, we tried to raise wages. One paramedic in 2010 had a gross basic wage of 173 thousand forints, now the gross basic wage is not 173 thousand forints, but 502,000 forints. The rescue car drivers had 171 thousand forints for the average gross basic wage, now 452,000 forints. The basic gross salary of the rescue officers was 242 thousand forints, now 595,000 forints. There is therefore a clear rise in wages. In recent years, we have renovated 107 rescue stations and built 34 completely new rescue stations. From 8.3 years to 4.7 years, the average age of ambulances has been reduced to 4.7 years, precisely so that rescue workers can work in ambulances with better financial respect, under better conditions and more modernly equipped. It is not the property of the National Rescue Service and not of the Hungarian state that the Martfű rescue station is, as you indicated, the property of the city. More and more sources are now opening up to the city, most recently on October 28th, the TOP Plus sources. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We hope that the city will use these resources; what can be done, of course, technical assistance will be provided by the rescue service. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Tamás Csányi puts photos on Dr. Bence Rétvári's desk.]]
u2021-11-15-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: When will the wages of social workers reach the average wage level? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Let me begin with a quote from an organization dealing with homeless people on the occasion of the social work day:. Social work is a profession based on trust, personal contact between help and help professionals. Although we sometimes have great results, social professionals know that all the small things we have achieved together with our client are mutual success, which strengthens the helper and helper alike, so they need to be watched, as well as those who do social work. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let's see how the government paid attention to social workers. Let's start with the wage situation, as it is well known that wages in this sector are the lowest among sectors. Today, it turns out that the 20% wage increase is mostly due to the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, as 85 percent of social workers are paid on the basis of a minimum wage, since the wage under the pay table will not change. Just as the gross gross wage of HUF 370 000 is not likely to be reached by those working in the social sector, as 80 percent are classified as having a dream for them. [[12.30]] But did the government pay attention to the situation of social workers as a result of the virus situation? First of all, they did not receive the one-off allowance of HUF 500,000, which the health workers received, although the epidemic also made their situation significantly difficult. They barely received any help when it came to providing adequate protective equipment in time and in sufficient quantity. As it was written on a professional site: the provision of social services without personal contact is almost unthinkable, we are working in a system in which conditions are given to spread the infection, which is aggravated by the lack of protective equipment supply. So the people involved themselves are afraid of another tragedy. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State: when will the wages of social workers reach the average wage level? When and what protective equipment does the State provide in the fourth wave to protect those in the social field, those in care and those working there? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-11-15-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, All good people agree, honourable Member, that the wages of social workers must be increased, but how can a left-wing Member whose party has reduced the wages of social workers rise to speak? ! They took their wages, and then you stand up here in Parliament and you tell me why the wages of social workers don't increase even more. You have only shown me how to reduce the wages of social workers, which I think has not been seen since human memory, and I do not think we will find many European countries and many governments that will reduce the wages of social workers. And then you get up and you say you need more wages? ! Of course, we agree with that basically, but you are the one who is saying that wage reducers say that wages should be raised, honourable Member? ! But let's look at the symbolic issues. We voted here in 2016, in Parliament, on the day of social work, so that this would be a day of high respect for social workers. You voted for that? Neither can you, as did Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Ágnes Kunhalmi, and I would like to mention the list of those who did not even vote for this symbolic step to be the day of social work on 12 November; and now the salary reduction Member, who did not vote on the 12th of November, stands up on the occasion of the holiday and demands a wage increase, honourable Member. But what do we do? From January 1st, wages in the social spheres will rise by 20 percent. The basic wage and the sectoral wage supplement add to the social wage and the combined amount of the two increases, i.e. the basic wage of the workers increased by 20 percent. By the way, the wages are determined by the education and the years spent in the work, so the wages will increase to 90,000 people from January onwards. This means that while in 2010, when you were still in government, the average wage was 137 thousand forints, this year the average social wage will be 306,000 forints, and next year the average wage will be 370 thousand forints, honourable Member, and today the minimum wage is higher than the average national average wage at your time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So if you want a raise, you'd better stay away from the socialists. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "Everything expensive, why don't you reduce the tax on funerals? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-39	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Europe's record inflation causes serious damage to millions of Hungarians every day of life. Shopping, refueling, but now, at the festival of love, we see that it is facing brutal prices. However, there is little to say about granting the final honor that this, as well as the funeral, is costing more and more, and this has led to a great deal of maladministration. You have ordered a moratorium on municipal companies and service providers, while the National Heritage Institute of the State raises the Rijeka cemetery fees. He informed the interested party about this: the opening of graves, the provision of spray parquets, and the raising of everything. In addition, a government decision will be taken on 14 September, when prices can be increased for the first time after 18 December 2020 for the exchange of funds. Dear Secretary of State, Today, an average funeral starts from 360,000 forints, with 27 percent VAT. It is 30,000 people, 30,000 families, who have been put on such a heavy burden, so that, by the way, this is largely due to the government's criminal failure. Many of them are poor people, whose families are burdened with such prices. If the Secretary of State asks me for a solution, then the cost of cemetery operations should be borne by the state, but I am asking you now that at this time of inflation, you are planning to reduce the VAT and costs of burial. What do you want to do for the people, and why does the state increase the cost of funerals at this time? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-11-15-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We're used to having a price problem, rising prices, higher inflation, then the opposition has one answer to that, that we need to reduce VAT. I'm just asking this question: Is VAT reduction the solution to everything? So the VAT reduction, you know very well, because during your government, VAT has been reduced, and what have you created? It's a black ops mando. [[László Varju intervenes.]] They examined why prices didn't drop, even though you had a good intention of reducing the VAT rate during your administration. Of course, we agree that the costs of burial have increased, perhaps disproportionately. However, I think that the answer to all this is to reduce VAT, and the hip-hop will be resolved, I don't think that's true. That's one of the questions on the case. The other is that the VAT reduction actually helps people significantly. Those who use quality services would be able to save a higher amount of VAT. Then, of course, you have no responsibility for the fact that VAT revenue is the revenue from the budget, from which we finance all public services. This is not the task of the opposition, watching on the other side that the revenue is also in order in the budget. Mr President, Mr President, I think that consumption has been steadily increasing since 2013, which shows that incomes regularly quote price increases and inflation are being overcome. This was not always the case, because in 2010 it was exactly the other way around. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr President, I think that another solution could be the introduction of a social funeral on this issue. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question, 'Does everyone get hot in the winter?' It's an address. Madam Member, by answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who, at his request, will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2021-11-15-43	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The heating season is happening well, and, as always, the problem is that more than half a million people are unable to heat their homes enough during the winter months, for many people it is a fundamental problem to provide fuel. Furthermore, although more and more people are aware of it, unfortunately it is still necessary to draw attention to the fact that the incineration of waste, old furniture sheets or previously treated wood is prohibited because of the resulting toxic smoke. Households with solid fuels, mainly wood, can only obtain support through the social firewood programme, which is far from as uniform as the reduction in overhead costs, and the price of firewood has increased significantly in recent years, while the prices of gas and district heating have decreased since the reduction in overhead costs. In Hungary, air pollution and the associated health risks are perhaps the most commonly mentioned problem in the context of energy poverty. The high energy consumption of low-efficiency real estate results in a lot of CO2 emissions. [[12.40]] Energy poverty affects at least 10% of homes and hundreds of people die of air pollution-related diseases each year. The government should aim to enable families to renew the heating system in as many households as possible, replace outdated equipment, insulated homes, apartments and access high-quality energy-efficient fuels in as many households as possible, so that energy poverty does not affect any home. I would like to ask how the government plans to reduce energy poverty, how it supports households with solid fuels, how they support long-term families who do not have savings because of their need, which allows them to make energy investments and renovations. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In fact, there are a number of energy efficiency measures in Hungary, whose main purpose is to support families. Only recently 200 billion forints is 200 billion forints! We have launched a programme for families living in poorer regions, earning under average income. The programme contributes to reducing energy prices and replaces polluting heating systems with a modern and environmentally sound heating solution based on renewable energy sources. The aid may be granted to 35% of households earning less than the national average income, with an aid intensity of 100%. There was never such a program under the left. But there is also a successful home renovation support that can be used for this purpose. So far, nearly 100,000 Hungarian families have lived with this. This program would be terminated by the left. The government launched the Social Fuel Programme in 2011, providing support to hundreds of thousands of families in need each year. We also provide families with the greatest help by reducing their overhead. I remind you that when you and your allies ruled, the overhead was gone. You may laugh at this, honourable Member, but you want to govern with those commies. [[Krisztina Hohn: Komcsik?]] For their victory, he works for those under whom the overhead costs have skyrocketed. On the other hand, the national civilian government reduced the cost of overhead, with 25 percent of the cost of gas, electricity and district heating. So, honourable Member, talk to the allies of the commie about leaving the overhead alone. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Krisztina Hohn intervenes. Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why does the Fidesz government support climate destruction? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary, represented by János Áder, President of the Fideszes Republic in Glasgow, tried to place himself at the recent climate summit on a moral high ground that simply does not exist. The government of Viktor Orbán is not a climate champion, on the contrary, one of the worst obstacles to the fight against climate disasters. Minister Szijjártó also said that the Fidesz government is in the interest of the people, instead of serving a viable future, it serves the interests of industrial capital. Together with other political actors in the region, they are now lobbying to make gas and nuclear power green energy, as defined by the EU, in which case EU funds would be directed immediately to expensive, dangerous and non-climate-neutral Paks II investment, instead of achieving a substantial reduction in emissions by financing comprehensive energy efficiency and renewable programmes. While we should achieve a 60-65 percent reduction in emissions by 2030 in order to ensure our survival, the Fidesz government has not even agreed to the EU's 55 percent target. The Hungarian national goal is now the pathetic 40 percent, but the situation is worse, with the measures planned so far, we can only reach a 34 percent reduction by 2030. After that, it is particularly irritating that they are running a kamukonsultation building a Cubatov list on green issues, pretending that you are interested in the question of sustainability. That is why it is necessary, which is why there will be a change of government in 2022 to replace the cynical, irresponsible Fidesz regime, which supports the destruction of the future, with a responsible government committed to the future. Mr Secretary, my question is this: if the Hungarian people can't count on you to stop climate destruction, can you at least not lie to me about brown rotten oranges? Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since you've been sitting here in Parliament, you've never done anything to protect our environmental heritage. Nothing ever! He wasn't willing to do anything, Mr. Congressman. He's just talking, talking, and he's making Facebook posts. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Here before the National Assembly was the Act on Climate Protection, here was the parliamentary decision, which sets out how Hungary will be a carbon neutral country by 2050. And what did you do? Nothing, nothing! He even said no to this law. And it's also true that you have the right here in the National Assembly to hack and say destructive sentences, but it would be nice to have you look around your own house for the first time. Congressman, you have a mayor, you have a left-wing mayor whose promises in the area of climate policy are nothing but empty balloons. The biggest big speech you're about to tell us is that you promised to build a green park at City Hall while you're about to sell City Hall. Because it seems to you that this is the way, this is the solution, on the left you have always believed in privatisation. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] If there is a choice between a public park and a privatisation, honourable Member, then you are on the left always and always! privatization is chosen. But Gergely Christmas also closed the 154-year-old Main Garden, promised a cleaner and more livable Budapest, which remained unrequited, there is dirt on the streets of the capital, stench and cork everywhere. Mr President, it is also clear that the Mayor can't handle the traffic chaos in the capital, and he is creating new difficulties, which is why cars are even more polluting the health and the environment of Budapesters. As effective as the capital's climate policy is, I'm telling you, no matter how credible your entire party is. You're not green, you're newcomunists. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-15-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: When is the transfer of the completely renovated sections of the 60th railway line and the new stop expected? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As a Member of the Parliament of Rákosmente and Kőbánya, we welcome the government's national consultation on green issues. The questions asked here are closely linked to the desire of the cancerists and the people of Kőbánya to get as many people from the district as possible to and from downtown and from the area by public road transport. The development of the railway is particularly important for the people here, since until we reach our goal of getting the subway out of the 17th. district, this is the only available public transport facility. It can be said that train transport is still the fastest, easiest and least environmentally responsible way of travelling to the city centre and to Hatvan, the agglomeration. With government support, the development of the Budapest-Hatvan railway line was launched in 2018 and will renew the 53 km long, 4 station and 10 stop section in three steps. The development also involves 3 stops in my constituency: Rákoscsaba, Rákoscsaba-Újtelep and Rákosliget. Another stop on the railway station is waiting for a handover, so soon the train will stop at the Academy New Station. [[12.50]] With all the elements of the development of the Budapest-Hatvan railway line, fixed-track transport can further reduce vehicle traffic and environmental loads for the people living here. The renovation is heading towards the end, the two completely newly built overpasses already help faster transport, passage and safe transport. And the noise barrier, built next to the railway line, was an old request for the people living here to reduce the noise load, which is also built. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when the 60th railway line is scheduled to take place. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the transfer of the renovated stage of cancer and the installation of the new stop. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the transport instrument for the future is a clean, energy-efficient railway, which has a competitive advantage in the area of the metropolitan area. The MÁV Start carries most of its passengers in the capital agglomeration, and this is where its largest revenue comes from, by the way. Therefore, we also pay particular attention to the development of these sections. On the Budapest-Sixty line section the railway track has been renewed for almost 50 kilometres, the upgrading of the section will allow for a higher track speed, so transport will be faster and safer. I am also happy to confirm the Member in whom I think we all know that the development of your constituency is always actively promoting and constantly monitoring the ongoing work at the station of the cancer part. The positioning of the image elements and the stop signage are underway, as well as minor hull repairs are carried out by professionals. Accessibility elevators are also included, which are expected to be used from the beginning of 2022. The technical transfer/receiving of the P+R parking lot has also been successfully completed. Budapest XVII. a section of the railway line affecting its district, including the new railway station of the Academy, is planned to take over at the end of the month. Trains will be able to stop at the new stop from the entry into force of the train schedule of 21-22, i.e. from 12 December 21. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Földi, representative of KDNP, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Where is the development of the Hungarian motorway network? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Left-wing governments left behind a lot of debts in 2010 because they didn't care about road development and mistreated the existing road network. In 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government defined the direction of road development, with the main aim of reaching every county-righted city on a four-track road and leading motorways and highways to the border; the availability of priority economic areas, technological and industrial centres should be improved and there should be an expressway within half an hour from each settlement. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The southern part of Pest county was also affected by the development of Highway 4. As a result, the county section of M4 Pest was completed. This allows safe and fast transport twice in two lanes. This section of the road has been absent from the development of motorways for a long time, and it was one of the most dangerous sections of the road and even the road to death in Hungary. Over the last decade, the Fidesz-KDNP government has given momentum to the development of the motorway network and important stages have been delivered over the last few years. As a result, Cegléd, Abony and several settlements of the constituency are currently available by express route. Dear Secretary of State, As in the case of motorway M4, the aim is clear in the case of road renovations: to make transport safer and to correct critical sections. The trail of the M8 motorway and the trail of the M44 road also affect the county of South Pest, along with Nagykőrös, by building a large node. In any event, the development of the motorway network would be an additional opportunity for families and businesses in the area. That is why, with all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State: where is the development of the expressway today, in particular with regard to the M44 and the section concerning the South Pest County of M8? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-56	Good afternoon. We will continue our work by answering Mr Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State. Hello, there you go.
u2021-11-15-57	Hello, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government prioritises the development of Hungary's road transport and the continuous improvement of the available standards. These investments and developments are carried out undisturbed and undisturbed despite the outbreak of the Crown Virus. Within the framework of the road programme, more than 200 major road developments are made from HUF 3600 billion between 16 and 24 and about a thousand kilometres of new and renovated roads, thus increasing the total length of the Hungarian motorway network over two thousand kilometres. Under another road network development programme, the Hungarian motorway network can grow by another 390 km. The M4 is already possible in Pest County, we recently passed the M4 motorway between M0 and Abony East and the border between the new village-Romanian border of Berettyó. The section between the Abony East and the Törökszentmiklós-West, which includes the road that avoids Szolnok, is to be completed in the first half of 2022. As regards the M8 motorway, I can inform the honourable Member that the preparation of the development of the sections between M7 and Kecskemét is under way, according to a timetable, the construction permit may be available for the first phase, the first quarter of 22 and the fourth quarter of 22 for the second stage. In 2010, 14 county-righted cities and three national borders were available on four-track roads, and by the end of 20 we were able to reach 19 county-righted cities and 7 international connections. We're working to make this better. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-58	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas may speak, please.
u2021-11-15-59	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, My hometown, Kecel, and the neighbouring Kiskunhalas, are unfortunately not famous for their high-quality roads. In addition to some improvements, the condition of most of the road network is quite poor, even though promises have never been lacking. I would now like to ask you about the fate of some of these catastrophic roads. Before the elections in 2018, the pro-government campaign newspaper listed all the road sections that have not been fixed in our area recently as one of the planned renovations for 2020. These included, for example, the Kecel-Kiskunhalas section, the road 5312 from Jánoshalma to Hajós-Pincefalu, and the section of main road 54 between Kecel and Hajós-Pincefalu. The tragic state of the road to Kiskunhalas, the people of Kecelen, in my home town, may be the best, since many people go to work or study there. The quality of the road cover affects not only the longer journey time, the technical condition of the vehicles is also deteriorating, and the risk of accidents is increasing, even though with the promises Minister Sándor Pintér did not remain in debt, who said that the road between Kalocsa-Kecel-Imrehegy-Kiskunhalas would soon be completed after two and a half years. At the same time, many people also use the two other sections of the road I mentioned, the section of road 54 between Kecel and Ship, and the section between Jánoshalma-Hajós-Pincefalu, and it makes the lives of hundreds of people miserable every day. [[13.00]] Unfortunately, we find that not only in 2020, but not even in 2021, visible progress has been made in relation to the above sections of the road. People in the area may be confident that four years later than the 2018 promises, before next year's election, they may remember the decision makers again and, as an incentive for elections, they will begin to invest in these long-promised investments. Dear Secretary of State, So I ask what people in our region can expect from the renovation of these three specific sections of the road. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-15-60	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has the floor. Here.
u2021-11-15-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The proper technical state of transport networks is important for Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses and the economy as a whole. Over the past decade, more than 6,000 kilometres of roads have been repaired, and the total value of the investments carried out is more than HUF 750 billion. On the national road network of 32,000 kilometres before 2010, due to the irresponsible nature of left-wing governments, significant maintenance delays were accumulated, which still means a lot of additional tasks. Serious, targeted efforts have been made to eradicate these over the last decade, with major renovation programmes being launched year after year. The new road renovations started in the spring make driving and busing more comfortable and safer mainly in the countryside, in small towns. If the works go as planned, this year's road renovation works and investments can improve local quality of life by up to 1250 kilometres. We know there's still work to be done, but I'm asking you to consider this performance together. I would like to inform you that within the framework of the Hungarian village, the 1st section of the road No.5312, Kalocsa-Bácsalmás was renovated in the Hajós area and in the interior of Jánoshalma, and the design of the outside section of Jánoshalma is expected to be completed in a further 2.5 km long period. Under the TOP programme, the 2,1 km long section of route 5312 has been renewed between Boat road and main road 54, and the road 5301 is planned for Kecel-Kalocsa, and [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the renovation of road 5309 between Kecel-Kiskunhalas. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-62	Thank you very much. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why don't you deal with one of our most valuable public goods, the mineral water in Balatonfenyves?" Congressman Steinmetz, here you go.
u2021-11-15-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the border of Balatonfenyves, next to Route 7, there is a special well, which has been pouring a qualified mineral water since 1969, and as we know, the groundwater is owned by the Hungarian state, but the authorities of the Hungarian state have not been dealing with this well for decades. While healthy drinking water is limited to millions of people on earth, this source has been unused in our country for 52 years. In Balatonfenyves, from hundreds of meters deep, about 30 thousand liters of mineral water burst into the surface every day and flows without trace, disappears in Berek. This water could also be bottled, since it is suitable for consumption, which is also shown by test results. The well's calcium and magnesium-rich water could also cure our fellow countrymen suffering from osteoporosis and indigestion. The exploitation of mineral water would therefore clearly serve the development of Balatonfenyves and its region. In this respect, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State why they do not address one of our most valuable public goods, the mineral water in Balatonfenyves. And are you willing to renovate the well in Balatonfenyves in order to use its water either as a medicinal water or as bottled mineral water? So my question is, yes or no? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-11-15-64	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond. Here.
u2021-11-15-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In preparation for today's oral question, I contacted Mayor Gábor Lombár, mayor of Balatonfenyves, in the interest of asking for information on the history and the state of the well. I learned that in the late '60s, wells were drilled in the area in search of oil, and there in two settlements, Buzsák, the famous use of Csista baths and the exploitation of thermal water took place in Tashka, and it did not happen in Fenyves because the temperature of the water was lower, and this prevented the establishment of the bath. The owner of the well and the area made great efforts to recognise the quality of this water as mineral water, and to make use of it, but this did not succeed. There was also a change of ownership, after the death of the former owner, the municipality tried to reach an agreement with the heirs without success. And there was a development idea, a few hundred meters east of the well, east of the current well, that they wanted to do thermal recovery and thermal development, and then the developer had the current state of the well examined that the well was inoperable in its present state, that in order to obtain water with great certainty, in accordance with a number of sectoral regulations, a new well would have to be drilled, so this current well is not suitable for this. The mayor also informed me that the municipality is also trying to promote the possibility of using the well by ensuring that the proper territorial development classification of the area has been carried out in the settlement plan. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congresswoman, please.
u2021-11-15-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I could ask you why you do not comply with your statutory obligations, Mr. Secretary of State. K/17338. I submitted a written question, where I asked 12 questions last time about the epidemic, and, Mr Secretary of State, they did not answer any of the questions. Then I would like to ask these questions orally again. What is the current rate of vaccine/non-vaccination among patients with coronal viral disease in hospital? What is the current rate of vaccine/non-vaccination among patients infected with the coronal virus on the ventilator? What was the rate of vaccine/non-vaccination among the official victims of the coronal virus in the last month? What are your plans to increase grafting? Why is the rate of respirators so high compared to registered new infected patients or patients treated in the hospital? Why not increase the number of tests during the rise of the fourth wave of the epidemic, especially when the number of positive cases is constantly increasing within all tests? On August 27th, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences proposed to prepare for the fourth wave of the epidemic, in which they proposed, among other things, the requirement of the protection certificate and the wearing of masks for the visit of events receiving a larger crowd, mainly in closed spaces. What was the reason why the World Hunting Exhibition was exempted from the epidemiological rules, and according to the organizers, over a million people could visit the event without a protection certificate or mask? In what situation, with which epidemic data can the situation be restored, the use of the protection certificate must be tightened up? What could be the reason that over 200,000 people didn't take the second shot? Secretary of State, you can see the other questions I've asked in writing. And, Mr Secretary of State, the Russians are getting more information from you about the Hungarian epidemic and the situation of vaccines than Hungarian citizens and opposition politicians. I ask the Secretary of State that the law [[The president's ringing the bell.]] answer my questions in a specific way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-15-68	Thank you. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here.
u2021-11-15-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, From the very first moment of the outbreak, it has been important for us to provide information as widely as possible, and you have also seen the Crown Virus information, which could be tracked live every day in public TV. But not only did we try to provide information on TV, we also opened new platforms on the Internet. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Koronyvirus.gov.hu provides fresh data every day, everyone can look at the data for the previous weeks, months, now years back. Vaccineinfo.gov.hu also contains information on vaccinations and the possibility of vaccination. On a daily basis, vaccinations and the number of caregivers are provided with the most extensive information, for example, in the number of people who have died. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] We're not just talking about people who died with coronal virus disease, but with coronal virus disease, who had any infection at the time of death. [[13.10]] You don't really get more information in other countries than that. Coronary virus epidemic is a recurring topic in government information. We provide data to everyone here, and when you ask written questions, which is obviously because it is data, so it can be answered, we always do. You asked what we've done in the last few weeks. You know that as of 1 November, employers may require vaccination for their own workers, that masking is mandatory in Community transport, that a visitation ban has been put in place in health institutions, that can be decided by the heads of institutions in the social institution. You know that in Hungary, we were the first to ensure the possibility of taking a third vaccine in the European Union. Also in recent days, we have informed everyone that 20 percent of beds in hospitals should be maintained for the treatment of patients with coronary viruses and that 10 percent of these should also be provided for intensive therapeutic care. These are the measures that have taken place recently, and all other measures have been communicated to you, including all other data. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I hope you are not looking for these data to dissuade people about vaccinations, as you are still alive today with a proposal that would prohibit saving lives with Chinese and Russian vaccines in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-70	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question, "When are you going to take the epidemiological situation and citizens seriously?" It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed the Minister of Human Resources Miklós Kásler, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Bence Rétvári will respond. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-11-15-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Gábor G. Fodor said at the time that the ideal of civil Hungary was just a political product, the creation of which was never a real plan. That's the thought we're getting in the middle of an epidemic. The best way to deal with the epidemic was in societies where the government viewed people as responsible citizens, with whom it shared information, and asked them to take individual responsibility, such as masks, distance, regular hand disinfection, and the responsible decision to take vaccinations. People in our country take serious misconceptions, Mr. Secretary of State, because the current Hungarian government has never given them any answers with a specific professional or scientific need, and you have put people's lives at risk. We are the people of Semmelweis, and today we wash our hands not because it is being checked by the soap police, but because people know exactly what they are risking if they do not. This would also be the key to dealing with the epidemic, especially in these days, when we are faced with extremely bad epidemiological data. The number of new infected people per day is already one and a half times the previous peak. This weekend, 304 victims were killed. This is a dangerous approach to the previous maximum. Almost 30 percent of the tests performed are positive. The Prime Minister admitted the other day that he couldn't do more for proper grafting and entrusted the employers with the epidemiological measures, while, by the way, he always wanted to take care of everything centrally. 32 171 of our countrymen died of a coronal virus, Secretary of State. Non-life-saving surgeries are being postponed again. Cancer screenings have been going on for a long time. The thoughtful, often only in communication, epidemic management has indeed created an extraordinary situation and will also be the death victims of it outside Covid. That's why I'm asking you, when do you start taking the epidemiological situation and citizens seriously? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2021-11-15-72	Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State of Rétvári.
u2021-11-15-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, as you have pointed out, the situation in many European countries is much more serious in some respects than ever before. In Austria, a record number of infected people were found, nearly 10,000 per day. In Germany, the daily number of infections per 100,000 inhabitants exceeded the highest number of the third wave and rose above 200, talking about a very high number of infections around 50,000 per day. There are hospitals in Berlin that cancel the scheduled surgeries. In Romania, we had one hand to count the number of free hospital beds on certain days. Bulgaria has activated the civil protection mechanism, so it has requested assistance from abroad for the care of patients. Latvia also asked for help. Among other things, Hungary provided assistance with ventilators. In Slovakia, too, the number of infected people is over 7,000 per day. So the situation in many countries of the world, and especially Europe, is far more critical than ever before when I look at the daily number of infected. You said there was a need for seriousness. What is really necessary is that, only when your fellow Member, his left-wing fellow politician, Ágnes Kunhalmi, says that those who spoke about opening were not actually calling for opening, and is trying to save themselves, it is not a sign of seriousness that you say that you want an opening, but then you say that you do not want an opening when you want an opening. Do you know what was literally in your party's petition, honourable Member? We must protect the Hungarians from Orbán's human experiment, the Chinese vaccine must be banned! The Chinese vaccine saved the lives of thousands of Hungarian people so that they could get the vaccine in time. What did you say? They said we don't support the use of Chinese vaccine in our districts, while, as far as I know, your husband was vaccinated with an Eastern vaccine. [[Anett's shaking his head.]] Would you really have taken away the possibility of Chinese vaccine from people? And you say that we need more seriousness, honourable Member, while, thank God, we were first able to achieve 25 percent and 50 percent vaccination, at least first in the world and in the European Union? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] You criticized the Hungarian disease management, but the WHO Director General acknowledged it, and Hungary is one of the best in the Nikkei index. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-74	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, 'Do you really not leave anyone on the side of the road?' It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-11-15-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Over the years, we have been accustomed to you pro-governments giving money generously to certain groups, but you tend to forget those most in need. They promised they wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road. Here are the public workers, for example. They are one of the most neglected and most exploited groups in the country. They are the ones who want to work, but most people are no longer able to fit into the labour market for health, mental or other reasons. The sad fact is that between 2011 and 2020, more than 710 thousand Hungarians were involved in public employment. The increase in the minimum wage is also good news for public workers, at least according to Gergely Gulyás: their wages will follow the increase in the minimum wage and will represent 50% of the minimum wage. However, the public employment wage currently represents 50.8 percent of the minimum wage, i.e. it is not difficult to calculate that the wages of the public employees will not follow the full increase in the minimum wage. But even bigger problem is that since 2011, the proportion of the two wages has been steadily deteriorating. In 2011, even 731 percent of the minimum wage was paid in the public employment sector, with less than 60 percent in 2018 and a further decline in the next year. I will therefore re-submit the amendment of the law tabled by LMP in July 2020, the essence of which is that the public employment wage must not be less than 70 per cent of the minimum wage and that the public employment wage requiring skills is 70 per cent of the guaranteed minimum wage. My question is this: will you leave the public workers on the side of the road, or will you accept our re-submitted proposal, which means that your wages will increase to 70 per cent rather than 50 per cent of the minimum wage? Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-76	Thank you. Secretary Charles Kontra, here you go.
u2021-11-15-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We really don't leave anyone on the side of the road like we promised. The government's aim is to give people jobs instead of aid, and it is worth working in Hungary. In recent years, public employment has made a significant contribution to replacing the aid-based society with a work-based society in Hungary. Today, 73 percent of the working population works in Hungary. Public employment remains regarded as temporary employment by the government. Public workers also had to be interested in working in the competitive sector in terms of financial motivation. A greater approximation of public employment wages and the minimum wage would counter the effective reduction of labour shortages in the Hungarian economy. The government will continue to provide public employment for everyone who has not been able to work in the open market next year. I will say this again in the central budget of 2022: HUF 120 billion was secured by the Parliament. [[13.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In 2019, 50 municipalities started the economic recovery programme of the beneficiary settlements and 31 settlements with a long-term programme of catching up settlements. In 2021, both programmes could continue with the government's approval of additional municipalities. In view of all of this, the remaining public employment envelope allows almost 105 thousand people to be employed on an annual average. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-78	Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Hoppál, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question about the continuation of incentives for government investment in Pécs? It's an address. Congressman Hoppál, please.
u2021-11-15-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, A number of projects with government support have recently been made in Pécs, in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and HIPA, as well as the National Investment Agency, played an important role. The South Korean Hanon Systems automotive plant, the construction of the first European factory of SEIREN in Japan, or the Danish Soft Flow Kft. The research and development centre of a biotechnology company is also an example of the city of Pécs being able to attract investors when it receives government assistance. In recent years, as a result of targeted support from the civilian government, more and more major companies have decided to choose the county seat in Baranya. The economic development of the largest city of Transdanubia, Pécs, is also a key issue for the city, Baranya county and the South Transdanubian region. This is the part of the country where there is still free labour capacity and the University of Pécs provides an appropriate academic partner for companies. The M6 motorway and the pagan airport before enlargement will also be able to provide logistics services for companies. The former right-wing city leadership, with the development of the southern industrial park in Pécs, has successfully started an economic recovery strategy, resulting in the fact that today, after a decade, the business tax revenue of the city has increased by one and a half times, reaching ten billion forints, which has never been seen before. The government is the main supporter of Pécs, so it is important to continue to encourage investment in the future, which will increase the economic power of the city and thus the county. Dear Deputy Minister, My question is: can the Pécs continue to count on the Government's successful investment incentive programme to bring as many investors and investments into the city as possible? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-80	Thank you very much. Deputy Minister Levente Magyar responds, please.
u2021-11-15-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since 2010, the government has consistently declared that without a strong rural economy there is no strong Hungarian economy. Hungary's development will be balanced only if the large cities of the region can attract investments of volume that give real impetus to the economic development of the region concerned. It is a joyful fact that Pécs and the whole of Baranya County are playing an increasingly important role in this process. Since 2014, a positive support decision has been made on the priority working capital investment in 33 Baranya County through the domestic investment promotion system, worth some 242 billion HUF. The emergence of the coronal virus did not change the government's view: in parallel with the spread of the epidemic, we focused on stabilising the liquidity of domestic businesses and supporting their investments, and the priority was constantly protecting jobs. As a result of the crisis management measures implemented in the last year and a half, Hungary is currently one of the ten EU countries that have already reached their 2019 emissions levels. The county of Baranya has also been given a very important role in this process. With the support of the competitiveness-enhancing support programmes managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade to mitigate the economic damage caused by the corona virus epidemic, there have been 30 investments in Baranya, representing HUF 16 billion in investment volumes and some 5800 retained jobs. The state's grant totaled over HUF 6.8 billion. In addition to the results achieved, there is an optimism that we are currently managing 14 pre-decision projects in the Hungarian investment promotion system in Baranya County. If the negotiation process is successful and all of these are achieved, this means 4200 new jobs and nearly HUF 400 billion investment for Baranya County. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-82	Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "What does the Government do to protect the life of Lake Tisza from the rags? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Tisza Lake was contaminated with a disc shooter by hunters who, at the opening of the beach season, organized a four-day festival with a disc shooter in the vicinity of birds nesting just 300 metres from the strictly protected Ramsari zone in an area of Natura 2000. Now Italian hunters shot lead shots at the also protected birds, as it happened that in one of the deadlands of Lake Tisza, in a highly protected, so-called Ramsari area, birds were found with shotguns, including the highly protected small cojones, according to the members of a Tiszafüred association, the Hungarian Environmental Management and Rural Development Society. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, There has been a little bit of a lot lately of this and similar nature-insensitiveness at Lake Tisza, and then there must be a talk about those swimming facilities on the waterfront, built in all sorts of styles, expensive smaller or larger swimming houses and the combination of those which, in the flights or rowers, are most likely to see a Kubist landscape with no artistic value in it, creating all kinds of inappropriate colors. In fact, tourists see landscape damage, and they see sudden, unthinkable developments. In recent times, the government has made everything possible for tourism and money at Lake Tisza, but perhaps now we should draw a line for nature conservation. Hunting protected animals and contaminating the environment in our country's second largest lake is prohibited not only because of the protection of natural values, but also because of the sustainable development of tourism. That's why I'm asking what the government's plan is to protect the nature of Lake Tisza. How long are you going to let Lake Tisza fall at the expense of the local environment? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-11-15-84	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Sándor Farkas responds, please.
u2021-11-15-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Agriculture was also sorry to hear from the news that in one of the deadlands of Lake Tisza, in the area mentioned by you, water birds were found by members of the Hungarian Environmental Management and Rural Development Society. According to preliminary but unproven data, foreign hunters are suspected to have killed a hunting-capitaled duck, a protected rattle and a highly protected little cocoon. X-rays showed lead shots in the corpse of the dead little diamonds. For the time being, there is no information on exactly when, how, and where the hits took place and who the perpetrators were. The serious violation of the law, the shooting of the protected and highly protected species, the crime of damage to nature, the unauthorized hunting and the use of lead in the Ramsar water habitat are deeply condemned and we trust that the police investigation will be effective with the effective involvement of the hunting and conservation authorities and that the perpetrators will be held accountable. I would also like to inform you that the authorisation procedure for disc-shooting competitions falls within the competence and competence of the competent police authority, so that you can contact them in case of a question. It can obtain information on architectural and real estate development issues at Lake Tisza from the notary of that municipality and from the designated building authority. Lake Tisza and its surroundings have undergone unprecedented development over the past decade. Nature protection and sustainability are at the heart of all state developments. As in the past, the government will continue to do everything in its power to protect its protected natural values, as it is in our common interest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before we go any further, on your behalf, I welcome our guests from Siofok with respect and friendship. I'm glad you're here. I wish you all the best. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, may now ask questions. He asks the Minister without a wallet in charge of national politics, ecclesiastical affairs and nationalities: When will he account for the costs of the World Hunting Exhibition? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.30]] Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology, who is responsible for tasks and competences according to the subject; and at the request of the Minister, Minister Tamás Schanda will respond. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Let me say some shocking figures: 55 billion forints, 10 billion forints, 6.2 billion forints, 2 billion forints, and by the end of the rest, 100 million forints. I suppose Secretary of State knows what these amounts are, because if anyone, you, the government and, of course, the country's headhunter killing pets, should know precisely that these amounts are those that were scattered in connection with the World Hunting Exhibition, of course, in the middle of a pandemic. These are the sums that you spent on your personal hobbies with taxpayers' money, because as we are used to in this country, there is always public money to spend on things that are so kind to you, whether it be football, hunting or flying by private jets. And finally, these are the amounts that you simply refuse to account for fairly. It's not gonna be more than seven weeks before we find out anything more suspicious about the World Hunting Exhibition. For example, in the event of a total of more than HUF 70 billion in tax-paying money, for example, we read that nearly HUF 100 million was paid for alleged impact assessments, but they simply refuse to inform the public about them. Of course, Potom 100 million forints in your corruption master machine seems almost small change. To understand, Minister, who is not here right now, even he could travel to Sweden several times, for example, for private luxury hunting, killing pets and taking pictures of deer carcasses there, and then speaking hypocritically about the love of the environment and nature. And believe me, decent taxpayers are at a knife-opening pace when you spend your money to satisfy their insane needs and, of course, fill your buddies' pockets well. I hope you won't be surprised if we ask you: when are you going to account for the costs of the World Hunting Exhibition and when are you going to provide transparent information about all the suspicious transactions associated with the exhibition? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Of course, only if Mr Miniszer has time to do so between two helicopter cruises in Sweden. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2021-11-15-88	You've got less and less time because everyone talks more than two minutes, so I'm gonna ask you to follow the house rules from everyone. Now, Mr. Secretary, the rehearsal, please.
u2021-11-15-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman! It is unfortunate that the left can do nothing but spread false news. The thing is, you're a one-man Fake News factory, Your Honour, a one-man Fake News factory! If necessary, they will lie about the coronal virus epidemic, and then about the world's exhibition, in the morning, at night and at night, as Ferenc Gyurcsány said. [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] Before shooting out innocent people's eyes. Honourable Congressman, So I'm gonna say it again, and I'm gonna try it slower than I did the last time, so that you and your fake news company can understand that the world's exhibition cost 17 billion forints in total. This amount includes the world-class exhibitions of the 20-day World Hunting Exhibition on 75,000 square meters. It includes the cost of organising half a dozen international conferences; a number of domestic events, which took place as the launch of the World Exhibition. And the renovation of Hungexpo, whose budget is completely independent of the world's exhibition, cost HUF 55 billion, but this has nothing to do with the world's exhibition. [[Intercoms from the DK benches.]] Apart from the fact that the World Exhibition took place on this site. You should be grateful for this investment. If you were a decent mayor of Budapest, you would thank this investment and not attack it with your parliamentary representatives. [[Zoltán Varga keeps interrupting.]] Honourable Congressman, The fact is that in 20 days there were more than 600 thousand visitors to Hungexpo and 1.5 million visitors to the entire series of events. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Those are the facts. Don't spread false news. Stop it! Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-15-90	Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, Member of the LMP and Head of Group, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: the construction of a railway line aimed at reducing rail freight traffic across the capital's residential areas? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Palkovics, who is responsible and competent on the subject, who has asked Mr Schanda Tamás State Secretary to respond, so expect this. You have the floor, please.
u2021-11-15-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The basic situation is that you are preparing to build infrastructure for the transit of Chinese mass products in Hungary from hundreds of billions of Hungarian people, Hungarian taxpayers, instead of establishing the basis for patriot economic policy, which has often been spoken at the level of words. The fact of the matter is that this policy will, in particular, be condemned by Budapest. Minister Szijjártó made a statement in 2013 that the government intended to create a railway line called V0, which would avoid Budapest in the southern direction, and talked about the need for this to allow rail freight traffic to avoid Budapest. According to the original plans, this investment should have been completed by 2017, but it is clear that none of this is actually going to happen. The government now seems to see the solution in the development of the southern circular railway, and we can say that the development of passenger infrastructure and noise protection measures are, of course, eligible, but at the same time, the need to drive and increase freight traffic in such volumes within residential areas is unacceptable, as it is unacceptable for us to see a thousand trees cut by the investor near the Hamzsabégi promenade on the basis of the extension of the circular railway. My specific questions, Mr. Secretary of State: what happened after the announcement of Péter Szijjártó with the bypass line V0? The government's position on the issue has changed, so now they don't think it's a problem to dump such a huge amount of cargo traffic into the residential areas of Budapest? The government will prevent that, in connection with the railway works of the circular railway, that one thousand trees will be cut down, and after many, many encryptions, I think it is time for the government to reveal the exact volume of freight traffic they are expecting and the cargo traffic they want to push to the residential areas of Budapest. Thank you very much for your reply in advance.
u2021-11-15-92	Thank you very much. Of course, it is about the construction of a railway line called V0. You said it right, I didn't. Since you can't criticize me, but the house rule doesn't forbid me to criticize myself, I just did. [[Defiance.]] Secretary Schanda, please.
u2021-11-15-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Another left-wing speech, another complete fake news. It is simply not true what you say, and it is only possible to talk about failure in relation to left-wing rail policy. It would be time for you to talk about this, about the failure of the left-wing railway policy, which you are fighting for every day, by the way. It was them. [[Pointing to the left.]] And now you're working with these old commies who have privatized the MÁV. [[Noise and interruptions from DK benches.]] In 2010, MÁV was handed over to the national civilian, Christian Democrat government with a debt of HUF 300 million. And you too are pro-green, to be more precise: as a so-called pro-green politician, you are constantly pursuing anti-rail policy; you are constantly attacking rail investments that enable environmentally sound transport. We, the national civilian government, are committed to you and your friends for the implementation of the V0 railway line, and we have started the investment. The aim of this is to build the freight corridor that can help to relieve the burden of the capital and agglomeration transport in addition to V0. I would like to inform you that the former axle has been withdrawn because a new aspect concerning the V0 railway line has emerged by selecting the high-speed railway track of Budapest-Warsó. They also had to be incorporated; the new tender is ongoing and ongoing. And allow me to also use correction on the fact that during the development of the southern circular railway, there is not a thousand trees cut down, yet one speech and two fake news has taken place. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The trees will be removed by relocation. We're talking about a lot less trees...
u2021-11-15-94	Mr. Secretary.
u2021-11-15-95	...and about 2,000 new trees are being planted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2021-11-15-96	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. The municipalities are drawing the short straw again? Here you go.
u2021-11-15-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At the time of the pandemic, the municipalities drew the short straw, we can say that, since the municipalities have lost a number of revenue that you have included in the coronal virus epidemic measure. In other words, it could be said that the car tax has been reduced, since the tax on tourism has been suspended, and the additional support for tourism tax is not granted, but the most significant item is half the business tax, which meant that the local authorities could not collect the full business tax. Of course, we know that this was a relief for businesses, but in the case of 3155 municipalities, this was a loss of billions of funds, and let us add that the number of investments has not decreased anywhere, the number of roads, the number of pavements to be renovated has not decreased anywhere, nor in Siófok. We see that the present ominous shadows have already arrived, and you have waved that in 2022 there will be a maximum 1 percent business tax on the revenue side of the municipalities. But I ask the Secretary of State that, as in 2021, settlements can expect compensation, because apparently only the chosen ones could get some compensation. In 2021, the municipalities squeezed the belt together and thought that they could finally breathe in 22 and that there would be a source of income for delayed investments. What's to come in 22? Will there be compensation? Do you have enough budget to cover that? Because the fact that they say again that the municipalities should solve it alone, because they levitate how much money there is in the local governments' accounts, I respectfully say, Secretary of State, it is not enough for the municipalities to make these investments on their own initiative. So you're gonna get compensation? That's my question. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-15-98	Thank you very much. Secretary of State András Tállai, please.
u2021-11-15-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and But when the municipalities draw the shorter question, you do not mean when the Fidesz government took over HUF 1400 billion between 2010-2014, do you mean the loan of the entire municipal system? That's not what you mean, is it? Or you don't mean when the public employment programme is launched, thousands of public workers are doing municipal work on the state's money. That's not what you mean, is it? Or don't you mean the amount of HUF 1200 billion from the regional development operational programme to the municipal system, and the TOP Plus, in which the municipalities will receive even more resources? Or don't you mean when we talk about the program of the Hungarian village and the settlements receive 250 billion a year in the three-year programme? Or you don't mean the program of modern cities, do you, when drawing the short straw, when thousands of billions get to cities with county rights or larger cities? As regards the municipality of Siófok, the municipality is not so bad as it had HUF 5.6 billion in commercial banks in the third quarter of 2021. Anyone with that kind of money, a small town like this, can't complain. By the way, there will be compensation, as I said, similar to what happened in 2021: a total of 34.2 billion in settlements below 25 thousand people, and a total of 22.5 billion forints in excess of 25 thousand people. Thus, the municipalities received a total of HUF 56.7 billion this year as a result of the loss of business tax, and the compensation will be made in a similar way in the following year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-15-100	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: å Why don't you go up to Viktor Orbán at the Castle in Buda and initiate the discharge of Szilárd Demeter? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. In principle, you and your minister, your ministry, are responsible for the Hungarian culture in the government. It was Minister Kásler who formally entrusted Szilárd Demeter to the Director-General of the Petőfi Literature Museum and then to the Minister, who became the Father God of Fidesz Culture Policy. In this position Szilárd Demeter, as a cultural father, regularly reveals his judgment on artists and art, so the last time we learned from him personally that he hates the theatre and 80 percent of Hungarian writers, I quote: he would throw it away for the sake of simplicity. Mr Secretary, this man has repeatedly shocked millions of Hungarians who love national culture. Your government commissioner, Mr. Balázs Fürjes, has been separated from him, and while the actors, colour directors and rock singers of the Fidesz grandstand are deeply silent, it is clear that many of you have had the assurance that, according to the Orbán government, all of this which they had previously created, I once again quote Szilárd Demeter:, it is worse than the dentistry. Minister of State, Szilárd Demeter is not only professionally, but also humanly unfit for the tasks entrusted to him, such as the integrated development of Hungarian book and literary public collections, or he is unfit to coordinate and socialize Hungarian light music, because he has such a position. Let's say it's worth a question of what to coordinate on Hungarian music. This man, I understand, is a confidant of Viktor Orbán, and that explains a lot, but he can't stay in his place. Let's say Szilárd Demeter is a disgrace to the Hungarian national culture, whose words burn on you, your ministry and, of course, the entire government. Secretary of State, what are you waiting for? Why don't you or your minister walk up to Viktor Orbán at the Castle in Buda and initiate the discharge of this spree killer? Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-102	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár. Here.
u2021-11-15-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would recommend to you, honourable Member, that you walk up to the Apró villa and ask Ferenc Gyurcsány what you were thinking when you said that Attila Vidnyánszky and his associates, so everyone who thinks on the national side, and who deals with culture, will remain Vidnyánszky and his companions until Orbán, after which they fall. In fact, Ferenc Gyurcsány continues: in every sense, they will be runaways. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: That's right!]] And now you're saying it's true, it's confirmed. There will be no trenches, no parentheses, no airless world. You tell everyone who thinks differently about anything in the world than you do that they're gonna be land runners. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Who steals!]] Here, within the walls of this House, I have already told you that a lady at a deportation memorial in Hortobágy came to me to tell her parents the same thing, which is why she grew up on Hortobágy. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: This is Szilárd Demeter!]] 'Cause they made him land-runner. Would you go to Ferenc Gyurcsány? He would walk up and tell him that my dear Ferenc Gyurcsány, there are people of many minds who don't think like liberals and the left, they are people, they have a right to their opinion. The world is diverse because there are people who think differently than Ferenc Gyurcsány, and it cannot be said that anyone who thinks differently than Ferenc Gyurcsány will be a runner in every sense, financially, without a job, without a place to live, with nothing, with no trench burial. While you are talking about a language of love in Parliament, you say that there will be no trench burial, but that everyone who thinks differently in public speaking, in the world of public life than you do, will be made a runner. Or walk to Agnes Vadai, see how he thought that journalists would be dealt with in Rwanda. Or ask Szabó Timea what he thought when he said that anyone who was proven collaborating with the Fides should leave public life. Every businessman, anyone who's ever talked to a fidesz, has a picture of him in common, or, as after the revolution of '56, look at the photos of who needs to be removed, honourable Member? Or walk to City Hall until you sell it to Gergely Christmas and ask why they censor the screening of the Gyurcsány film. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-15-104	After encouraging each other to take a walk, it is now time for Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, who is the representative of the LMP, to review the unrealisticly low pension increase planned for next year? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I must inform you that Prime Minister Katalin Novák has appointed a Minister without a wallet for families, who, in turn, has asked Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, who is a few meters away from you to respond. But first, let's hear the question. Here. [[13.50]]
u2021-11-15-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There has been an unprecedented 6.5 percent inflation since 2012, especially the prices of some basic foods, for example: 30 percent for food, 19 percent for margarine, 13 percent for flour, 9 percent for poultrymeat, 8 percent for pastry and bread. The price increase is best suffered by the elderly, for whom food is the largest item in the consumer basket. This means that inflation will take the incoming pension supplement completely, since this year's pension increase will be only 4.8 percent. Dear Secretary of State, They promised to keep the purchasing power of pensions or at least increase it by inflation. You have not raised pensions in line with real inflation. In addition, the poorest people were left on the side of the road, as the minimum wage of HUF 28 500 has not been raised by one forint in 11 years, let alone inflation. Even though they give a one-time allowance like the pension premium, inflation takes a large part of it. What remains of it cannot compensate for the fact that wages are increasing much more than pensions. Thus, pensioners have become completely poorer within society, and more and more people are living below the minimum living standards thanks to the government. I believe you're perfectly aware of that. For this reason, I ask: are you planning to review the three percent increase in next year's pensions? It amends the fiscal law in line with real inflation expectations so that pensioners do not have to live on pensions again, not even following inflation all year round. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-15-106	Thank you very much, and also for keeping up the time frame. Secretary of State, Róbert Zsigo, please.
u2021-11-15-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I hate to break it to you, but I have to say, your comment was unworthy. On the one hand, you said in your comment that we had not raised the minimum wage in 11 years. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: 28 500!]] He said that when the agreement was reached that the minimum wage would be HUF 200,000 in 2022; it would be higher than the average wage before the Gyurcsány government. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: That's not a pension increase!]] That's what you just said, Congresswoman, that's what you wrote down. The other is that you wrote down your question about us deceiving the pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to tell you some facts, some things that have happened. Your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, under your leadership... [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] You can laugh, but you made an alliance with him. During his administration, he took the 13th month pension from the elderly, and they wanted to tax pensions. In that period, the purchasing value of pensions was indeed reduced, and the cost of the overhead was skyrocketed, three times the price of gas, twice the price of electricity, thus pushing pensioners, the elderly, into complete insecurity. Congresswoman, since 2010, as much as you try to deny it, we have been following a different policy. It's not restrictions, it's help and respect for the elderly. Indeed, we have not only maintained the purchasing value of pensions, but also increased it by more than 10 percent. Last week, pensioners received a pension premium of HUF 80,000, higher than ever, and not only those who received a pension, but also those who received a pension: orphanage, widow's pension, disability benefit. And the performance of the economy allows us to give back the 13th month's pension, which your boss has taken away, completely next year. We honor old people, and all you do is promise and always take away from them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-108	Dear Parliament, The last question is today. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: what experts have determined that the MotoGP course will be a better place in Hajdúnana than in Sávoly? Here you go.
u2021-11-15-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Why is MotoGP Hajdúnánás, not Somogyi Sovoly? I have asked this question many times in the Parliament, and you have assured me, I quote, that a professional decision has been made. But the arguments that I once again quote you have come to a professional decision, since not only the right area is available in Hajdúnánás, but there are three county-righted cities close to the University of Debrecen and the existing automotive centre, unfortunately they do not convince me that the billions of taxpayers should be spent on Hajdúnána instead of Sávoly. Therefore, I turned in writing to Mr Henrik Hermann, President of the Hungarian Motorsport Association, if you will. He answered my questions in September, which, if you will allow me, I will now quote word for word:. So far we have received no meaningful role or information as a professional association for MotoGP. The alliance was not involved in the ITM decisions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, How's that? Didn't you ask for the opinion of the Hungarian Motorsport Association? Well, then, who's the business if it's not the alliance? ! And please tell me, what experts have determined that MotoGP will be a better place in Hajduna than in Sávoly, where otherwise the MotoGP course is half ready? Dear Secretary of State, The MotoGP project was recently removed from your department. Is it because their decisions were professionally unfounded? Yes or no? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-15-110	Thank you. Here comes the answer. Secretary Schanda, please.
u2021-11-15-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your allies, friends, fellow warriors, left-wing governments have decided to build the lane because that's what they know, honourable Member. It is worth learning: this is all they can do; promise and then destroy. That's the thing. That's the thing. But they can destroy very well. I suggest, honourable Member, that you look at all the promises of Gyurcsány with a similar spirit, because, if you have not noticed them yet, if you have perhaps had time, then they lie and destroy. I ask you, Your Honour, that you do not want to bring back this destructive Gyurcsány era. During the preparation of the home location of the World Speed Motor Championship, we contacted a significant number of Hungarian and international experts. In one of the most popular sports in the world, the necessary framework is determined by the right-holder Dorna Sports and not by the domestic alliance, but I think you know that very well, only because of some intention, you regularly lobby here in Parliament for individual investor interests. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz: I refuse!]] We worked with them. From the beginning, professional guarantees have been strictly monitored by the only Hungarian world champion of the MotoGP series, Gábor Talmácsi, and I hope that as an athlete, this is a sufficient guarantee for you that he really knows this area. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to draw your attention to the fact that the President, mentioned by you, has also been involved in the development of a sport strategy for the Hungarian car-motor. And I have also repeatedly said here in Parliament that the implementation of the investment has entered the construction phase, so the government has involved an organisation specifically created for this purpose in order to achieve the development in a timely, accurate and appropriate manner, but the ITM is still the coordinator of the development, the professional director of the development. Another time, pay more attention to previous answers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, With this, the item on the agenda for today's issues is finished, and the immediate questions are now coming. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask this Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the congressman, Mr György Szilágyi, to accept the response.
u2021-11-15-113	Mr President, we will wait for Viktor Orbán to come to work. Thank you very much. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Where is Peter James? Where is he?]]
u2021-11-15-114	We wish you good waiting. Thus, Congressman Zoltán Balczó, the representative of Jobbik, can ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Can you hear the voice of the Hungarian Medical Chamber? In response to the Minister's absence, Minister Bence Rétvári asked for an answer. I'm asking if you'll take it.
u2021-11-15-115	Yeah.
u2021-11-15-116	Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-15-117	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This is not the first time I have brought the position of the Hungarian Medical Chamber to Parliament. I now refer to Dr. László Szijjártó, president of the organization in Győr-Sopron County. [[14.00]] According to him, because many nurses and doctors have resigned or retired, the shortage of professionals is critical. He believes the health care system is in a worse position than during the third Covid wave. The lack of nurses would be somewhat helpful if the sixty volunteers who have learned to feed, drink, make beds and communicate with patients were involved in county care. Unfortunately, he finds that hospital management is shutting down from volunteering. I think it would be appropriate for the health government to address this particular issue. Tamás Swede, secretary of the MOK, analyses the situation in his writing "Reality where the shore breaks" published on the Chamber's website. Of course, he is pleased that medical salaries have increased, but this has stopped taking care of extra care in a number of places, one of the main motivations for performing second jobs. The settlement of on-call fees continues to take place, and the on-call system is wobbly, collapsing, and the reduction in the number of employees makes the work of classes impossible. In writing the secretary of the Chamber, the diagnosis of health in Hungary is summarised in seven points, partly proposing therapy. I ask you, Secretary of State, can you hear the voice of the Hungarian Medical Chamber? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-15-118	Thank you very much. Secretary of State of Rétvár, please.
u2021-11-15-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to quote the President of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, Gyula Kincses, who said in a previous statement: . Without lolking, I can say that we have received an outstanding wage increase, in accordance with our request. So when you ask the Government to hear the voice of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, this is also an example of the fact that the Hungarian Medical Chamber came to the government with the proposal for a pay table, the government did not change the only number, took nothing from it, did not add anything, but accepted the Chamber's proposal for a pay table, which was perhaps one of the most important issues in the past period, as the Chamber submitted, as the Chamber did. All this has given us the opportunity to make sure that both the Chamber and all the people's basic demands for gratuity money to cease, we have managed to get the gratuity money out of the health institution system, honourable Member. So the government is constantly coordinating with the Chamber, most obviously with the National Chamber, and we are constantly taking their proposals into account, and the National Hospital Directorate-General is also taking their proposals into account. This is due to the fact that there has been a historical wage increase in Hungarian health care, since in 2010 the gross salary of a beginner doctor was 129 thousand forints, this year it will be 481 thousand forints, next year 619 thousand forints, and after next year 687 thousand forints. A doctor working 30 years ago at the beginning of our administration had a gross basic wage of HUF 225 thousand, which is now 1 million 256 thousand, next year it will be 1 million 615,000, and from 2023 it will be HUF 1 million 794 thousand, and the pay of nurses will also increase by 72 percent in this period. The best way to ensure replacement is obviously the wage increase: next year we will spend HUF 239 billion on health wage increases [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] - in agreement with what the Chamber suggested. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-120	Congressman, one minute.
u2021-11-15-121	Mr. Secretary. You don't seem to have to wait for the propaganda center to tell you what the right answer to a reluctant question is, as the one-time mayor said at the Fidesz Convention. You know what to do: to steer, not to answer the specific question. I also quoted that the secretary of the Chamber was very pleased to see the increase in salaries. I would add that when we voted on this here, the Chamber did not know one thing: after all, what all duties will be imposed on them in the medical service. And by the way, you're talking about the money being spent more, and I quote the recent report of the Hungarian National Bank: in Hungary, health spending is far below the EU average, below the average of the other three Visegráds in proportion to GDP, and since 2010 in the case of Hungary [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] a slightly decreasing trend can be observed. So much for financial expenses. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-15-122	Secretary of State, one minute.
u2021-11-15-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you look at how health expenditure has evolved over the past decade, you will see that health expenditure has more than doubled. If you have looked at the figures of the developed countries that we want to achieve, how the average stands, and how Hungary stands, then you can see that this lag is falling year after year, and Hungary is able to spend more and more in health expenses, because Hungary finally does not have left-wing economic policy. But I want you to answer one important question, as long as we're talking about health care. This affects expenses, medical numbers and everything: your left-wing health politician, Imre László, said that 45 percent of hospitals should be closed. This affects everything you've said in every respect, the number of doctors, the number of nurses, the quality of care, the possibility of on-call, and you haven't said anything in the last year that this wouldn't be the case, it wouldn't be the left-wing plan, it wouldn't be a reduction in the number of hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Balczó: I can answer, I just don't have a chance.]]
u2021-11-15-124	Thank you very much. I would inform the public that you said, Congressman, that you could answer, but you have no opportunity. That's exactly what he did with the house rules, so he can't say anything. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, How many more people have to die? It's an address. I would like to inform Congresswoman that, due to the absence of the Prime Minister, Gergely Gulyás has given her the right to reply to the Prime Minister's Office. Do you accept this as a response, Congresswoman?
u2021-11-15-125	I accept, Mr. President.
u2021-11-15-126	There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-11-15-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of State, The first vaccine against the coronal virus was given to the first patient on 27 December 2020. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It wasn't given to a patient, it was given to a healthy person!]] Since then, 5 million 999 thousand people have received the first vaccine, 5 million 774 thousand people have received the second vaccine, which means that about 220,000 people have not taken the second vaccine, and 1 million 594 thousand people have received the third vaccine. We can now say here, after the outbreak of the fourth wave, that the profession yells and yells at the government every day to make the necessary decisions that should be made. Minister Gulyás told the Austrian press today that we have a weapon against the pandemic. Minister, where is this weapon? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In our shoulders!]] In addition to ordering masks on public transport and giving employers the opportunity to make vaccination mandatory, nothing has happened, not even one very important request of the profession not to politicians, to the profession! To make masking mandatory everywhere. We know very well that you are measuring everything, and it is not the disease management that is important now, but that they remain popular in 2022, and that they do not make decisions for the population that they do not want. Only, Minister, we have lost 32 171 of our countrymen so far, a one-year-old child died last week, now a four-year-old child. How many more people have to die to hear what the profession asks of you? It's not the politicians. It's the profession. Answer me that, Minister.
u2021-11-15-128	Mr. Gergely Gulyás is next. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the data was quoted precisely by the fact that today we have exceeded the 6 million first doses, but I have emphasized quite often before the public that the two vaccines also provide adequate protection for six months, seven to eight months. So we would like to encourage everyone here to take the third vaccine after six months. This weapon against the vaccine, that's what you quoted from me correctly, Congresswoman. [[14.10]] If the question is where this gun is, it's in your shoulder and in my shoulder and in the shoulders of all those who injected the vaccine. We can say that today's maximum protection is enjoyed by those who received the second vaccination within six months or who have received the third vaccine. It is our shared responsibility to encourage everyone to be vaccinated. I have also said it several times, but I would be happy to repeat it, because this is justified by the fact that the Hungarian government and Hungarian health care have done everything they can to protect people's lives during the period behind us. At the same time, I think that using people's deaths as a political tool is extremely unethical, so I can only say that, of course, it is everyone's own responsibility to take vaccinations. If a person takes the vaccine and does not pass for more than six months, the maximum protection available is guaranteed. I would not particularly like to go in that direction, because I would do what I would do, Madam Congresswoman, that if Hungary had not been vaccinated so quickly, if we had not bought vaccines from China and Russia and listened to the Hungarian opposition, thousands of people would have been victims of the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-130	Thank you very much. Congresswoman, one minute.
u2021-11-15-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, If you had a gun in your arm, you wouldn't be sitting here right now. He's got a vaccine in his arm. I've got shots in my arms, not guns. Stop it! Stop it! We listen every day to you at war. You don't have to go to war. You have to do what the profession says. There is no contact research in Hungary, you admitted that, Minister. They don't even follow quarantine anymore, they don't get it done. All you're saying is that everyone needs to be vaccinated. I'm telling you, the simple request or demand from the profession is not being met to make masks mandatory everywhere, at shops, at events, everywhere. Minister, you don't want to, because you know very well, because you measure on a daily basis what people want not to do. It's just that it's a lot more responsible when someone's on the government, and that's the way to treat an epidemic. Minister, I'm going to ask you one more question to calm me down before we go home: when will the Kiskunhalas epidemic hospital open? It was supposed to open on the 10th. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's what you announced, and that didn't happen. I hope you can tell me why. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-15-132	Mr. Secretary's rejoinder in one minute.
u2021-11-15-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Congresswoman, I still think I remember what I said at that time and in my mental state. I said about opening the hospital in Kiskunhalas that as soon as it becomes necessary, it will open. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No, on the 10th!]] without a specific date, and of course that's true. Capacity is available in health care, and all patients can be treated at the highest level available in medicine today. And, of course, if we need the capacity of the hospital in Kiskunhalas, and unfortunately, it seems necessary, then, of course, this will open. As for the use of masks, there is also a requirement to use masks here in Parliament. In my area, which is the regional administration, we ordered the use of masks in customer services. So there are responsible leaders everywhere who can decide whether or not the use of masks is justified. But I would like to make it clear once again: the use of masks [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the vaccination is not triggered and the contact study does not make sense for the vaccinated and therefore there is no longer such obligation for the vaccinated. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-134	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, MEP László DK and Szakács, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question, which was asked by the leader of the Group of the Democratic Coalition to address the question:. What personal responsibility does Mr. Minister feel in the deep flight of the forint? Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-11-15-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. We could start by doing this with such a long recall and these analyses on the one hand and on the other, but I think the situation requires a little more honesty. Secretary of State, you cut down the forint, there was a euro over 365 forints several times last week. Every morning, we wake up with a stomach cramp, look at the euro exchange rate, and see what new record this low-flying, week, month, semester. I think that this is how all honest-working Hungarians feel, who see that their money is less and less, and that is how small and medium-sized entrepreneurs feel, for whom the epidemic situation and the crisis may not be enough, and they even throw the terriblely weak forints at their necks, and it hangs on them like the sword of Damocles. This weak forint is practically only good for the multinationals. You have promised the multinationals, as strategic partners, that there will be cheap and vulnerable Hungarian workers here, and there is also a low-cost labour force for the multinationals, which can be paid and left to them. Of course, you have not been idle about this, although you have not been concerned with the weakness of the forint and the forint, but with such a catfight, your ministry and the central bank led by Matolcsy, and we see, like the Starsky and Hutcha or Tom and Jerry of economic policy, trying to prove to Viktor Orbán who is the more loyal friend. But the truth is that this does not help the Hungarians, so I have to ask the question: Mr. Secretary, what personal responsibility do you feel that the worst is now the forint, and when are you apologizing to the Hungarians? Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-15-136	Secretary of State András Tállai, please.
u2021-11-15-137	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Obviously you know that the weakening of the forint is not a Hungarian peculiarity, so the regional currencies have also weakened, the Polish złoty has almost reached a rate similar to that of Hungary by 7.2 percent, but other currencies in the region have also weakened. The reason for this is obviously well-known: the reason is that Hungary has a free floating exchange rate system. The free exchange rate system means that the international market processes do affect Hungarian forints and affect the exchange rate. You also need to know, and you also know, that the government does not have any exchange rate targets, powers or tasks on this issue; there is a Hungarian National Bank. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank continuously monitors the evolution of the exchange rate and makes the necessary measures either by communicating or by raising interest rates. This was the case last June when interest was increased by 1.2 percent in four steps. The Hungarian government did not comment on the decision of the Hungarian National Bank, and will not comment now, since, I repeat, it is not a task. It is also a fact that high inflation is caused by rising fuel prices. This is also a regional problem and a regional issue. Hungary has taken the appropriate measure by introducing a maximum price of 480 HUF for three months. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-138	Congressman's rejoinder in a minute.
u2021-11-15-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It seems to me that this catfight with the central bank will continue, and that's all you have to support. I don't like reading enough Matolcsy, at least he wasn't with us at the last meeting of the Economic Committee, where I asked the President of the Central Bank the same question about why they didn't care about the exchange rate. I know the central bank has a price target, everyone knows it makes 170 billion forints a year, of course it wants to be affected! But he denies it. Imagine, Mr. Secretary of State, Matolcsy, the President of the Central Bank, said that he has neither influence nor task in the development of the exchange rate of the forint nor ability and purpose. He said exactly what you said. Then tell me, who cares about the exchange rate of the forint? ! Who cares about giving 250 forints for one euro, or giving 365 forints for one euro? 'Cause so far, I see neither the central bank nor the government wants to deal with this.
u2021-11-15-140	Mr. Secretary. [[14.20]]
u2021-11-15-141	Thank you. Look, Congressman, you may be right that the exchange rate is not as much as in Hungary, but we are not there yet, as at the time of your administration Ferenc Gyurcsány was the Prime Minister to drive 2 million families into foreign exchange credit, and then we leave them behind, and there is a rise in the exchange rate, and that, no, it will become a social and economic problem, because people cannot pay the currency loan. Now, we are not here, because this government has brought people out of the foreign exchange crisis, and Hungary's vulnerability has been stabilised from foreign exchange credit. The Hungarian people now need not fear what you have caused two million families to go bankrupt and auction everything. Of course, the exchange rate and inflation can be criticized, but the Hungarian people manage, and the Hungarian people can buy more and more, and that is the primary goal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-142	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and MEP Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given you the right to reply because of the Prime Minister's absence. I'll ask the congresswoman, she'll take it as a response. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Thank you, we will wait for the Prime Minister.]] I wish you good waiting. Although I personally don't know this for you, because it's up to you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, who wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what does the government do? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, he appoints Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. Now what, Congresswoman? [[Erzsébet Schmuck: I accept.]] He'll take it. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-143	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, How is it possible that, after ten years of the economy, which you often refer to, almost 20 percent of Hungarian society is fighting poverty? It contains sad data from the latest publication of the KSH on the standard of living of households. After eight years of decline, the number of people living in poverty or at risk of social exclusion has risen again to 1 million 752,000. Unfortunately, it hasn't changed that the greatest risk of poverty is being born into ruin. But perhaps the most shocking thing is that one out of five Hungarian children is socially excluded and endangered, i.e. 20 percent of the children. In addition, households with children are much poorer than averages, and in no family type, income per capita reaches the national average. The worst is the situation of large families, they live from 116 250 HUF gross per person. You can see that the government's family policy hasn't reached its destination, it's just for the richer, it's actually a failure. Even though the average earnings above 400 thousand forints per month were mentioned in 2020, it sounds good, but last year, an average Hungarian person lived from 147 thousand forints per month. And one of the most vulnerable sections of society is the elderly, which is unsurprising because the government can no longer provide them with inflation monitoring. Inflation is rising dramatically, and we see that Hungarian society is also breaking up dramatically. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, how did the government face this situation? What do you intend to do about further poverty in society and pensioners? Thank you.
u2021-11-15-144	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Bence Retvári.
u2021-11-15-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You're talking about the poverty of pensioners. In 2010, the proportion of people living in severe material deprivation was 16.2 percent for pensioners, now 6.6 according to the statement you referred to; 23.3 percent for people of active age, now 8; 30.4 percent for children under the age of 18; almost every third child was exposed to deprivation, now 11.3. Madam President, you are the exact one who is disproved by the numbers. However, you can also look at the same statement as to what changes have been made in those who have outstanding payments in respect of credit or housing. Their number in 2010 was 2 million 386 thousand, now 1 million 94 thousand. This means that the number of people who have problems with housing and loan repayment has decreased by 1 million,292,000. Anyone without a car for financial reasons had 2 million 288 thousand, now 1 million 319 thousand, and the number of them decreased by 969,000. If you look at how many people couldn't go on vacation, their number was 6 million 483,000 in 2010, who couldn't go on vacation for a week, now this figure has fallen to less than 4 million, 3 million 967 thousand. This means that there has been an increase of 2.5 million, according to the research you referred to, which is a Eurostat, a whole European survey, who can now afford a holiday. And if you look at the proportion of those who have an unexpected expenditure here, honourable Member, this statement, quoted by you, is counting on about 105 thousand forints, so who can pay for a washing machine change, a cooling machine change, the number of these problematic cases, who were not covered, has decreased by less than half, has decreased from 7 million 200 thousand to 3 million 400 thousand. So it's not the conclusion from the numbers you said that things have deteriorated in ten years, but, thank God, the situation has improved in ten years, and that's due to it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Among other things, one million more people work and we pay much less taxes. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-146	I'll be back in a minute.
u2021-11-15-147	Mr. Secretary, if you've brought me some data, I'll bring you some data. Now 292 140 pensioners live on less income than the poverty line. Relative income poverty has continued to increase for pensioners, with 11.4 percent in 2020 after 11.1 percent. If we look at the MÁK's data on pensions alone, that is to say, how much the state helps the elderly, then the situation is truly tragic. 40,000 people receive less than 50,000 forints per month, and between 50-100 thousand forints receive 400,000. In total, 440,000 people live on less than 100 thousand forints' pensions, meaning that every fifth pensioner is poor. So you can say anything, Mr. Secretary, these numbers are shocking. You have to go to the people and ask the pensioners what they think of your retirement policy. Thank you.
u2021-11-15-148	Mr. Secretary's rejoinder.
u2021-11-15-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You can say numbers, indeed, how many people live in severe material deprivation, but you do not add, Madam honourable Member, that when we started our government, how many people lived in this situation, in severe material deprivation. So, of the indicators mentioned above, if it is true in three or four cases, that is already the case. Nearly 12 percent of pensioners lived in 2010 according to Eurostat, and now 6.3 percent, so the number of pensioners in this type of difficult situation was nearly halved. [[Erzsébet Schmuck is shaking his head.]] You can shake your head, honourable Member, I am not making up these numbers, but I am reading these numbers from the report you quoted. You say how many numbers there are now, we say that, of course, we will continue to reduce it, but only we can reduce it. 'Cause what did you guys do? They were raising rent. Will that reduce or increase poverty? It's growing. They took away the 13th month's pension, and we're gonna rebuild the 13th month's pension. Your action reduced the money in the pensioner's wallet. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Ours is still increasing, honourable Member. If you were to get back in power, these numbers would unfortunately crawl back to the height they were in 2010. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-150	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry about the congresswoman, we still have the freedom to shake heads in our country, so you can shake your head whenever you want. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: For now!]] Member Sándor Burány, Congresswoman Timea Szabó and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on here? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Prime Minister's Chief Minister, was entitled to reply. I ask Congressman Burány to accept it as a response. [[Sándor Burány: Unfortunately, we can't.]] Well, let's all feel sorry for each other. But you're not, because you're gonna have to ask the next question right away. I would like to inform you, Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, that you would like to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: what would you like to do about inflation? In response to the absence of the President of the National Bank of Hungary, Vice-President Barnabas Virág gave the right to reply. Do you accept, Congressman, the responder? [[Sándor Burány: I can do that.]] Pleasure. Here you go. [[14.30]]
u2021-11-15-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, The Magyar Nemzeti Bank also treats it as a fact that inflation must be lived up to, according to reports, it is no longer a question of long-term inflation, but the question of how much inflation will be. In view of the fact that the market is expecting another 15 percent increase in the price of bread, we are talking about another increase in the price of bread that has increased by nearly 30 percent over the last three years. Unfortunately, the price of bread is not even the record in the past one or two years of domestic inflation, as gas oil, fuel prices have increased by more than 30 percent. At least as great a blow for households is that the price of food oil has increased by more than 30 percent, the price of basic food has generally increased significantly, we are talking about vegetables, fruits, but also pastas, and we are also talking about flour derivatives in general. This is becoming an increasing burden on families. The government took action in terms of gas oil and fuel prices, introducing a transitional ceiling of 480 forints per litre, but with the same effect a ceiling could be introduced in addition to the price of gas oil. Obviously, this cannot be done by product under market conditions. The primary objective of the Hungarian National Bank is to prevent inflation. I therefore ask Mr Vice-President what the Hungarian National Bank intends to do to curb inflation. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-11-15-152	Thank you very much. The Vice President of the National Bank of Hungary, Mr.Bornabás Virág, responds. You have the floor, please.
u2021-11-15-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to start by saying that inflation today is the number one public enemy of economic policy, not only in Hungary, but everywhere in the world. In recent months, we have seen inflation rise to decades of peaks, let me just mention a few figures: inflation in the United States of America is 6.2 percent, inflation in Germany is 4.6 percent, in Spain 5.5 percent, in our region, in Poland 6.8 percent, in Estonia 7.5 percent. The Hungarian data fits into this line. This shows that the rise in inflation is essentially driven by global factors. Since the beginning of the year, transport costs have increased tenfold and gas prices have now increased three to three and a half times on the world market. This is the medium in which the central bank, as you have stressed, must achieve its objectives of price stability. We can say that against this enemy, what we see now as inflation, who takes the first step, will have a chance of winning earlier, and this is true of all aspects of economic policy. To talk only about the central bank branch, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank started its base rate increase cycle in June 2021, responding precisely to these inflation problems. So, at a time when the central bank started to fight or take appropriate action against the rise in inflation, the debate was still about whether the rise in inflation would be permanent or temporary. Many still see that it is a temporary phenomenon that does not need to be fought. We have already taken the first step in June, since then the base rate has increased by 180 basis points, and we will continue on this path until we restore a 3% inflation rate in Hungary, i.e. an inflation rate consistent with price stability. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-154	Congressman, I'll be with you in a minute.
u2021-11-15-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President has obviously read today's paper by his boss, the President of the Central Bank. I think it was published in the Hungarian Nation, but it was taken over by several newspapers. In this, the President of the Central Bank not only writes about global effects, but also about the fact that Hungary has developed an imbalance, partly in public finances, and partly in foreign trade, there are growing indications that we have to face the twin-deficit again in Hungary. He therefore urges a turn of events, and urges that action be taken as long as possible. In particular, it suggested that state prestige investments should be rescheduled, which it strongly recommends reconsidering. From what you're saying, I've just come to the conclusion that if this goes on, we're looking at further interest increases. But right now, I'd like to ask you here in front of the Parliament that you agree with your boss and you think that imbalance is what we should remedy in the short term to save the future. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-11-15-156	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President's rejoinder in one minute.
u2021-11-15-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my previous reply, I have already indicated that the first person to take action in all sectors of economic policy will have the opportunity to win against inflation for the first time. In this regard, the position of the Hungarian National Bank is clear and uniform: we must strive to restore balance in all areas of the economy. This is true of inflation itself, and this is true of our labour market, where the low unemployment rate has already been restored, and this is also true of the budget and the current balance of payments. The Hungarian economy can only remain sustainable on the growth path if economic policy in these areas together seeks to restore balance. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-158	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Vitályos, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: . What would the energy policy of the left cause in Hungary? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll take it.
u2021-11-15-159	Yes, thank you.
u2021-11-15-160	You have the floor, please.
u2021-11-15-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Péter Márki-Zay, the joint candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, continues to fight to eliminate the reduction of the rent. In a video uploaded to his own site, he announced that he did not want to maintain the form of the reduction in rent that Viktor Orbán invented. The joint candidate for Prime Minister of the Left further stated that the reduction of the rent has a negative impact on the environment and is also problematic in terms of justice. Péter Márki-Zay called the step "damaging" harder than Ferenc Gyurcsány, and began to withdraw with green points. The civilian government rejects left-wing energy policy and is committed to protecting the results of the reduction of the costs, for which the Fidesz fraction grants all support to the government. Here I have to say that if the government were to introduce market prices forced by the left, an average Hungarian family would pay more than HUF 386 thousand a year, when consumers already pay 40 percent of the international price and 30 percent of the market price of gas. Left-wing governments were on the side of multinationals and large energy companies against Hungarian consumers between 2002 and 2010 and allowed to raise electricity and gas prices 15 times. The price of gas thus increased by 206 percent, the price of electricity by 97 percent, while in the last eight years the cost of overhead has not increased but decreased. Last week, it was announced that the government will fix the price of petrol at an upper limit of 480 forints from 15 November. This means that petrol and diesel can be cheaper than this 480 HUF, but no more expensive. We hope that fixing the price ceiling will help the economy and help to reduce inflation. Dear Secretary of State, We regard left-wing declarations that the reduction of the overhead costs is not sustainable as damaging. The government remains committed to maintaining reduced prices for consumers. I would like to ask you what the energy policy of the left would do in Hungary. Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-11-15-162	Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, please.
u2021-11-15-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is true that Péter Márki-Zay is a true left-wing politician, and the Hungarian left is always and always political against the reduction of the rent. They have never looked at the interests of people, but of companies, service providers and their owners. It is a strange left, of course, here in Hungary, but unfortunately this is what we have. Madam Member, it is also clear that energy matters in Europe are indeed bad, there is an energy crisis, and Brussels' bad decisions have led to a crisis of energy in Europe. The price of natural gas on European markets increased by 400 per cent over a year and the price of electricity increased by almost 100 per cent on average. [[14.40]] And we can also see that the Hungarian left still does not face reality, they are blowing a stone with Brussels. Péter Márki-Zay called the reduction of the rent a communist idea, he said that the reduction was stupid, and he does not want to stop the increase in energy prices, because if electricity is expensive and gas says Péter Márki-Zay, it can encourage people to save energy. He says that everyone must feel the price of energy increase, he also cynically says that people should use less water, gas and electricity. It's not the bun, it's the big, old left-wing saying. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Your rewrite. They support Brussels' plans to raise energy prices and demand market price regulation for the left by the candidate for Prime Minister and for each left representative. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] This is the case, which means that if the left and their rainbow coalition comes to power, then yes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The utilities would fly again in Hungary, no matter what Z. Kárpát Dániel shouts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2021-11-15-164	Thank you very much. The congresswoman's rejoinder in one minute.
u2021-11-15-165	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply, and I think that we should continue to stand up for the reduction of the rent. At home, there are about 45,000 households in Pilis Dunakanyar. If we were not able to protect the result of the reduction, we would be left in this region, from Üröm to Visegrád, from Budakalasz to Pilisvörösvár with more than HUF 17 billion a year in the pocket of the families. Tell them, dear pilis-dunakanamarias, we and only we are able and ready to protect the low overhead. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Only the State Party knows!]] And so help me God, I won't let any of these families get scratched again after 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party! Long live the party!]]
u2021-11-15-166	Mr. Secretary's rejoinder.
u2021-11-15-167	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Like you, the Hungarian government remains committed to maintaining reduced, affordable energy prices, because this is our national obligation to the Hungarian people. This obligation is ignored by left-wing politicians who want to implement Brussels' plans and not only want higher energy prices in Hungary, but would also burden Hungarian people with new taxes, who simply want to travel or heat their own homes. We will not allow this, we will protect the results of the reduction of the rent, as in recent years the measures of the reduction of the rent have left some HUF 2200 billion in Hungarian families. This is serious money, these results are in serious danger, but we will continue to protect them from the Hungarian left and Brussels bureaucrats. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2021-11-15-168	Dear Parliament, Before we go any further, allow me, on your behalf, to welcome our guests from Tisataryan with respect and friendship. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. István Hollik is next; the representative of the KDNP wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. When does the EU finally pay for the protection of European borders? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Németh was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2021-11-15-169	Yes, I accept, thank you.
u2021-11-15-170	You have the floor, please.
u2021-11-15-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Europe is in a very difficult situation, with several crises at the same time. Here is the energy or overhead crisis, from which, thank God, the reduction of overhead can protect Hungary. Here's the pandemic, and the third shot is the answer to that. However, the migration crisis has been with us for six years now. This crisis differs from the rest in the fact that this is a prolonged crisis, so it started six years ago, but it continues to this day, and unfortunately there is a price to pay for the United States of America's withdrawal from Afghanistan, which is why we know that this migratory pressure will not decrease to Europe, but only increase. This is what the Hungarian figures show, as in the last month there have been nearly five thousand illegal attempts at border crossings on the southern border of Hungary. At the same time, this proves what we have been saying for six years, that only border fences can protect the southern borders of Europe and Hungary. And unfortunately, on the Polish border, we see the same scenes that we have seen six years ago here at the southern border of Hungary, but one thing is different: today no one doubts the legitimacy of border fence construction. How can I, since fences are now being built in many European countries, including Spain, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, as they know that this is the only way to stop migration. I would ask the Secretary of State how much money has been spent so far by the government over the past six years on the southern border fence and on protecting Europe's borders. And perhaps even more important question: when will you finally pay [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the EU to protect its borders? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-172	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Németh, please.
u2021-11-15-173	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The problem may be even more serious than we could have taken from your comment, because we have a problem with will, with the will of the leaders of the European Union, Brussels, and this is also added to the cooperation of the Hungarian left. Let us say this: Brussels and the Hungarian left are clearly pro-immigrant, clearly they want the fence to end, and they clearly want the immigrants who have been detained there to say the exact numbers, by the way, that this year, how many of them should come in, because they think that is right. And that is why there is no source from Brussels to protect our borders. The numbers are as follows. Remember, in 2015, when this migrant crisis hit the country completely unexpectedly, this migration, more than 400,000 people were crossed across the country, with a total of 270 thousand people who were bitterly identified, and we don't even know where the others were fortunately headed to the west, or were able to pass through with our help, but everyone remembers what happened in the Csongrád farms in Budapest at the East. Well, since then it has cost Hungary a billion forints a week, we have spent nearly 600 billion forints on protecting Hungary, which guarantees not only the security of Hungary, but the security of Europe as a whole, because in the Schengen Treaty we have agreed that Europe's external borders will be built in the south, where we have built the fence, and we have deployed the police and the military, and we will protect our borders with the most modern technical means, that we will do so in all circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-174	Congressman's rejoinder in a minute.
u2021-11-15-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. Unfortunately, I have to agree with you that it is clear that the European Commission is not even cynically worthy of us to respond, it is doing this by saying that Hungary was the only one in Europe, the Hungarian government that asked its citizens whether they wanted to see immigrants in Hungary or not, and most Hungarians said that immigration must be stopped, so there is a social mandate for the government, and, despite this, Brussels is not paying anything for border fences. They may insist that the Hungarian left who really is pro-immigration will win the next elections, break down the fence quickly, and then they will no longer have to finance it, but if that is what Brussels is hoping for, they will be disappointed, because next April the Hungarian people will show that they will not ask for immigration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-176	Secretary of State in a minute.
u2021-11-15-177	I agree, Congressman, with your last sentence. We must defend our borders ourselves and protect them the way we have done throughout Europe several times throughout history. Let me draw attention to the fact that a Bavarian politician named Franz Josef Strauss said in 80 that Europe is an economic giant and that in politics it is a dwarf and its soldiers are not the main problem here. Now, if the European Union does not have a commandable army, say, now to the Polish border or to the Hungarian border, then I think it is quite clear that the means that money means should be used should be paid, because the European borders fall within the competence of the nation states, the protection of European borders falls within the competence of the nation state, and therefore only Hungary, Poland, can decide how and in what way it protects borders, once again, which I would like to emphasise, which, by the way, also protects Berlin, Paris, Brussels, and so also Western Europe. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I agree, in 2022, it will be at stake that Hungary will have a government capable of protecting its borders. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2021-11-15-178	Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. How long will there be a luxury buy-in? In response to the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai asked the Secretary of State to reply. Do you accept, Congressman? [[For signal:]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-179	Mr President, Dear House, I am very interested in the opinion of Mr Tállai, Minister of State, after we have compared prices in Irish and Hungarian shopping. Indeed, Minister of State, we have seen and tell me about this, more precisely from the background, that toast bread may be more expensive in the Hungarian store than in Ireland, in the store of a British chain of stores of rice of one kilogram... also at a price higher than in Ireland, and according to the excellent collections of g7 and other portals even onions in certain units are more expensive in Hungary than in Ireland, where the minimum wage is more than three times as much as that of Hungarians even after your increase. Meanwhile, Ireland supports access to basic food for all who lack it with special and reduced keys. In Hungary, on the other hand, the 27 percent EU record VAT rate is very, very high in food, and the key has been selectively reduced to one or two, but this has been relatively rare in terms of price reductions, because the solution would be to reduce VAT to 5 percent for all basic foods, because the black economy should not play with the dark situations caused by the different keys. The fact is, Mr State Secretary, this year you have collected more than HUF 400 billion of taxes from the Hungarian people than your expectations of income for this period. So there is money in the register that would be enough to reduce the VAT content of all basic foods in its entirety, and obviously our aim is to reduce the price, this is the responsibility of the government at all times, but there is also a solution to that. The question therefore arises, Mr Secretary of State: how long does the state intend to profit from the most difficult Hungarians? How long will you sacrifice your purchases with EU record VAT, or will you finally have the courage to act in behalf of those citizens who are being institutionalised to be robbed? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-15-180	Secretary of State Tallai, please.
u2021-11-15-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He's demanding the VAT cuts very strongly now, but when the government presents the bill, the eggs, the poultrymeat, to Parliament, I could tell you more, then you'll forget to vote. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Haha!]] So how's that? Jobbik stands up, demands a VAT reduction, and when it needs to be voted on, does not vote on it. And when he said the comparison with Ireland in his speech, I have so many comments that Hungarian people live in Hungary and in Hungarian relations. And under Hungarian conditions, they don't live so badly. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel laughs.]] Since 2013, you can laugh at this, the macro numbers show that Hungarian people can buy more and more, more consumption. More consumption is due to the fact that inflation may be higher in times of crisis and that inflation has been balanced since 2010, and now the coronal virus epidemic has indeed increased inflation, not only in Hungary but also in the world and in Europe. But the Hungarian government answers this in such a way that it increases, encourages the economy to increase incomes and not just incomes, but real incomes. That is why Hungarian people can buy more. There are many ways in which Hungarian economic policy has achieved the ability of people to buy more, even if the price of a product is higher. Now, for example, raising the minimum wage will help [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The minimum wage will be 200,000 forints in Hungary, and the guaranteed minimum wage will be 260 thousand. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-182	Thank you. Congressman, one minute.
u2021-11-15-183	Mr President, Dear Wallet, If I didn't know Mr. Secretary of State, I'd think I was talking to a religious fanatic, to whom I could say anything, he'd fly off. Secretary of State, the 200,000 minimum wage, I just told you that after the raise, it's not worth a third of the Irish minimum wage. Wake up! Romanian GDP per capita is just ahead of Hungarian. We're going to be EU hosts for wages. You compete with knowingly keeping Hungarian wages low, knowingly holding Hungarian forints weakly, and quite amazingly in an agricultural country you allowed a more expensive price environment than in states where everything needs to be imported from abroad. It is quite amazing that there is a price increase in the most brutal basic articles... everywhere there is inflation, Mr. Secretary of State; explain to me why Hungary is almost the highest in Europe. What have you done from an agricultural country? What self-destruction is it that you have done to consciously keep the wages of Hungarians low for the sake of multinationals? ! There's the extra tax income in the register that could reduce the VAT on all basic foods. Face the problem and do it for the Hungarian people! Throw away the Bolshevik production report [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 'Cause that's where he belongs. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-11-15-184	Mr. Secretary's rejoinder in one minute.
u2021-11-15-185	We're used to you saying the truth, the truth, or you don't have the guts to say it. Instead, you say things that aren't real. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Disprove!]] For example, Ireland did not have a real wage increase above 7 per cent in 2016; 8.3 per cent in 2018 and 7.7 per cent in 2019 [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] , and 6.2 in 2020 If you know economics so well, you should also know what real income is. It means that no matter how high the price increase is, people have higher incomes and can buy more of them and live almost better. Just because you're usually personal in your rejoinder doesn't mean it's true. From 2013 onwards, incomes in Hungary exceed [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the price increase, so there is real income growth, so people can buy more. That's true even if you don't admit it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-186	Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question, "The Obesity of Drunk Officers." Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Németh was entitled to reply. I'll ask Congressman Bellozó if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] Bravo! Here.
u2021-11-15-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Russin-Sendi Romulus, the commander of the Hungarian Army, in his interview with Spirit FM Base Jump, said:. Example must be shown, this army is no longer the People's Army, when obese, drunken officers lead the ranks under alcohol influence. It's a professional force, and we have to act like one under all circumstances. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Secretary of State, I have two brief questions: the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, agrees with the generalizing and demeaning remark that Commander made to the officers of the Hungarian Defence Service before 90, is it clear that they are practically drunken officers who led the ranks under alcohol influence? If not, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether this comment by the commander was already a manifestation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which behaves professionally in all circumstances. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-11-15-188	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
u2021-11-15-189	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. President. The Fidesz-KDNP government respects and honors our soldiers, we develop the defence, we rebuild the once famous Hungarian military industry. The Hungarian social need, strong government will and the defence budget are also guarantees. By the way, we need a good plan for implementation, this is the Zrinyi defence and military development programme, and we need the highest military leaders who, by setting an example for their subordinates, are loyal to their country to the end, they fulfill their oath of duty every day, physically, mentally and spiritually prepared, are sufficiently courageous and committed to increasing the strength of the Hungarian forces. [[15.00]] I know Lt-Gen Russin-Sendi Romulus, the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and that's why I supported his appointment, and that's why I'm here in the National Assembly against such a naughty and vile attack as Tamás Harangozó, a member of HRB, and earlier Ágnes Vadi, Vice-President of HRB, former Secretary of State for Defence, considered himself acceptable. They attacked the entire military force through their commander's false malfeasance, professional, contractual and reserve soldiers who serve their country day after day, defend Hungarians, if necessary, against the coronal virus, against migrants or even in Afghanistan, when they were rescued. What is new is this political atmosphere of Gyurcsány, where nothing is expensive, but not even the protection of the country. When the left was in power, he committed more harsh insults to the defenders of the country, deliberately and systematically destroyed the Hungarian Defence Forces in numbers, military capabilities, and social respect. If they came back in 2022, they'd continue this destruction in the same place. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] where they left off in 2010. We're not gonna let that happen. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-190	Congressman's rejoinder in a minute.
u2021-11-15-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Are you in your right mind? ! Or was he smart enough to write this shit down for you? That's what the commander of the Hungarian Army said, not me, him. I asked him that the Hungarian Ministry of Defence agreed with the words that describe the Hungarian soldiers, the soldiers who served before 90, as officers of drunken and drunken soldiers. You know who? Among other things, your minister, who served as an officer in this defence from 81 to 90, and, for example, my grandfather, who served as a soldier his whole life and was installed before the war. These people can't help what politics does, you should know best, swearing their lives to protect the country. So this guy comes in here and says they're drunken officers? And you have the answer to what you've just done here? Here's a sensible, straight line. You respect, respect and stand up for your commanding officer, I understand. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But let's just say that you don't agree with those words, because you've insulted a lot of people and you've insulted a lot of people because you stand up to them like that. Thank you for listening. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2021-11-15-192	The Secretary of State's rejoinder in one minute.
u2021-11-15-193	Thank you very much. Well, I see that the drug has gone off the rails, Your Honour, so you didn't understand what the commander said, and you probably want the Hungarian Army to be in such a state. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó is leaving. Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Don't go out there.]] I think it would be worth waiting for my answer, but if you don't care, feel free to leave if the Hungarian Defence Office is in the state in which you left it in 2010. The commander said that this is a different-spirited defence, a defence which has set itself the goal of becoming the most powerful, modern army in the region by serving officers loyal to his country. What's wrong with that? I think it's nothing, but it hurts you, Your Honour. And we stand by our commander, we stand by the Hungarian Defence Forces, and we stand by the committed work that our soldiers do every day to protect our country and to represent Hungarian interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-194	Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Győrffy, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas granted the right to reply. I'll ask Congressman Győrffy if he'll take it. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-195	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, I give as much money to Péter Márki-Zay as he asks for, said László Bige fertilizer king these days. As you know, the drastic increase in fertiliser prices has shaken the entire Hungarian agriculture and food industry. The price increase has a number of components, and the domestic market has been shaken by fertiliser cartels, and invaluable damage has been caused to tens of thousands of Hungarian farmers and millions of consumers by fertiliser cartels. In agriculture, the rise in the price of fertilizers significantly increases costs, which, in addition to crop production, also occurs in livestock production and in the food industry. Previously, a farmer spent 50-80 thousand forints per hectare on fertilizer, currently between 200 and 250 thousand. Due to significant price increases, many will not be able to reach the desired crop level, and this will forecast an additional increase in food prices. With all this in mind, the attitude and cynicalism that the Bige group has cornered the Hungarian economy and its own partners for years. The extent of the damage to Hungarian citizens and domestic farmers caused by cartels cannot even be estimated, since it is an input material that is essential for agricultural production. Fidesz sees rural Hungary as the country's base, a valuable resource. We find incorrect profiteering on farmers unacceptable. I will give as much money to Péter Márki-Zay as the red baron asks, who expects the survival of his law-breaking machines from the power of the Gyurcsányist left, and is willing to sacrifice any amount of other people's money. For there is no doubt that the billions acquired by the fertilizer king come from the money of farmers and consumers who pay extra costs in food prices. The forming left-wing cartel is taking money from people of good faith. Dear Deputy Minister, I ask you how this is possible. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-196	As discussed, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas, now responds. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I fully agree with you that rural Hungary is the valuable resource, the strongest base of our country. This is why I find it particularly outrageous that László Bige's infringement of the fertiliser king's behaviour has caused significant damage to both his competitors and Hungarian buyers, damaging the domestic farming society, which is totally unacceptable. He did so in the hope of a high profit, by illegally increasing the basic inputs needed to produce our daily food. As fertilizer is of major importance in agriculture for field nutrient supply, the effects of the infringement could continue to spread to the food industry by increasing the costs of producers, thus damaging all Hungarian consumers. I would just like to say from practical experience as a practicing farmer, I can say that, over the past few years, we have been confused about the increase in the price of fertilizers that we did not know the background of, and now the angle has come out of the bag, and it is clear why this fact has happened. There is nothing surprising about the fact that a left-wing billionaire wants to support the left-wing Prime Minister's candidate and his campaign with money. He himself said that he supported the left-wing campaign of Péter Márki-Zay in the primary elections with some change. We all know what a red baron is meant by a small amount of damage he has done to more than ten thousand Hungarian farmers and millions of consumers. It is also obvious that he did not unselfishly support the Gyurcsány's campaign, this is just another business for him. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-198	Congressman, one minute.
u2021-11-15-199	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, for the words of support. The entire Hungarian agricultural economy was outraged by what happened due to the illegal behaviour of the Bige group. On behalf of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Associations, I respectfully ask the authorities to continue to act very strictly in such cases and to try to prevent any incorrect market behaviour that we have seen now. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable voters that in the parliamentary elections next spring, we will also decide that the rise of the Hungarian countryside will be fulfilled, as we are at the door of an opportunity due to the increased resources for rural development, which can make a lot of progress in the Hungarian countryside. Here's the alternative, we choose a road where the Hungarian countryside will be the victim of economic gains for left-wing oligarchs. There's a choice to make. Please consider it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-200	Mr. Deputy Minister, one minute.
u2021-11-15-201	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Last weekend, another news appeared, which, I think, has shocked us all, and perhaps supports our ideas so far; because, last weekend, László Bige said that Hungarian farmers can only buy fertilizer on one day, which remains, they all sell it to foreign buyers, until May they will not sell any more fertilizer to the domestic market, endangering the livelihoods of thousands of families living and working in agriculture. The left-wing billionaire quit solidarity between the players in the Hungarian economy and openly threatened the Hungarian farmers. [[15.10]] The Agricultural Ministry's firm position is that it will use all possible means in the interests of farmers, and we are looking at a number of ways to keep the fertilizer produced at home. We must take decisive action against these steps, as the development of Hungarian agriculture is essential without the use of Hungarian fertilizer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-202	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that this brings us to the end of our immediate questions and agendas today. We now have speakers off the agenda. A number of people came forward for the post-meeting speech. It's a pleasure to meet you all. First of all, Mr Fenyvesi Zoltán, representative of Fidesz, said his speech with the title of.900 years old Lesencetomaj. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Veszprém county itself and 217 settlements have a significant historical history, cultural richness and tourist economic importance, but the Balaton Uplands also excel with its geographical and natural beauty. People lived in the region even in Roman times. Due to the favourable natural conditions, the forests provided abundant food, building materials, and nearby hills with fine wines for the people living here. From the natural and geographical landscape the Keszthely Mountains rise, which lies on the north side of the Lesence Creek, the former family nest of the ancient Tomaj family, the Lesencetomaj of today 1120 people, 7 kilometers from Lake Balaton. The Tomaj family ruled the ancient estate until the end of the family's extinction. CHAPTER XVI The documents of the century refer to the settlement as Lesencetomaj, referring to the stream passing through the village. Due to the supposedly favorable location of the settlement and its immediate surroundings, it was already inhabited in Roman times. This was indicated by the inscription stone found at the border of the village in 1802, which was erected in honor of Jupiter by the soldiers of the Roman legion. The first writing, which mentions the village, is the founding letter of the Almádi Abbey established in 1121. From the cemetery next to the church came the red marble tombstone that preserved the memory of Paul Tomaj, who died in 1400. Later, more and more written records mention the name of the settlement in relation to important events and acts. In 1518 the estates of Ferenc Tomaj II. King Louis confiscated it. In 1564, the village and its surroundings were already in the possession of the Veszprém Archbishop. The Turkish conquest did not spare the settlement, the four water mill on the Lesence Creek was destroyed, and the village was slowly depopulated. In 1678 the village owner, János Lengyel, was rebuilt. The development was started by the marriage of Krisztina Tóti Lengyel with Károly Nedeczei Nedeczky, Chancellor. In 1752 the new landowner built the Baroque castle, as well as today's church from the old ruins. Development also led to a slow increase in population numbers, which in 1770 along with the nobles was 524 people. The main source of livelihood was growing grapes and chestnuts and fishing in Balaton. The last major owners of Lesencetomaj were Ferenc Hertelendy and Count István Károly. The Károly estate was in the hands of the state in 1945, the castle has been a home of psychiatric patients since 1955. Lesencetomai's coat of arms with a horizontal blue swaddling, sluggish-sleeved-sleeved-sleeved-sleeved-sleeved-sleeved-sleeved-sleeved-sleeved-sleeved-sleeve. In his upper red field, a golden griffin turned to the right, a red bear turned to the right in his lower golden field, whose neck is shot with a black arrow. From the Keszthely Mountains next to the village there is a wonderful view. The witness mountains from the Tapolca Basin, St. George's Hill, Badacsony, Gulács and Szigliget Castle, hide behind them the lake, the beloved Balaton. A number of hiking trails around the village offer the possibility of cycling, hiking and hiking. Lesencetomaj not only has his past, his history respectable, but also his present and his future. It's nice to see the clean streets, the neat spots, the building and renewable family houses. The village is beautiful, it is developing, its inhabitants feel the village is theirs. The winemakers working in the mountains not only find a living in the vineyards, but also enjoy the fact that the quality Balaton Uplands wine is a popular and happy drink of tourists. We thank the settlement for the preservation of the historical past and the Hungarian Christian European culture for nine centuries. I wish that the inhabitants of Lesencetomaj and those who labor in the mountains will find their prosperity and happiness in the centuries to come. Welcome to the 900-year-old Lesenetomoja. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-15-204	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, an independent representative will be following: å Do not be required to be a coronal virus vaccination. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unusually, I must start today's speech with a series of lies. I am not talking, of course, about my own lies, but about what you said about the epidemic, vaccination and disease management, Mr.Gergely Gulyás or Béla Merkely. Orbán said in April this year that vaccination will not be mandatory, we are not living in a dictatorship, it is a free country. But the Prime Minister also said that the vaccine is a bulletproof vest, and the virus is off it, and there will be no one left to attack the virus if we all get vaccinated. In April 2021 Gergely Gulyás said that there would be no need for a third vaccination in one of the government briefings, but Béla Merkely went so far as not to have a fourth wave with such grafting. All this was said by the rector on government posters in June 2021. Covid will not even be a quote from you in Hungary in 2022, and even the fact that the vaccine protects you for a lifetime, this statement was made in December 2020; as well as the fact that you can experience side effects up to a day or two after vaccinations. And I could go on and on until the end of the day about misleading government information and sentences that turned out to be false. I also have to draw attention to the fact that just a year ago, on 10 November last year, around 4100 new infected people a day, the government announced that virtually everything would be closed in Hungary, and now, when 8300 new infected people were vaccinated, 6 million people would not have any closure. I don't want to encourage closure at all, but we have to consider it as a confession from the government that none of this made sense, because if you think that 8300 new infected people need no closure, then what was the point of doing the same for 4100 infected people? Orbán's bulletproof vest was disproved by the Müller Cecílias, who finally published after lengthy journalistic questions how many people were vaccinated and how many were vaccinated between 1 August and the end of October, i.e. between 3 months. This is an extremely talkative statistic, because according to their information, 48 percent of the newly infected were vaccinated and 52 percent were unpopulated. But Gergely Gulyás also spoke of the fact that 45 percent of those in that hospital were vaccinated on the basis of hospital records. The fact that people have been misled, that they lied and constantly branded the undisposals is one thing, but now they have changed the method, there has been a change of method in Hungary again, because now they say that those who do not work are not to eat. [[15.20]] They're firing teachers, countrymen, firefighters, policemen who refuse to take up vaccination for any personal reasons. The employer's responsibility is a coward, but there are politicians in Hungary who would not even do this: Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, said directly that he could accept that if the employers did not make vaccination compulsory, everyone would have to be vaccinated. Our Homeland Movement is the only party that goes against this obligation. We say that no one should be obliged to inoculate in Hungary; we cannot accept any discrimination between our vaccinated and uninoculated countrymen. We're against vaccination of children, and we can't support any closure. For these purposes we also protest before the Constitutional Court on Saturday at 15 o'clock, and we confess that the undisposals should not be second-class citizens. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-15-206	Thank you very much. Now, the representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, will be next:, For how long? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-207	Mr President, Dear House, The last 12 years have been abundant in situations where the opposition has come up with large-scale proposals, but after the first rise, the public opinion was that: from the opposition, of course, you will tell us the good ideas, but it is not really possible to implement them. Luckily, the reality of this is a lot of rebuttal. The last success of the opposition, close to my heart, was that, in essence, no eviction can be ordered without accommodation in Hungary, I hope, until the elections, and then perhaps a national government of unity can solve this problem, but in recent weeks Jobbik has started a campaign spiced with a very strong demonstration, demonstration, petition. And although we do not consider the freezing of petrol prices to be a long-term solution at all, it is a symptomatic treatment that we are proposing, which opens the room for both the excise duty content and the VAT content of petrol to be reduced. Finally, a sensible war for the Fidesz-KDNP with Brussels! And we can also say that this is indeed a typical case of government from the opposition, when we forced the government to act by articulating the great buoyancy, not that it did not notice itself that there was a huge problem. We are now facing another similar situation, and this is the amazing price explosion of basic foods, and it is coming across also in the case of reports, the g7 professional portal and other internet sites, where, for example, Irish and Hungarian consumer prices are compared. There is a British supermarket chain right here, according to which the toast bread in Hungary is HUF 598, in Ireland 338. Here in the same British chain, one kilogram of rice, which can be purchased for 369 HUF, is 356 HUF in Ireland. But since we are in the former pantry of Europe, let's go out to the fruit and vegetable front: the onions, also in a 1 kg package, HUF 289 in Hungary, HUF 216 in Ireland. We are not saying that all products are more expensive than we are there, obviously not, but what we see in Ireland is that much over 600 thousand forints is the minimum income that a worker can obtain. So basically, they make sure that no one takes less than this home. On the other hand, if you look at the VAT content of basic foods, you can see that even below the 5% key, Ireland is constantly negotiating towards the zero percent, in order to be able to benefit the most difficult people in the line. And indeed, in the case of the vast majority of basic foods, Ireland is working with a significantly lower VAT key, where the income level is at least three to four times the Hungarian's, and perhaps the constant increase in prices is not as explosive as we do, not to mention the conscious weakening of the forint. Therefore, because of the negative effects on each other, which are on the Hungarians, we pay more than we should, and in other countries, which are now in a better position than we are, they pay much more attention to the fallen. There is also a very interesting figure: it is an unacceptably large number, about HUF 3800 billion. This is roughly the tax-realised revenue that the Government of Hungary has this year, mostly after buying and consuming food and articles and services. This 3800 billion in revenue, which is already in the till of the government, is hundreds of billions of forints higher than what was expected. So when this government planned a budget, it couldn't count hundreds of billions of dollars, but now it's in the register. Our experts have calculated that this amount is sufficient to reduce VAT to 5% for all basic foods. This is also useful because if one has a 27 per cent key for replaceable products and the other has a 5 per cent key, then that is an invitation to the black market, equivalent to seduction to different practices. On the other hand, reducing the key to a normal measure at the same time makes it much easier to track the market. One criticism that has arisen many times is that it is not certain that VAT cuts will also result in a fall in prices. To this end, Jobbik's proposal is to sign a code of ethics, both with large distributors and as little as possible, which makes it transparent and traceable that price changes are behind a genuine market process or not. In this way, it can be the power of the public to force traders, distributors, not to swallow the benefits of taxpayers to those in difficult queues. I can't imagine a multi-company that would destroy its own reputation in such a way that it would swallow this difference in public. That's as far as I can go behind the curtains, and I can't do it from here. Jobbik's package is ready, we put it on the table, and we expect the government to finally gather its courage on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-15-208	Thank you. Member János Bencsik, an independent Member, is the following: Here.
u2021-11-15-209	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Maybe they got used to two things from me; one is that I always try to talk about it when I find that the members of the political elite are thrown away from the everyday problems of Hungarian people and their situation in life. That's what we're talking about right now. And the other is that both myself and the civil response movement that I led from the beginning, have been carrying out a radical pro-vaccination campaign. I think I may have been the first opposition representative in the first phase of the epidemic to call on all my fellow Members, parties and factions, to promote the vaccination by putting aside political differences in one case, and not by looking at what separates us, but by finally going beyond the political trenching in this one case. Unfortunately, as you know, it didn't work. I turned to Minister Kásler, for example, in order for Members of Parliament to be the first to take up vaccination in order to set an example and encourage others. The reason for this failure on the opposition side, I think, was that it was irresponsible and trenching on the part of the governing party, so as not to create a national unity by chance, but rather to increase the division in the country. Nevertheless, I think it is very important to hear the voices of those who disagree. It should be noted that the vaccination skeptic camp in Hungary is an existing, non-negligible camp. I have been a little absorbed in the social media of this world over the last few weeks, and you know, fellow Members, what was the news that has been going on the most in recent days? The fact that, while the Office of Parliament makes vaccination mandatory for all its employees, it does not apply to Members of Parliament. And I think it's hard to explain. The decision-makers with the highest responsibility can bypass the rules which are conditional on all other Hungarian citizens, if the employer thinks they are mandatory. And I am aware that you, who are career politicians of the past 30 years on the right and on the left, may have gotten used to being above the law, getting used to the fact that certain laws do not apply to you, which apply to everyone else, but then you can find the loophole behind every law that can be played out with your mandate, but the fact is, all things considered, I think that this is unacceptable, unacceptable and outrageous! In the Civic Reply movement, we do not want, we do not want, nor are we willing to live in a country where decision-makers adopt laws that are binding on others, whether or not they are binding on themselves. And let me add that in parentheses, and it does not only upset the vaccination critics, the vaccination skeptics, but all Hungarians with a sense of sound morality, how it is possible that what I have to do is not mandatory for those who make these laws, are responsible for enforcing these laws, and the laws are guarded against everyone equally. Explain to me one of you, please. I believe that in the current situation, when it is possible to prescribe compulsory vaccination, this is not only an opportunity for Hungarian Members of Parliament, but it is also an obligation. If a store clerk, a bus driver, or a teacher can be obliged to take vaccination, then there is no way out of this obligation for the Members of Parliament. Otherwise, how do we Members of Parliament come to expect our fellow countrymen to do something that we do not have to do for ourselves? And it is possible to look at vaccination skeptics as fools and laugh at them; it is only the case, fellow Members, that does not mean that there will be one more vaccinated people in the country, and we will not be one step closer to the end of the epidemic. [[15.30]] These people need to be convinced, not pushed down their throats, but convinced. In a way, and of course I am aware that many of you have been vaccinated in the last ten months, but I think it would be time for us to take responsibility with an act of law for our fellow countrymen, who themselves have acted responsibly, used the possibility of vaccination, and encourage those who still doubt it. It will come out now, ladies and gentlemen, because today I have done what I think a responsible Member can do: in the morning, I have submitted the third vaccination, and in the afternoon, I have submitted a resolution proposal to Parliament, which makes it mandatory, which would make it mandatory for all Members of Parliament to accept at least the first two vaccinations. So it will be revealed that within the walls of this House there will be 133 brave people who will also have the courage to push not only a button that is published from above, but also to do so, to be braver than the government, and finally to take the weight of the decision that the government has placed on the shoulders of employers, to take on their own authority and to set an example and take responsibility. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-11-15-210	Congressman Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, comes now with the title of the Hungarian Village Programme Veszprém 01 in the context of the 24 settlements of the constituency of Veszprém 01. Here.
u2021-11-15-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The government has a strong intention of developing the Hungarian countryside, and we say this not only in words, but also in actions. Veszprém county's number 1 constituency is in the fortunate position that Veszprém as a county-righted city is involved in the. Modern Cities programme, and in 2016, Mayor Gyula Porga signed the programme of Modern Cities with Prime Minister, and we can say that by 2021 90 percent of this programme has already been implemented. As I mentioned, further improvements are expected, not only in the county seat, but also in the 24 small settlements. I am very pleased that the government has launched the.Hungarian village programme. Just as we said that the program "Modern Cities" was also written by the Veszprém people, we can also say that we have tried to include the long-awaited development plans of the mayors in the Hungarian village. Vice-President Alpár Gyopáros does a lot of work in order to expand the application opportunities of the Hungarian village, year after year, and I am very pleased that the electoral district of Veszprém County No.1 is taking advantage of these tendering opportunities. I can tell this House that more than 150 successful applications have already been made in the electoral district number 1 of Veszprém County. This is due to the fact that the Hungarian village program is a real answer to a real question, and we have announced programs for which the municipalities are happy to apply. But if you look at the applications, you can see that there are now 15 types of invitations: the development of ecclesiastical communities, spaces, the purchase of tools and community-organizing wage support for church community organisation, the construction, renovation, the infrastructure development of cemeteries owned by ecclesiastical communities, the infrastructure development of municipal cemeteries, the development of kindergarten playgrounds and public playgrounds, the promotion of the activities and conditions of civil communities, the development of municipal property, the acquisition of community-owned assets and community-organizing wage support, the purchase of farm and village-sector buses, municipal sidewalk construction, renovation material support, the purchase of communal equipment, the purchase of medical supplies, the promotion of responsible livestock management and support of small-scale settlement shops. This is all a programme that the municipalities have been waiting for for for a very long time, and I would also like to say that all these programmes are implemented through state aid. In the light of the figures, I would like to highlight only one or two municipalities in my constituency, for example, the municipality of Márkó has seven successful applications, and has received a grant of HUF 156 million. The village of Úrkút received a HUF 105 million grant, Vilonya received a HUF 85 million grant, Nemesvámos had a grant of HUF 160 million, and Szentgal had ten successful applications and received nearly HUF 170 million. I think that further development of the countryside is the goal of the government, and we want to provide as much resources as possible, as more resources to ensure that rural life is as good as a metropolitan life, and I think that these government measures have achieved their goal. If we look only at small settlements in the constituency, thank God, there are new streets in every area where this is needed, and this shows that the people living there imagine their common future in the countryside. I thank the municipalities for taking advantage of this opportunity, and I thank the government for creating this opportunity, and I believe that this is still our common path. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-15-212	Thank you very much. Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes, the leader of the LMP faction, is next: our city, called Pécs 78. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that the University of Pécs is not only one of Hungary's most important rural universities, but Pécs, Baranya and one of the most important economic players in the entire South Transdanubian region. We know that the university and its associated institutions provide a livelihood for more than 6,000 people, the future of more than 6,000 families depends on the good functioning of the university. How important the university is, it can also be seen that the university's budget is nearly twice as large as the annual budget of the city of Pécs County, so the budget of the largest city in Transdanubia is doubled by the University of Pécs. And that is why it is regrettable, besides many other professional reasons, that the University of Pécs has also been the victim of government outsourcing and political direction that lied to the change of model. Unfortunately, in recent months, we have also seen that all the concerns that we have expressed and what the actors in the higher education sector have expressed have unfortunately become a reality. You can see that the conditions of the University of Pécs Senate prior to the change of model were ignored by the government, ignored by the Fidesz-KDNP faction, but we can also see that the decisions of the university's citizenship and the university's governing body and its stated requests are also ignored by the foundation, which is responsible for maintaining the university. Former Minister Palkovics has promised huge, unprecedented resources for development, and we have seen that only a fraction of this has arrived. It was also one of the most important promises that university teachers, researchers and university workers could face twice a 15% wage increase, but we can see that in most universities, even this already insufficient wage increase has not been achieved. The University of Pécs is also reported by the employees and teachers there that there is still no news of this already very low wage increase. What we've seen here in the last few weeks or even in the last few days is quite terrifying, and we can say it's outrageous and shocking. The series of ignominious decisions began here after the government outsourcing by the Senate making its request for a right of agreement on the most important decisions concerning the university, and this was rejected by the Curatorial Board of political appointees. So the board took advantage of the possibility provided by the Fidesz law and practically openly ignored university autonomy. Not long ago, a public mission financing contract between the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and the Maintenance Foundation was concluded, and this contract was not published. This had to be obtained by requesting data in the public interest, and this contract also revealed quite shocking information. It is absurd in itself that József Bódis, President of the Board of Board, signed the contract until the beginning of 2027 with his own boss as Secretary of State with Minister Palkovic. I think that this is an unacceptable situation in itself. It turned out from the contract thus published that the maintenance foundation itself, which, I repeat, has four members who are former or current Fidesz politicians or government actors, operates from HUF 400 million annually, for which there is virtually no meaningful explanation for what to use it for and how the university board, the board of trustees of the university, uses this HUF 400 million. But the most shocking information from the contract was that the public funds from the central budget, the Ministry, would not go to the university, but to the foundation. [[15.40]] So it's not the university that gets these huge sums, it's the curatorium that is maintaining and thus already under Fidesz political control. The press staff asked Mr Bodis, Secretary of State, Mr President, why. Then he simply replied because the law says so. We can say that this is a kind of self-revealing which tells the Secretary of State that the law we have drawn attention to is wrong, but, by the way, the law does not say so, so the funds could be given directly to the university. But the law is really wrong, because the board of trustees has the opportunity to be so greedy for such a level of abuse of university autonomy to make this decision without the university senate having any influence on it. So, in this respect, you are right, Mr State Secretary, that the law adopted by Fidesz-KDNP is wrong, because it gives full access to the complete disregard of university autonomy. The University's Board of Trustees held a press conference after its 100th day. There is still no specific information from the Secretary of State, Mr President, on when the wage increase will take place, so the shameful situation remains that nothing has happened to the employees, employees and teachers of the University of Pécs in terms of raising extremely low and humiliating wages. So I can confirm that, after the change of government, one of our first and most important tasks will be to restore university autonomy. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-214	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Kálló, the representative of Jobbik, may speak now:. The title of our current affairs. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-215	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. In my speeches in Parliament, I always try to show the beauty and values of our region and region. However, I would now rather report a loss of value and invite you in your imagination to Ercsi, the city of Ercsi. Why can we talk about loss of value? For Ercsi, it was a severe cut when, in 1997, perhaps one of the best-equipped sugar factories in the country went bankrupt, and the tragic fate of the Hungarian sugar factories reached the Ercs factory. It was less than a month, and in December it was announced that there was no longer a work to be done in January, so in a month that factory was discharged, a Hungarian value was lost in our district. But while we are talking about values, and perhaps we are talking about saving values, we cannot go without a very good gift from the city of Ercsi, which is also doomed to destruction at the moment, and this is the second. Ferenc Rákóczi barracks. Since I became a Member, I have been working on what we can do, how we can develop this complex, because they have been protecting the building that has been crumbling for several years. So let's understand that an empty building, guarding it, the state has spent money for several years, but there are no plans for the building. I asked the Minister of Defence of Tibor Benkő a question recently, in which I asked him that the defence wallet has any purpose, any plan with the building complex. Unfortunately, the answer was short and disappointing: Minister told me that the Hungarian National Asset Manager owns the building, and the defence does not count on any plan or purpose in connection with the building, so the owner leaves the building itself in the path of destruction. I'd like to change that. The municipality would also like to change this, so I submitted a budget amendment to the budget. 'Cause we could see it there, in this building complex, if it were to be renovated, a rental program. It would be very good for the region if our region could provide housing for young people or people in need, starters or family founders, so that the local economy would recover, not to mention the benefits of such a large-scale construction to the economic organizations there, the companies there, if we could involve them and help with the construction. That's our plan. After 2022, I hope that this will not only be a plan, but also a goal and a step to be taken, because in the present situation, the government does not unfortunately count on the building, but we are doing everything we can to ensure that these values do not disappear, rather than be of waste, rot and destruction, but we are trying to protect these values. That's what we're gonna work on. Thank you for the floor. I'll remain a servant of my district.
u2021-11-15-216	Thank you very much. Dr. Sándor Fazekas, representative of Fidesz, will be following up with a title entitled "Development of Road Four." Here you go.
u2021-11-15-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, From the point of view of the transport of East Hungary and the Great Plains, the motorway M4 and the highway 4 play an important role. Along the Budapest-Debrecen-Nyíregyháza-Záhony route more than a million people live. Over the last five years, the construction of Highway 4 into motorways has begun in several stages. At present, this is probably Hungary's largest road development investment. In the future, the motorway will connect on the Budapest-Karcag-Nagykereki-Nagyvárad route to the A3 motorway in North Transylvania, which is also under construction. In particular, it is a significant development that the four-track section was completed from Üllő to Abony and handed over in 2019, which is key for the South Pest county's approach and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, the Nagykunság county. This development can be seen as one of the very important investments in recent years, given the length of some 70 kilometres. The result is about two hours from Karcag, from Szolnok to the capital in an hour by car. It is also an important fact that Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, of the counties, has also come close to the motorway. At the moment, the construction of a 29-kilometer north bypass ring in Szolnok is proceeding at a good pace, which will allow you to travel faster and safer to the west of Törökszentmiklós. This section of the road will also significantly improve the accessibility of Abadszalók, Lake Tisza and Kunhegyes. The transfer of the investment is expected in February to March 2022 and will be completed soon. As regards the future, it is encouraging that in 2021 detailed discussions were held with the Members of Parliament, the county and the local government leaders concerned, with the involvement of local farmers and farmers' organisations on the final line of the Turkish-Karcag-Püspökladány section, so that work can start soon after the Szolnok bypass. It is reassuring that the Karcag bypass has been able to find a trail that meets both the agricultural, transport and nature conservation aspects of inland water protection. This investment is also important because there are significant job-creating developments in the region, including Karcagon. It is enough to highlight the expansion of the Penny Logistics Base in the Karcag Industrial Park, investments in waste processing and recycling for environmental purposes, and Agrisprint Kft. doubling the cooling capacity of the fruit and vegetable processor. As a result, it can already be seen that hundreds of jobs can be created in the region and that many people who have so far been able to earn adequate income in the countryside, not rarely in remote jobs. This section of the M4 will significantly improve the traffic situation of North Peaceful, including Dévaványa, Ecsegfalva, Bucsa, Füzesgyarmat, and relieve the traffic of weapons, Szapárfalu and Kenderes; it will also make significant progress for small settlements in South Hajdú-Bihar, Püspökladány, and Báránd, Földes and Sárrét. In view of all of this, our priority is to ensure that the road is developed as quickly as possible, as the positive effects of rural development and job creation can take place as quickly as possible. Thanks to the support of the government and the portfolio so far, the inhabitants of the region, social and economic players alike, look forward to continuing the road construction process. We are looking forward to the early, concrete professional and financial decisions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-11-15-218	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, will now come to the next stage: the development of Szolnok and his region with the title of infrastructure improvements. Here you go. [[15.50]]
u2021-11-15-219	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, If, as a representative, I had to prioritise the challenges and demands that the inhabitants of the settlements are making for me, then the roads would be in a beating place in terms of residential needs. There is no difference in talking about an expressway, where appropriate, about a village's inland road or about four-digit roads connecting villages, who live where, who uses which one, is obviously the most important thing for him. I think it is extremely important that the Hungarian Government treats it as a priority, as we have heard from the solo before me, to eliminate infrastructure disadvantages, and to create resources for this. In this way, we have been able to achieve significant results in Szolnok and small settlements belonging to the constituency, as transport, retention force, economic development, quality of life, we all know well, related issues. I've done a reckoning, and I have to tell you, step by step, but we're making progress. The M4 road is of particular importance to us, since not so long ago our county was one of the few counties to which there was no expressway. I would like to point out that we received only a promise from the former left-wing governments, until Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Ferenc Szalay, mayor of the county seat, signed an agreement in 2015 on the programme of modern cities, which included the construction of the M4 road between M0 and Szolnok. The first Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county section is built between Abony and Törökszentmiklós. We are not just talking about road construction, as it contains 27 artifacts, 756 meters Tisza Bridge, 110 meters Millér Bridge, 416 meters of price bridge, so we are talking about an extremely complex construction. Soon, motorists will be able to take possession of the northern bypass section of Törökszentmiklós. Besenykerög, Battle angle, Nagykörű, Szászberek, Kőtelek, Zagyvarékas for our small settlements this is extremely important, as it can create new economic potential for them. Of course, we will not be satisfied with this, since we need to be able to drive up the road on the lower roads in good quality. I would like to say that since October 2018 Magyar Közút Nonprofit Zrt. has been renovating more than 15 km long road sections around our small town. worth more than HUF 2 billion, to which Hungary's Government has provided domestic funds. After the investment, of course, traffic safety has increased and travel time has also been shortened. In the surroundings of Szolnok, 12 of our 13 settlements have a population of less than 5 thousand people, therefore the development possibilities of the Hungarian village and program are outstanding for us too. Thanks to the Hungarian government, thanks to Vice-President Gyopáros Alpár and his team, because as far as our constituency is concerned, 2 billion HUF has been allocated to the various developments in three years. In Besenyhegy, Hunyadfalva, Kőtelken, Nagyköröben, Rákócziújfalu, Szászberken, Toszzeg and Zagyvarékas roads, bridges, sidewalks, bicycle roads were renewed. If you add the large-surface road renovations provided from the .Hungarian village, then I can say with good feeling that Besenygög, Tószeg, Nagykörű and Zagyvarékas were also affected. The repair of the touching section of road 32 bypassing Szászberket is under way, and the renovation of the two sections of road 3224, is now underway to the signing of the construction contract. Regarding our constituency, this is one of the most powerful social needs-based road renovations, and the surrounding settlements are very, very looking forward to it. Of course, inland roads are equally important in villages and cities as well. With regard to the county seat, our inland roads, sidewalks, cycling paths and two pedestrian bridges, which are of particular importance for walking traffic, are continuously renewed for a value of HUF 8.6 billion. Out of 59 projects, 39 have already been completed in the city, and 20 additional project elements are under way. It is very kind of my heart that before the day of all saints and dead in Tiszayenő, we handed over the road to the village cemetery with a solid cover, the source of which is 84.2 million forints thanks to the Hungarian government. I would also like to convey the thanks of the village. We have one small town over 5 thousand people, Rákóczifalva, which cannot benefit from the development support of the Hungarian village, so it is a special pleasure that from the available HUF 300 million, it is almost unbelievable, but on all the roads of the settlement something was renovated with government and municipal cooperation. Of course, as everywhere, we have a number of ongoing cases: the renovation of road 442 is extremely important for Rákóczifalva, we are constantly working on this with the government and the Hungarian Public Road, and let us not forget that the construction of the Csáklya út bridge and the bypass of Szandaszőlősi is also ongoing. Thanks to the Hungarian government, the people who live here, and the people who work here for the infrastructure development that can be tracked, planned and implemented. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-220	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence Tuzson, representative of Fidesz, Secretary of State, says his agenda in the 5th constituency of Pest county. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dunakeszi, Fot, Göd, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház form communities that are very strong communities, make up excellent people, and contribute to the fact that this region is one of the fastest developing regions in the country, if not the fastest, most dynamically developing area in the country, they contribute to the fact that this area is a safe area, belongs to the safest areas in the country, there is a strong development, as I said in my previous speeches, and these settlements also have a strong vision. The future is extremely important, because the future is also about improvements, about developments that affect people. In this area, in this area, we have taken great care to develop improvements that serve the immediate interests of the people, the people who live there. This is why major investments have been made in the development of transport, which is why major school constructions, school renovations, kindergarten constructions, kindergarten renovations have been completed, and that is why serious health improvements have also been made in this area. In recent years, since I have been a Member of Parliament, 15 major investments have been made since 2014, in terms of health improvements and more small investments. These investments are also important because one of the most important things is the most important thing! people's health. We must also point out here that it is not only about direct healing, but also about approach! There are a lot of young people in this area, and there are many young people in sport; sports investments also help to improve health and to preserve health. If we are talking about investments that directly protect health or improve health, then we also need to talk about the development of Dunakeszi, Fót, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház. Allow me to list, without the need for completeness, some of the investments that could have been made in this area. For example, in Csomad, which is the smallest settlement in the constituency, a new health home has been created, and this health home has recently been complemented with new tools and modern tools. An old idea, an old dream, was realized in Csömör, and a new health home could be built there as well. And Dunakeszin has achieved a serious cooperation, as Dunakeszi is also the health centre of a larger area. Mr. Mayor and Mr. Zoltán Erdész have made a serious commitment, which meant that we will renew almost all medical offices, and that what is very important there, we will also renew the medical centre, the medical clinic. This renovation was carried out, both from the outside and from the inside, the specialist clinic Dunakeszin could be renewed, and Dunakeszin could also be renewed by the psychiatric care provider. In Liget Street, two new clinics were established, and in this area the rescue station could also be completed, and the city even has a new ambulance. In addition, a doctor's office could have been renewed on Dunakeszi's bottoms, and the renovation that we had long wanted to achieve on Fóti Road could have been completed. The Széchenyi Street medical office has been renewed. And if we want to talk not only about Dunakeszi, but also about other cities, we also need to mention a serious investment in Göd, because here, too, a new health home could be created against the thermal bath, very close to that. Of course, there are also investments ahead of us, which we must not forget, because Veresegyháza has a very serious and highly skilled practice centre, the Mission Health Centre, which has long been planned to be renewed. [[16.00]] We can start this renovation now. The public procurement procedure is now under way, and after that, our old plan can be implemented, and this practice can be renewed. In addition, we are planning a major investment on Foton. There, the design has already been completed, and there we would like to build a new health home. In addition, the constituency is also constantly driven by filter buses, so I would like to call on everyone who can, in order to preserve their health, also to visit these filter buses for prevention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-11-15-222	Thank you very much. A real consultation, even if not with a national title, will be presented by the representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr László Hajdu. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-223	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, On 30 September it would have been the day of local governments, because 31 years ago it was the first day of elected local governments, and on this occasion the settlements will hold annual celebrations on 30 September, and in this case some recognition will be given. This holiday has been canceled, partly due to the epidemic. For 20 years of these 31 years, local governments were financed in a normative way, so it was predictable funding, unlike what I heard from my previous pro-government fellow Members about the significant subsidies they received for an area or for a municipal constituency, which I believe is not likely to be available to just a few of the 106 individual districts, or at least not to the opposition. This is what I would like to say in my post- Agenda comment that the communication that is needed to have a talking relationship between the government and the municipality was interrupted somewhere 11 years ago, and this interruption is a very serious disadvantage for the municipalities that are on the side to which they say to be a government with opposition majority or under the control of the opposition mayor. This is a stamp, and unfortunately it also stops the possibility of freely participating in these much-spoken applications, village programmes or high-priority urban programmes, not to mention Budapest, which I am interested in, or in the districts of Budapest. We cannot, on the part of the municipality, send out eight million letters through national consultation and, without any alternative response, answer yes or no return. That's the point of consultation. The municipalities consult each day, so to speak, that on the street, on the market, wherever the local government representative or mayor goes, he cannot avoid the local electorate, so he must be consulted on a daily basis. You can call him directly on his cell phone, find him at an e-mail address in 0-24. So there is a local government in constant consultation, unlike what the government consults with us in these correspondences. It is a great pain for municipalities that when public education institutions, let's say, were nationalised or put into public treatment, children, educators and parents, they did not consult us, the maintainers. We can also say the same about the fact that hospitals for inpatient care were also taken into public treatment by county authorities or the Metropolitan Municipality, without any consultation. We can ask that public education has improved because it's centralized, and the inpatient care has improved because it's being treated by the state. Obviously, you could say no. So why can't local settlements operate these? But this is the case of a national tobacco store when local small businesses have been destroyed because they have also centralised tobacco trade and bottle drink sales. And despite the fact that Balázs Barkóczi, the candidate for a local parliamentary representative of the opposition from the Democratic Coalition, said at several press conferences last April that all these were not discussed with the local settlements, the local community cannot identify with him. These decisions, as much as we mention them, cannot be considered as part of the consultation that is called a national consultation. Overall, I would like to mention, and I asked for the floor, that when we are talking about the consultation, and today, even in the hour of immediate questions, what kind of referendum and many other consultations are being held, there should be a consultation on the future that requires a change of government, a government that is directly interested in people's opinions. Thank you very much.
u2021-11-15-224	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, will be following:, Debrecen, who can think of what? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, this is an important question, because we are pretty much aware of who thinks about Sweden, usually IKEA, and maybe ABBA. But what concerns us is, who can think of Debrecen, the second-largest city in the country. Fortunately, it is the Fidesz Member of Parliament, the Swiss knife of the party state, who immediately jumps in to many people. He's nothing but a political jolly jockey who can do anything without a diploma, as they say, everything. And here we have to make a list, but before I do that, I wish him a lot of health, because I know he's still in quarantine, fortunately, much better than at the beginning of the week. Well, who is he? He is the chairman of the National Assembly's National Defence and Police Committee, the National Vice President of Fidesz, the President of the National Cooperative Council, the Honorary President of the Association of County-righted Cities, the President of the Hungarian National Skating Federation, whoo, I'm starting to sweat! , President of the DVSC Association, strategic advisor in favour of the president of the Foundation which owns the University of Debrecen. What and what advice you can give the dozens of professors, well, that's not really clear to us, Debrecen. But among other things, he is one of the shady protagonists of the billionaire scandal in Bell. Let's just say the tangled, fairy tale case is being tried right now. However, it is not the congressman who comes to me when I think of my beloved city, Debrecen, but, unfortunately, the fact that Debrecen is remembered by the bezhegváros of Fidesz, is referred to in government propaganda as an alternative capital of the nation, but our settlement is not unlike the city of missed opportunities. The city, which is already highlighted in the foreign journals, is the highest number of hours in traffic; and unfortunately, in our city, it is possible that the traffic light has a sublight, and it also has a sublight, but all three lamps have a green light that allows traffic in practically the same direction; that the American professional newspapers show as a deterrent example the organisation of public transport in the city; that this city is the one that the country's busiest main railway tracks cut in two practically every five minutes, as almost the entire traffic of the eastern part is catastrophic by level rail crossings. Of course, I don't have to say that we, Debrecen, are already getting used to the fact that every election year of the last two decades, the pro-government, fidesz lords who have been baking their own steaks, and dusting off the promises of past cycles, again promise what they have promised at the beginning of each cycle that they will now surely resolve the problems that make the city unlivable, the elimination of the crossings of railway 100, the multi-banding or repairing of roads into the city, the rationalization of public transport. Of course, we Debrecen know this is gonna stay the same. The inbound roads, the end of the renovation of the road network, will go back to the foggy future, as will the urban section of railway line 100. However, it would be reasonable to assume that Lajos Kósa, who is still a pro-government Member, has the necessary energy, competence and perhaps sufficient lobbying power in his own government to represent the fate and interests of the 200 thousand Debrecen; that, at least once, during the work of his representatives, he does not, at least once, undermine his own business in the walls of this House, but also speak for the development of his city, our city, or do something to feel that Debrecen is not a bezengváros of the Fidesz propaganda machine, but a peaceful, liveable home of 200,000 citizens in Debrecen, where it can travel, relax, but live and engage. [[16.10]] Because that would be the expectation of a Member, Honourable House, to do everything possible for the community he represents. However, Lajos Kósa has failed so far, the representatives of Fidesz in Debrecen were too much for everyone. In this task, however, if nothing else, they have already failed, and it is time for them to leave. Representatives of the new Parliament in Debrecen, which stood up in 2022, will do this work for them, in substance and normally. Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-15-226	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, the representative of DK will be following: å What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-227	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Once again, I would like to take this opportunity to report to you on the most significant developments in the population and environment of Újpest and Angelland. It is a pleasure to hear that the last phase of the building of a municipal tenement, I might say, belongs to a house located at 25 Károlyi Street. As part of the implementation of the integrated urban development strategy, a segment will be terminated, housing renovation, housing and park construction will be carried out, and this will be the case. The implementation is progressing regularly: the floors and radiators are already in place in several apartments, the mechanical room will be ready soon, the new kitchen furniture will be continuously tiled and the new kitchen furniture will be installed by professionals. Technical transfer-acceptance is planned to begin by the end of the year and the entry into service procedure at the beginning of next year. With the permit, new residents also move into the 29-inhabited municipal tenement. With European support, we are moving towards the end in public, municipal and civil cooperation. I have often stressed within these walls how important I think it is to increase the green surfaces, and I am doing everything I can to ensure that the conditions and intentions necessary for significant development in my constituency are in place in this area. As I mentioned earlier, there is a park building in this programme, and the Újpest city administration is not to be persuaded in this respect, but rather to support and help. That is why I demand from the government that the people's government, the Újpestians, do not draw any more resources from the angelic lands, because then the municipality can not only install green walls in four more kindergartens, for example. This time the Golden Apple Kindergarten, the Vörösmarty Kindergarten, the Skin Painting Kindergarten and the Gardening Kindergarten have joined this program, which makes it possible to find such a special area in nine institutions in the buildings. I have looked at several of these myself, and I have to say that, in addition to the health benefits, fresh stains provide a very nice view for children, parents and, of course, those working there. But we're not stopping here, because if we look further into the communities of the Újpestians, we can see that everyone has the opportunity to do so in person. Last Friday there was a joint tree planting operation, a. 10 million trees Újpest-Kápásztmegyer.The group of Henkel Magyarország Kft. In his offer, he organized a plantation in the area before the Halassi swimming pool, where some 100 woodlings were planted in the ground after we had planted trees together in the school yard. We are moving towards the ten millionth tree, and the municipality of Újpest will plant nearly 600 of these trees this year, so since 2019 we have exceeded the birth of 2100 planted trees and the new life planted. For the 28th time, more than 320 competitions were received at the Hungarian Florist competition, the jury awarded a total of 49 awards, of which Újpest won the Budapest capital prize, the most prosperous district title. Újpest was awarded the capital prize with green initiatives and developments such as the Újpest Újpest, the previously mentioned institutional green walls project, the first Újpest community tanker in the Izzzó settlement, the wild grapes planted for concrete fences and the renewed Peace Square on the Fóti road and Sándor István Park in Kápszmegyer. Overall, in the financial difficulties and in the severe counterwind generated by the government, Újpest plants and green surfaces are developing, because our goal is for the Újpestians to live in a neighborhood that is as lovable, livable and environmentally sound as they deserve. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-11-15-228	Thank you very much. Dr. Anett Bősz, representative of DK, speaker:. Self-governments in financial pressure. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We can't talk enough about what's happened to the local government in the last 12 years. The local government was one of the achievements of the regime change, which gave freedom and responsibility to local communities, managed themselves, strengthening local democracy, the importance of local affairs and the principle of subsidiarity, which later became important not only at municipal but also at regional level in the European Union. However, the autonomy of local governments depends largely on what kind of funding model the current government offers them, from the fiscal frameworks that central will and local and central taxpayers create as an opportunity to finance local affairs. This includes not only day-to-day operations, but also improvements created by large-scale residents moving into each of the agglomeration settlements, an infrastructure and institutional development obligation that cannot be missed not only for the locals but also for the central government. This includes the development of local road networks, the construction of sidewalks, modern water management, which is part of the 21st century. In the first century, it cannot be exhausted simply by reservoiring, but we do need to manage water, as we need to pay attention to the clean air and how people who live in the agglomeration can use their spare time. It refers to the possibility of creating opportunities for leisure and recreation activities, social and child welfare, and cultural and local events that all municipalities would like to organise, if they were not affected by the large-scale withdrawals that we have faced here not only as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, honourable Members. It is the product of the past 12 years that the current Hungarian government has indeed created a suffocating environment for the municipalities, which in this way, almost does not matter whether, in the bled state, my fellow Members, a creative town owner or a robot are leading these cities, because the bled state is all about how these settlements operate. But without money, the creative town owner is useless. The withdrawal of a car tax or the withdrawal of a local business tax, which drastically reduced the funding framework of local authorities, are not worth anything. And in 2022, we see in the central budget and in the directives set out by the two-thirds of them that these financial problems will be maintained, so that, for example, the government has not developed any models for local governments to increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. But I will go on: what will we do with the rising energy prices, fellow Members? I have not heard one relevant answer from the representatives of the government. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, that our GDP growth is 5.5 percent, not regardless of the inflation that has been lost. The government has started the distribution policy that we have already gotten used to in the election year and has thus started buying votes. But one thing is forgotten, my fellow Members, there on the other side, and that is to say, the neglect of local governments, whether independent or from a opposition party, mayor, fellow Members, is actually neglecting citizens. It means, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not important for you to have 3 million people, it is not important that those who chose an opposition or independent mayor in October 2019, and perhaps you do not like the fact that you represent someone politically other than yourself, those people are now in a very bad situation. [[16.20]] And they won't ask why this mayor or this mayor didn't create it, and people know it very well, and they also know that these city leaders, who have been put in a bad position by you from government, will do everything in their power to meet the minimum wage increase, because they've already given extra wages to people in kindergartens or kindergartens, for example, to try to get as much as possible for those working in the local social sphere. But, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that this situation requires a change of government. I believe in him, I do my best, and you can believe that next spring will be a whole different situation. Thank you for listening.
u2021-11-15-230	Thank you very much. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, is next with the title of feudalism in communism. Here.
u2021-11-15-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian wages are quite good, it's not the money that keeps people going abroad, is it? I say: it is impossible for many people to flee the country because of the terrible Hungarian life, working and wage conditions, and their lack of prospects. Well, I'm not the one who's out of my mind, and I say things like that, and I didn't come into this Chamber in a state of alcohol influence, just as I'm supposed to be one of our fellow members of the government. No, that's what Lajos Kosa said. Well, let's just ask ourselves, what is it that drove hundreds of thousands of our countrymen away from here? What's the answer? Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State here, a good hour ago, accused the opposition of some communist mentality, saying that we are the ones who represent that position, isn't it, the Marosán György position that the bun is not the little one, but, comrades, your mouth is big. Now, let's see what the fidesz truth is about this matter. A Fidesz MEP from Jászberény said and wrote on Facebook: only the party is in the minds of most young people who work abroad, the work abroad is considered a party, they live on pot cookies, and in Hungary there is sour cream compared to foreign conditions, only you, young people, do not see this. Oops! The fact is that this is how NER's court monkeys think, as well as those propaganda prostitutes who, if any, don't pass over 1 million 600 thousand forints of advertising money to spend, throw out the window, say, a Facebook post for Jobbik. However, there is a huge gap between the window and reality, and let me draw your attention to a sociology created in the 30s, written by Zoltán Fábry, about the Czechoslovakia after Trianon, about the Highlands, Transcarpathia, and the case of Bátyu, a local, almost Hungarian settlement, where the new Czech imperium distributed the former Lónyay estate, the 3400 moons to 75 Czechoslovak colonial families, and the local Hungarian community received 2 acres of land for burial. When I hear my fellow MPs speaking here, say, about the achievements of the Hungarian village programme, which we can support by the way, it is something similar. They spread the glass pearl, they say that this village, that village, received HUF 10-20-50 million, but they are also very quiet there in South Somogy about the fact that the region's largest foreign owner's family was under their rule, so in the two thirds of the good 11 years of Fidesz, it received approximately HUF 15 billion in lower voice. Well, they don't talk about that. Well, that's one of the reasons why this strange fidesz distribution of resources is the reason for what Father Concrete, Béla Balás Kaposvári, said in the Somogyi Newspaper more than seven years ago, namely that after the extinction of the Ormany, death also came to Somogy, Somogy County, a hundred years ago. Yeah, he said hello, 'cause old age is something terrible. There's a crowd of young people running away from here, voting with their feet, and it's no coincidence. Because there are no life prospects, no normal income conditions in these settlements. What we have is one or two of them, mostly fidesz Dorks, who have become rich on the fat of their own community. What else? There is indeed an existential threat, where shut up to everyone who disagrees with the local Fidesz potentate; there is a cunning fear, because he is managing South Somogy; and there is indeed feudalism put into communism, where these orange gentlemen boast of these so-called benefits, as if we were living in the Middle Ages, and they were some kind of lords of grace, vassals, who give out some gifts to humble serfs. Well, that's what the people who live there are tired of, and I'm working for the reason that we're fighting against each other, so that in the spring of 2022 we can put an end to this orange sausage in South Somogy, which was wiped from the map. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-11-15-232	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, may come to you with a title on the problems of the Danube-Pilis-Gerecse region. Here you go.
u2021-11-15-233	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It's not the first time I've come to Parliament with the case of Route 10, it's not the first time I've spoken on this matter, and I have such unfortunate suspicions that it's not the last time. I have talked about it many times, I have talked about it several of my opposition fellow Members, and, by the way, the pro-government representatives are fully aware of the situation on this road and the situation of the people living along the road, the situation of those settlements. The unfinishedness of the M0 and the increase in mobility in recent years have led traffic to road 10 and main roads 102, which is now, I can really say, completely unbearable for the people who live there. Finishing the M0 ring as planned, you say you can't. I can accept that statement. Indeed, the north-west and north-west agglomerations have outgrown themselves at such a level that they have become so densely populated that they can drive a highway or maybe a highway, well, I really say that it is almost impossible, but at least it is very, very expensive. That's why there was hope in all of us this year, when, in government communication, there was a statement that M0 would be finished in a bag. What does this bag mean, doesn't it? With the existing ring, you would join an M0 north section, an M10 highway or expressway, or the M100 highway, which would eventually, of course, connect to the M1 motorway, and so, so to speak, complete the ring in the form of a bag. Then came the reality, a public interest data request, which György Buzinkay submitted to the authorities and received, because it says that, well, we should wait at least another thirty years before the M10 road is even completed, and in recent days, last week the northern section of the M0 failed, so we have to start the procedures again. So this thing doesn't look good, the way it faced us with reality. The M100, on the other hand, is still on the line, and the government, the government, they say they're going to start it anyway. Make no mistake, I support the construction of the M100 myself, and my constituency will also be affected by this journey, hopefully positively. In addition to the very, very important fact, however, we must not go and my fellow members of the Government know this, because I have also met two of my fellow members in the past six months, we have had a meeting, we have had a very positive voice, and it has been both discussions in substance; I am sorry that they have not dared to take these discussions publicly, and it would have been nice to set an example for people. But turning back to the fact that the M100 road alone is not a good or a good solution, it is not a good solution for our region because what will happen? If the M100 road is built, the eastern transit traffic from M3, which is otherwise heading for Western Europe, will not make a detour to the south, a huge detour, and will go on M0. [[16.30]] No, they're gonna go to the Budakalas node, they're gonna go down Szentendre road, out on the Vienna road, and they're gonna go all the way to Piliscsaba or Leányvár, and they're gonna hit the new M100. This means, by the way, that traffic may increase by up to one and a half times on Route 10, on Route 10 where traffic is unbearable at present. There is only one solution, and with my opposition colleague Bernadett Szél, we will also propose that the M100 or M10 or at least a 10-pass road be built together with the northern sector of M0. These three sections of the road, the route, are of equal priority, must be understood by the pro-government representatives, because if this is not the case, then settlements along Route 10 will fall even more. Thank you.
u2021-11-15-234	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Dear Parliament, Dear Enquiries, Our work today is done. Have a good day, everyone, and then good evening. Goodbye.
