u2021-06-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 30th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that Miklós Horváth died in the 81st year of his life. Miklós Horváth obtained his mandate as candidate for the MDF in the first free parliamentary elections after the regime change, in the 2nd constituency of Fejér county, and he was the party's parliamentary representative for a term. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Environment Committee. After his period in the Parliament, he participated in the local public life in Székesfehérvár as the city president and municipal representative of the MDF. In addition to his political and public activities, he worked as a veterinarian. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, the leader of the Dialogue Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2021-06-14-1	Last week, Budapesters voted that they wanted the Chinese Communist Party to build an elite university in our capital city for HUF 540 billion. More than 30,000 people took part in this vote and agreed that the Hungarian state would take credit for the construction of the headquarters of the University of Fudan in Budapest, China, 30,000 people voted against and 248 voted in favour. The result is therefore clear, the Orbán one percent is against the will of 99 percent of the Hungarians. People don't want a Chinese university built with 540 billion forints of Chinese credit, Chinese workers, Chinese raw materials, which, moreover, will be the Chinese Communist Party's secret agent dump. Instead, Hungarian people want housing in Budapest for young Hungarians in rural areas, because this problem, my fellow Members, is not only in Budapest but also in Hungary, and it will affect all Hungarian people. The HUF 540 billion Chinese loan means that each Hungarian person will have to repay HUF 110,000 to the Chinese Communist Party. Each Hungarian family with two children will be in debt to the Chinese state with HUF 440,000 for a Chinese university where Hungarian students would otherwise have to pay a tuition fee of HUF 2.5 million per year. Well, does the Hungarian people need this, my honourable members of the government? ! The results of the vote initiated by Gergely Christmas and Krisztina Baranyi clearly show that they do not have to. Earlier, Viktor Orbán promised that what the people of Budapest did not want would not be. Now, you would expect Viktor Orbán to keep his promise. But Viktor Orbán once again, surprisingly, lied to the Hungarian people. You lied to me when you answered my immediate question that the whole thing was a smokescreen, nothing was decided. He lied when he and Gergely Gulyás said that Fudan was in no condition to be fit for public debate. They lied because Viktor Orbán and Fidesz are not fit for this public debate tomorrow. He wants to hold a parliamentary vote on the law, which is what he wants to force on the Members of Parliament. However, on Thursday at the committee meeting, the Group of Dialogue initiated the removal of the University of Fudan from the vote, and Fidesz rejected it; we did so precisely on the basis of the words of Orbán and Gulyás. But as it turns out, Viktor Orbán lied again. But Viktor Orbán did not simply lie about this whole matter when he said that nothing was decided. The Prime Minister lied so that he knew that tomorrow's vote would not be a simple vote, it would be a vote where you, Fidesz-KDNP representatives, would already hand over four properties to the Chinese Communist Party, and after knowing that the whole thing would be outsourced to a private foundation, it would immediately hit the Fudan University for 600 million forints. So once again, according to Viktor Orbán, there is nothing so determined that tomorrow you will hand over four sites in Budapest and 600 million forints to the University of China. I'm asking you, who do you think you're stupid about this whole thing? ! Those who vote for this law tomorrow, my fellow Members from Fideszes and KDNP, will sell Hungary to China. Whoever votes against this law tomorrow will vote against the will of the Hungarian people. [[13.10]] Whoever votes for this law tomorrow will give up Hungary's independence and enslave our country to the Chinese Communist Party. According to Gulyás and Orbán, they will decide tomorrow on the question of Chinese Communist University [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How modest you are today, it doesn't exaggerate!]] But we, people, will only be able to vote on this in 2023. On the other hand, I will say a better one: you think we will vote on this in 2023, but we will hold a national referendum on this in April 2022. If Viktor Orbán and Fidesz refuse to withdraw the law on the University of Fudan now, then next year's parliamentary election will be exactly what we want to do with 540 billion forints of credit on our necks, or rather we will provide housing for young people in rural areas. In April 2022, who votes for Fidesz and Viktor Orbán, he votes that every Hungarian family should pay the Chinese Communist Party nearly half a million forints. In 2022, however, those voting against the opposition will vote against Hungary's independence, the housing of Hungarian students and Chinese credit. [[Németh Szilárd István: To eternal life!]] Take your pick next year. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-2	In response, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, shall have the floor.
u2021-06-14-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me, in advance, to note that what you have said proves that you consider it a good tool, a good opportunity to consult. The only reason I'm considering this is because any time the government initiated this, you tried to deny even his existence. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] I do not want to agree to how many people have participated in this consultation; we can see that it is a fraction of what they do in a government consultation. But that doesn't mean that no matter how many people are involved, we wouldn't be interested in the opinion of the opinioners. What I regret is that they want to make a political campaign issue out of a university, and I am deeply sorry for that; yet the existence of a new university expands knowledge, the knowledge available and can have positive economic consequences. What you're doing right now is political hystericalism, because there are no plans for the university yet, just as no decision on borrowing has been made, so the calculations you've shared do not stand the test of reality. If we have the developed plans, then the government supports that there should be a referendum on this issue, and we support that the people from Budapest or even those outside Budapest will give their views on this. You are making a false statement about this, but I would also like to emphasise here that the investment of Student City and the new university can be achieved together. You can safely add that there is currently a ruiny set of buildings in this area, that area needs to be developed, so we are now debating which of the various developments can happen at the same time. This university, by the way, is 31 in the world ranking, and I would also like to add that the Gyurcsány government has also set this type of cooperation as a goal, and then somehow it has not mentioned that it has this kind of political overtones. Let me add one more thing. If you want to support young people or Hungarian families in the matter of housing, you should not constantly attack the home creation program, just as your mayor and other left-wing allies are constantly doing, as they do with the system of family tax incentives. If you have already brought up life in Budapest and allow me, your speech will confirm me in the same way, I see that you want to maintain the post-epidemic attack policy in the coming months. They fight with the government where they shouldn't, and they don't act where they should. This traffic situation in Budapest is stronger than anything else. I bring this up because it affects a lot of people because you promised a green city, but the reality is that there have never been such big traffic jams in Budapest. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And what do you say to those of you who spend several hours in the car? I want you to walk; I want you to walk. That's the most cynical sentence of all years. And it's not just a stray sentence, because when you look at statements from city hall leaders, there's an anti-car policy, it's actually a car chase, which is why they're raising parking charges. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] That's why they're making traffic regulations impossible in certain districts, so they're thinking about recovery fees or carbon tax. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) This is aggravated by the way developments are scheduled. You don't have to be a transport engineer, honourable Member, to see if the capital is closed at the same time. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] his arteries, it's gonna turn into a huge mess and a huge traffic jam. [[Tordai Bence: Because of the Fudan construction?]] Those trying to work, children in school, spend hours in traffic, not in good spirits, and tell them to walk. Budapest will be a better city not by trying to coordinate pedestrians, cyclists and motorists against each other at a class-fighter pace, but by expanding opportunities for everyone. One of the mayor's chiefs recently talked about how he used to play a lot of video games called SimCity, it's a city-building simulation. It would be good, honourable Member, if you could see that this is not a video game where you can try everything, but the lives of millions of Hungarians. Do for them, hear their voices. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 'Cause they said it wasn't like that! [[László Varju: It's over!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Szabó Timea: Mr President, I did not yell. Do I get flowers?]]
u2021-06-14-4	Yeah. [[Defiance and applause from the opposition ranks.]] Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, on behalf of the LMP, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go. [[13.20]]
u2021-06-14-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Quickly referring back to the response of Secretary of State Dömötör, who referred to video games, we can assume that the Prime Minister has played relatively a lot with small trains in his childhood, according to the decisions made over the past period. The Honourable Secretary of State has given a very cynical answer to the Member's question. You said that the Fudan case, the Fudan project, is not yet suitable for public debate, so it turned out to be suitable. On the one hand, you brought the bill to Parliament and on the other hand 30,000 people expressed their views. Mr Secretary of State, do you withdraw this bill or do you wish to vote on it tomorrow? If this bill is not withdrawn, it is clear that the interests of the Hungarian people and the views of the people of Budapest are being ignored. But let's talk about a few more issues that have been in the last few months before the Parliament, which you have also not consulted on. We are well aware of your policy, what you have done, how many decisions you have made in eleven years that are contrary to the interests of the Hungarian people, but even compared to that, I can say that what has happened in the spring session in the last four months has been quite shocking. In a short period of time, in a few months, I would add, during a crisis, in an epidemiological situation, you have made an amazing amount of proposals that have been specifically opposed to the Hungarian national interests and served foreign interests. It was one of your most deplorable decisions to say that one of the worst decisions of the period after the change of regime was to organize a thousand billion public assets into fidesz private foundations. Mr Secretary of State, why didn't you consult on these decisions, why didn't you ask the Hungarian people? And it is clear that the entire Hungarian higher education has come to the same fate, the Hungarian universities have been outsourced. You lied, deceived Hungarian universities, Hungarian university leaders, and led almost all Hungarian higher education under Fidesz control. This was done to such an extent that there was no state-owned higher education institution left in the countryside. At the same time, this shameful project was launched, that they wanted to build for the elite university of the Chinese Communist Party, a campus with more money than they spent a whole year to maintain Hungarian higher education, despite the Hungarian people's intentions and will. But it has also been shocking in recent months that we have seen that they are able to enforce political calculations and political interests on issues such as the use of nuclear power, such as the expansion of Paks. Well, why didn't you ask the Hungarian people about the Paks expansion issue? And one of your last decisions in this session, which will be the final vote tomorrow, is also shocking, this particular budget proposal, which we can say is not intended to restart, but to revive the future. And it also says a lot about you that the opposition representatives have tabled 1,150 well-intentioned, better-meaning amendments, which you have made with the cynical justification that you do not agree with them, have been swept off. Each one of them swept down 1150 proposals for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. What happens in higher education, we can say that it fully symbolizes your pseudo-national policy. As I mentioned earlier, almost all Hungarian higher education has been outsourced, including the major universities in rural areas. You know perfectly well that universities such as the University of Pécs, the University of Szeged or the University of Debrecen each have tens of thousands of students and are the livelihood of thousands of families. Why has it not been consulted that people, the cities concerned, the counties concerned, the citizens of the regions concerned, want these extremely important higher education institutions outsourced? You promised a development resource of 1,500 billion, the Prime Minister himself made this promise, compared to which only 119 billion EU development funds are provided to higher education institutions. Last week we saw another ignominious government measure that will take another 155 billion away from Hungarian universities. And compared to this, you want to build a campus for the interests of the people, against the opinion of the people, of a Chinese elite university with Hungarian taxpayers' money, about HUF 550 billion in such a way that they did not pay the wages of teachers working at Hungarian universities, but they want to pay ten times those items in the Chinese elite university. We also know that there will be a million-dollar tuition fees, or would be, according to your intentions, at this university. Madam President, you have already mentioned that there has been a certain consultation where, in a very short period of time, 30,000 people have made it very clear that they do not want this to happen, they do not want the Hungarian people to be indebted to China again to create such an elite university. We also agree perfectly, Mr Secretary of State, that what you have done in Hungarian higher education, and what you are about to do now in connection with the University of Fudan, is a far-reaching national public affair. So we really need to do everything we can to ensure that, as soon as possible, not only the people of Budapest, but all Hungarians can express their views on the reproach and betrayal of national interests that you have done in this case. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-6	Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has the floor.
u2021-06-14-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, There used to be a couple who lived through a lot of hardships. Their goal was to change politics, and they carried this intention in their name, but after many feuds, after internal conflicts that were difficult to understand from the outside, the party crumbled and gave up its former principles. Gergely Christmas, who practically destroyed your party, destroyed, betrayed and sold it to Ferenc Gyurcsány. Dear Chief of Staff, By now, you have given up everything that was sacred to you before, you have given up the protection of sovereignty, you have given up loyalty to the nation, attention to Hungarians across the border, green affairs, opposition to communists, and you could still be classified for a long time. Honourable Member, they are now at the point of being fully integrated in the Gyurcsány choir. And your speech and political hystericalism with false rumors will fit in here. They sold themselves, Mr. Group Leader, to Ferenc Gyurcsány just to get into the Parliament with some listings. You are the Jobbik, the Communists' successor party, the MSZP, and who knows who else is behind just to get into Parliament. You seem to be able to function no different, politics cannot be different, as you testify here at the National Assembly every day. You have criticised a number of developments, a number of cases in your speech that we have already had long debates about here in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, Let's put these over and over again. The fact is that the congressman involved in Fudan's case is involved in the air guitar that his fellow Members and the entire left have done in recent months; while we have made it clear that there is no borrowing, no decision on any kind of execution, the planning is taking place and the legislation required to do so is what lies before the Honourable Parliament. When these plans, the cost estimates, can be discussed in substance, and then it is really worth asking the opinion of the people of Budapest. But allow me, Mr honourable Member, Mr Group leader, to note quietly that the most recent international ranking has just come out, and the 31st best university in the world is the Fudan, moving forward three more places. The improvement in the educational and research performance of the institution is even more spectacular if we look at the fact that in 2012 it was only the 90th. Otherwise, there would be a lesson to be learned from them by Hungarian and other European higher education institutions. Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, We have also argued many times about the change of model, since you are constantly and consistently attacking the transformation that will contribute to the success of Hungarian young people. It will contribute to the success of young Hungarians, whether in the labour market or in other areas of their lives. And he does so by constantly spreading false news. I mean, you know that, and we've already made it very clear that the development issues that universities are initiating are being supported by the government. The development resources promised to Hungarian higher education will be guaranteed, regardless of whether you continue to pursue an anti-university and anti-development policy here in the Parliament. And he's also involved in spreading that fake news, Congressman, that we would have taken anything, even one forint from higher education. It's not that. Universities have taken part in the defense against you, and we have regrouped unused funds. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2021-06-14-8	Now it's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn. I give you the floor.
u2021-06-14-9	We hope that we are at the end of the last spring session in which you give the majority of Parliament. And that's not just what we're hoping for, but that's why we're doing it, and for example, we're trying to look a little further away at everything you've done and do to our country. If we are to draw a balance, then perhaps it is worth choosing a standard that may be equally acceptable to a moderate right and moderate left; such may be the judgment of Marai, which work and person, I think we both appreciate. Perhaps in his most esteemed book of Marai, the One Citizen's confessions, he says that there was an age and there were some generations that proclaimed the triumph of reason over instincts and believed in the resistance of the spirit. If we understand this sentence correctly, then one of the things we need to measure your governance is that it was actually an instinct policy, and they were trying to get the country to do so, or they thought and represented that there was a place for intelligent words, reasoning, and dialogue. I see you've decided on this dilemma for quite some time. You represent an instinct policy. You are the voters, the members of the Hungarian nation, sometimes at the lowest and sometimes at the most uplifting instincts, using these instincts to deny the nation the opportunity to decide on its future in a smart, intelligent, rational debate. There is a history of this thinking in the course of the 20th century. Inhumane systems in the century, not one or two acted in the same way. We will not be your best opponents in the historical sense, only in a political sense, but the people who, after a while, realize that they are victims of historical fraud, and these people will actually historically overthrow you. They claim to be Christians, obviously familiar with the teachings of the seven principal sins, the seventh of which contains laziness for good. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you share the seventh of the seven sins, because you do suffer the sin of good-for-goodness; you refer to the nation's benefit, but I must say to you that every inhumane system in front of you has done this, and every inhumane system has thought that in a closed world, along a closed ideology, he will change his country, and with various isms you are now trying to lock your country in a stocks with illiberism. You're gonna lose, and so are your ancestors. Your patterns, Russia and Turkey, are not a pattern to the world today, but a deterrent example. What you are doing is the most basic human and I think you are facing constitutional needs, such as the freedom of love and love that you are doing. You can preach about a pulpit, you can tell how bad we've been in the past I don't know how many years, but at the end of the day people will come and say that we don't want people who want to talk about how to love, how to hug, how to find our personal and individual welfare. There will be people coming to get you out of your personal life first and then out of public life. But it's okay. What on earth can you promise the nation? Then one or two more unbelievable, unreasonable, depraved tax cuts? That may be, but there will be no future. [[Interjection and clarity from the ranks of the governing parties: Distraught!]] What dreams? What kind of stories? What kind of joint success? Your dreams are the success of war, the success of conflicts. It will be the opposition that will give peace and rise to the nation, and you will fail. [[Dr. Pál Völner: If there are any opposition! Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-06-14-10	Csaba Dömötör should be honoured again. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, If you feel it is your job to quote the greats of Hungarian literature, I would highly recommend that you bring your views on Communism to the House, such as Marai, that it will be difficult to get rid of the communist, because no one is as dangerous as a representative of a dangerous idea, who no longer defends the idea, but the prey. It's... [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: That's what the right said! That's what the right said!]] It's... [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: We read Marai in original!]]
u2021-06-14-12	I didn't speak to Mr Gyurcsány again, so don't yell at the House, please. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Only for you...]] Would you mind holding back, please? [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Don't fight with me!]] Do me a favor. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: Fight at home!]] And don't argue with me in particular, because I'm in charge of the meeting, and it's in the house rules... [[Ferenc Gyurcsány: This is a shame for the Parliament!]] Thank you very much, there will be consequences.
u2021-06-14-13	We recognize your politics. [[Zoltán Varga:]] And let us say that if we have listened to you with respect after all these years, you will give the respect to those who supported the governing parties in the last election. If you're talking about instinct politics, it's just about instinctual violence, and you're just as violent as you were at the time of the police force, and at the time of the rubber bullets, I'm not going into those examples right now, because practically everyone knows that DK's logo could be a rubber bullet. The problem is [[Gergely Harvestó: Of course!]] When it comes to instinct policy, you don't have anything. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Nothing has changed, but nothing has changed, for example, because journalists are threatened at the TV station, sometimes broken into an editorial office, sometimes wondering how to ban journalists who think differently, where civil servants are threatened that if they come, they will lose their jobs. You are threatening artists by making them runaway by your use of the word, threatening constitutional judges, your wife, she did this, and you are threatening with your hands to jail other people from the house of the Communist leader who has actually carried out such threats. It's not your past, Mr. Head of the Group, but it's democracy now, and as a consequence, this violent policy [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He is now in opposition, and it is in the country's best interest to keep it that way, despite all their aggressive attempts and threats. Now, if I quote your point correctly about the policy of unreasonable tax reductions, well, I also think it is worth examining that if the left were to be given an opportunity, then what would that be; and the fact is that the Hungarians here have a lot of experience and not of the better kind. So let's talk a little bit about what you want to do for a living, because in the last few days, a program for nothing has been made public, but we know very well from the resolutions and statements of the last few years. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] what policy they want, such as a drastic tax increase, higher income tax. [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The policy they want, such as drastic tax increases, higher income tax. (Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties. ) One of your candidates, Gergely Christmas, told us earlier how much this would mean: 25-30 percent tax rate (Gergely Arató intervenes). Your youth organization, Momentum, would like a 25% tax rate on the average wage in Budapest, and they would already pay 25 percent. I would also like to raise the corporate tax very hard, and your candidate, Gergely Christmas, would raise this to 19 percent, so that now it is 9 percent, so it proposes an increase of 10 percentage points, which, if we look at your budget amendments, would mean hundreds of billions of dollars withdrawal for Hungarian businesses. It will not be a higher wage, I will also say this to the leader of the James faction, but a much lower wage. Then they'd tear the family support system apart by not linking you to work. They also bring up the issue of pensions. I'd be more careful here, if I were you, after your negative list of honors doesn't have a higher pension, it's a retired pension. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] This government gave it back and returned the 13th month pension you took. As for young generations, you raised this question last week, which is the government that grants tax exemptions to people under the age of 25, and you didn't even think about it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The threat, they still remembered, you personally said that it was possible to leave here. That's all he could tell them. How bad is it? So, so much for their most important intentions, and this is accompanied by the fact that the united European states would give Brussels powers as part of the concept. Now we see that they're trying differently, they're putting other players in front of you, even the leader of the Jobbik faction, but that's not why we closed the pre-2010 period. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I thought we'd try it again. This country will not once again be the area of rubber bullets and the place of economic stagnation, you can be sure of that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2021-06-14-14	I now give the floor to Mr. Bertalan Tóth, leader of the group, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2021-06-14-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After eleven years of fidesz misfortune, Viktor Orbán suddenly realized that the majority of Hungarian families and pensioners are living badly, and he remembered that the elections were coming, so he should do it, but at least promise something. The truth is that Viktor Orbán feels his loss, and therefore, in addition to the looting mode, he also turns on the distribution mode a little bit. But you don't just give me the money, no. You're opening a consultation before asking people how they need more money. Do you think everyone's stupid? Of course, we know that fidesz consultation is equal to fidesz theft, you can give your friends hundreds of millions of dollars to spend on self-polising ads, posters, to enrich the fidesz oligarchs. But you can't hide the truth because everyone knows that the Fidesz was a lousy defense against the plague, 30,000 deaths can't be denied. Everyone knows that the money for crisis management has been wasted by Fidesz in supporting Lőrinc Mészáros, hunting exhibitions, stadiums, space exploration, renovation of the Buda Castle, while beating Hungary into Russian and Chinese debt. This is what Viktor Orbán wants to divert attention from very quickly, which is why he promises a minimum wage of 200,000 and a tax refund without any specifics, but as if he had already given it to me. Ladies and gentlemen, Interestingly, Viktor Orbán was not so concerned at the time when Fidesz increased the minimum wage tax and reduced the taxes of well-earned earners, and the Fidesz was so careful about raising the minimum wage that we were almost the lowest in Europe. This is why the MSZP demands that the minimum wage be tax-free and that the tax on low salaries be reduced. The state should give up the minimum wage tax, and with this the lowest wage earners would receive more than 300,000 HUF a year, and this would not be the case, but immediately, skilled workers, teachers, social workers and skilled workers would receive much more salaries from next month. You had our proposal before you, but you voted against the people. You support Lőrinc Mészáros rather than 2.3 million Hungarian workers. You don't want to give, you want to pretend to give. Shame on you! Or let's talk about a tax refund promised to children. Let us be clear: it is the right thing to do to help families with children in the present difficult situation when people's kitchens are opened in rural areas. But let us not forget that this bad situation was caused by Fidesz, because during the epidemic, Fidesz rejected any proposals that would have helped people to make a sure living. From an increase in family allowances, a 9-month unemployment allowance and an 80-percent wage allowance to a low-income pension, you said no to anything. And now you're trying to turn back your sja into a campaign stunt. But a one-time campaign isn't going to solve the financial problems of the lowest earning families in the long run. Foods are brutally expensive because Fidesz deliberately weakens forints. The MSZP proposes that the VAT on food should be 18%, reduced, and the VAT on basic foods should be only 5%. If we reduce VAT, the price of food will also decrease, and this is only a matter of decision, which could be taken from next month. Or here's to catching up on pensions. We say that when calculating pensions, we need Swiss indexation, and we want all pensioners to have at least the minimum amount of pension and benefits. That would be fair. Let's keep pensions closed because old people deserve respect and a safe living. People need to make amends after Fidesz's free robbery, not now, but now, not now, and should not be consulted, it is even clearer than the day, but given because it is in the interests of the people. It is time to put an end to the anti-human government of Fidesz as soon as possible and to achieve a real era change, no later than next spring, for our common future, for Hungary.
u2021-06-14-16	Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár will take the floor, please.
u2021-06-14-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You would change the era, indeed, to bring back the pre-2010 era, because with the same people standing up behind Ferenc Gyurcsány, they are trying to get back into power, at any cost, even with threats and promises, which you have just said, whose credibility is, of course, zero, because they did exactly the opposite when they were on the government. But they are not afraid of the threat, and they are not only doing it here in Parliament, but also outside the walls of Parliament, everyone who has been successful and supported as an entrepreneur in the last ten years, everyone who, as an artist, does not claim to be your Balliberian idealist, but who may be taking a different position than you have said, also wants to make them land-runner. They're threatening everyone they can. But don't worry, Congressman, if you're going to sit on the DK faction in the next election, and if you follow the predecessor of the party president, you may have a list of seats on the list somewhere on Ferenc Gyurcsány's list. It is unacceptable and outrageous that you, ladies and gentlemen of the left, after Ferenc Gyurcsány, say that it is unreasonable and vicious that, if the growth of the economy is above 5.5 percent, Hungarian families, the average income, will receive their personal income tax back. It is outrageous that when people, families who are working, are earning money and raising children, and have made a lot of sacrifices in the last year and a half, they would receive the personal income tax they have paid back when the economy is growing high, you call it literally unreasonable and vicious, honourable Member. Where do you think the life of a Hungarian family has been for the past year and a half? Where do you think those amounts come in handy for a family with children, whether they're small, kindergarten, school or going to college? ! For the Hungarian families, such a refunded tax amount does come in handy in all circumstances. And you want to put politics at the expense of all Hungarian families, because they say that if all Hungarian families receive support for raising the child, this is an unreasonable and vicious decision, honourable Member. This is the reason why you say such things, that the Hungarian Socialist Party has reached the parliamentary threshold. As regards wages and the minimum wage, honourable Member, you say that you would be radical minimum wage raisers, who raised the minimum wage raised by Fidesz to HUF 50,000 in 2002 to HUF 73 500 in two cycles; from 50,000 to HUF 73 500! Where was the momentum, honourable Member, when you could decide on the minimum wage? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] We have now raised this HUF 73 500 to HUF 167 400, and the minimum wage of HUF 89 500 is HUF 219 thousand, honourable Member. When they were on the steering wheel, why did they pull the handbrake? We know why they pulled him in: because the multi-company companies came to you and said they needed cheap Hungarian wages, so you artificially kept the minimum wage low and didn't raise it. Only Fidesz-KDNP had the courage to stand up to international multi-companies and to say that the interests of Hungarians are more important than the profits of foreign companies, and not to be a luxury professional for any foreign company because the wages of Hungarian people are much, much lower, but to start raising people's wages. This is how the net income became HUF 268 thousand instead of HUF 132 thousand, Mr. Head of the Group. If it were up to you, you, who always say that you want to enforce the interests of small-money people, working people, as a left-wing party, never did that. Well, your prime ministers are billionaires, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai, Péter Medgyessy. Last time there was any knowledge of it in Gyula Horn [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Viktor Orbán!]] I wouldn't cry back at his time, but I wouldn't cry back at his time to see what kind of situation people who actually live day by day might have. But did you confiscate me from Little Fork to talk about any little people? ! Are they oligarching? ! Are those who are members of a third-generation oligarch family of oligarchs who say that Hungary should be freed from the oligarchs, who have known nothing for generations, have lived in nothing but before the change of regime or after the change of regime, as in families of oligarchs who have always been above the law? [[13.50]] Obviously, before the 1990s, he bought me free of charge from private companies, free loans from public banks, and after that he received high-value advisory contracts from Brussels, and then they went out to MEPs. And do you oligarch, Your Honour? ! And the play they're performing on the left-wing pre-election is already pricking a lot of left-wing politicians, as Ákos Hadházy said, because of the series of backwards, the pre-election is starting to take on the same theatrical character. And what do you do? They're withdrawing your support because you've said a critical word to you, who are supposed to be proclaiming it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I don't know how they can handle criticism. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, You're completely discredited. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-18	Peter James, the leader of the Jobbik faction, is now taking the floor.
u2021-06-14-19	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! Last week, the Fidesz Group leader announced that pro-government representatives would not come into the Chamber if I spoke, citing that they were sick of me. Let's be clear, though, okay, fellow Members: this is a job. It's a job where you're sitting for a million bucks, or you're hanging out for a million bucks. Allow me to ask the representatives and members of the government present: do you think that an average Hungarian worker could afford the luxury of leaving his work, referring to the fact that he does not like his colleague? [[You mean Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] Could a worker do that? You can't do that, can you? Well, then don't let the Fidesz congressmen do it either. In your million-dollar salary, it doesn't say that I should be loved, but it does mean that they have a dog duty to listen to me even if I don't like what I'm saying. So stick to this or find another job. Believe me, I get criticism from voters, too. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: We know!]] I just had someone who came up to me and said, "You're good, Peter, you're good, but you could be a little tougher. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] And someone else said, "Speak nicely, 'cause these guys are gonna turn off your mic, they're gonna take the word away from you. I also respect this opinion, while I say that we can never, ever play by the rules of a regime, because if we do that, we will accept the system itself, and I do not want to accept the Orbán system, but I want to defeat it; and we will defeat it, whatever it takes. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] There are people in this House who have been Members of Parliament for thirty years, who are still in government; they have accepted the rules of the regime, they have become part of it: stealing, cheating, lying. They're not fighting for the nation, they're fighting for themselves, they want to survive. I don't want to become such a man: compromise, servitude [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Pál Völner: Gyurcsány!]] a power freak, a thief. I haven't been a congressman for 30 years, I've been here for three years, but that's enough time. [[Intruder from the benches of the ruling parties.]] To learn: when faced with liars, truth is your only weapon. There is only one standard for me, and it is not László Kövér and the house rules, but it is my sense of justice, which is the sense of justice of many decent Hungarian people in this country, so I do insist that I say it, that I can say what my constituents say to each other in the shop, in the market, at the bus station, and say that it is enough! Enough of you humiliating, using, embarrassing Hungarians! Enough of you treating this country like it's your own property! I've had enough of you guys doing nothing but stealing and hating instead of steering! Well, we got to the point where the Pope is embarrassed to meet you, the great Christian Democrats. Well, isn't there something you'd like to think about, that you might have screwed something up between two hates and two clowns? Are you offended by the truth? Of course it's a violation. But the solution is not to silence me, but to stop lying. Are you offended by me calling you criminals? Of course it offends me, but the solution is not to turn off my microphone, but to stop stealing. Are you disturbed by the word "dishy"? It's obviously bothering you, more than the criminal you can say for free, you'll have to pay $10 million for the boy. But the solution is not to punish me for millions, but to finish rags in a country where there are more than two million people living under the minimum living; where the worker has a luxury holiday; where the pensioner can't afford parizer, and you brag about the fact that you're on a luxurious yacht [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] With a $160 million watch on their hands. I believe you're annoyed by my style, obviously the honest word is unusual, but understand, you're in the wrong way if you think you can silence me with punishment. Shall I tell you what you can do to keep me quiet? Eyes lit up, I can see with fair governance. We should serve the people, not rule them. We should give it to the people, not take it away from him. He should be raised, not crippled. Give the Hungarians prosperity instead of poverty, and I swear I'll keep my mouth shut! But as long as you suffer low wages, high prices, 27 percent of Europe's record VAT, immense corruption, we will not back down. They can wash, clowns, stink jerks, if they want, let Christian love flow, as we are accustomed to, but we do not back down. You can turn off my microphone, you can punish me as much as you want, you can take my house if you want, but I won't give you my country, I won't give you my country. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You already sold that to Gyurcsány...]] Whatever they do, however they reproach you, however they attack you, however they hate you, I will remain who I am: a simple country child who will never, ever be broken by the lords of the Buda Castle. [[Pointing to the pro-government benches:]] ♪ I've never seen a baby ♪ ♪ I've [[Pointing to the presidential stage:]] Or mustaches. So help me God. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Long live!]]
u2021-06-14-20	Before I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán, I would like to say to Mr Group leader that I am trying to be fair to you in the spirit of the last meeting, and even lenient, in confidence, Member, that you will have a chance to rest in the summer and welcome back a group leader in a much better mental state. [[Claps from the benches of the Jobbik from the benches of the governing parties.]] Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. [[James Peter: God forgives...]]
u2021-06-14-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, I listened to your speech: out of five minutes, about four and a half minutes were all about you: me, me, me... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I thought of a joke. In the ticket office of a theatre, a man asks: "I'm sorry, tell me how you have the first row ticket for tonight's performance. Yes, sir, there's more. Yeah, well, I don't want it, 'cause it's gotta be some horrible performance. [[Peter James: If I'm talking about Orbán, the problem is... make up your mind.]] So we who are here in Parliament with the Hungarian voters, we listen week after week... [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] clapping, theatre performance [[He's pointing towards the benches of Jobbik.]] There is your audience, so we, who listen to your theater speeches week after week, understand the context of this joke. [[Peter James and György Szilágyi intervene.]] The problem is that this production that you're doing here every week is wrong, because there's one thing that's missing in politics that unfortunately can't be saved, and that's the one thing that's credibility. [[James Peter intervenes. Moore from Jobbik's benches.]] 'Cause you're talking about fighting the powerful while you're working with the biggest post-communist oligarch in the country. [[Intercoms and noise from the benches of Jobbik, including Dr. Brenner Koloman: Orbán and I did not join forces!]] So whoever managed to buy your party. You sold your party before 2018, and you sold your party after 2018, and you sold it to the biggest post-communist oligarch. [[Peter James: Surely you would have been accounted for! Right?]] You speak of morale while betraying your own and taking sides with those against whom your party has been formed. [[James Peter intervenes.]] And if you'll allow me, from February 2020, let me quote you, that's what you're saying:. At the opposition bakery, one of the confectioners, Ferenc Gyurcsány, told me to have a big conflict cake with DK's raisins. Raisins are one of the most divisive foods I can't stand. The solution is that Baker James is baking another cake that doesn't have raisins in it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's what you stopped from doing in the election...]] Dear Chief of Staff, This turned out to be the opposite: a raisin cake was born, and you were baked into that cake, that is the case, Mr. Group Leader. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] You listened to Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech, who came in and tried to take a stand as a statesman, and you wanted to prepare this man's political return. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] There is a man who sits here in Parliament and was a political leader before the regime change, a political leader also in dictatorship; you are now signed to that man, you are starting an alliance with that man, Ferenc Gyurcsány, that is the problem. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] The man who was taken from the Hungarian people lives in an apartment, do you understand? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman and Peter James are interrogating.]] So you are the ally of the man who took property from the Hungarian people and lives in that house. You have been in Hungary before, and you support the return of this policy. [[Peter James: Let's talk about it...]] You've been talking about responsibility for the past year and a half while you've done nothing to fight the corona virus, you've done nothing to help people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! He's been obstructed!]] They attacked the government wherever they could. [[James Peter intervenes.]] ; they didn't care about the facts; they didn't care about the needs of the Hungarian people. When it came to proclaiming an extraordinary legal order, they lied about coronation; when the vaccines and the vaccinations were to be supported, they were annoyed against the Eastern vaccines. This cost the lives of Hungarian people, Honourable Group Leader. When they had to open, they demanded closure, and when they should have closed, they demanded an opening. You are talking about justice, while nothing has been voted out of the measures that would have helped Hungarian people and businesses. [[Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: It's not a coincidence...]] If it were up to you, there wouldn't be a credit moratorium today, there wouldn't be a 13th month pension. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] There wouldn't be a system of family support. [[14.00]] Instead, they conspired with those who took money from the Hungarian people during the previous crisis in 2008-2009, did not raise the minimum wage, raised taxes, delivered it to foreign creditors, and their policies resulted in 12 percent unemployment. [[James Peter: I'm listening, say it!]] While you are constantly trying to speak in the interests of the workers here in Parliament [[Peter James: The problem is that you've been talking about Gyurcsány for four minutes!]] you support those under whom the Hungarian labour market has collapsed. You have a credibility problem, Your Honour. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's big enough! Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Eric Cartman is here! György Szilágyi: You just came in. What did you hear?]] The thing is, Mr. Group Leader, that you are Julius Caesar of our time; you are not the glorious general who sent reports to Rome, but one who sent reports to Rome. [[Peter James: The one you want to stab! It's like that, isn't it?]] Whoever came here saw me, and he won't be able to apologize. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-22	It is now up to KDNP's group leader, Mr István Simicskó. I give you the floor. [[Peter James: Gyurcsány second...]]
u2021-06-14-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, at the end of the spring session, to refer you back to some of the most important stations and important points, as, in addition to the fact that we have made some serious laws at this session, we have faced a global epidemic, and the pandemic was raging at the beginning of the spring session, and the number of diseases has set records everywhere. Compared to this, thanks to the good Lord and, of course, the public authorities, the government, the health care workers, the defense has been successful, and it will be successful in the future that many people's lives have been saved, and it is important, because people have clearly seen who feels the problem, who sees the problems, who can cure it, and who can put me out on the issue of protecting people. Ladies and gentlemen, It has become clear that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union It is indeed a century of challenges. I do not want to look back now for the last 20 to 21 years, but indeed, the increase in terrorist attacks, the migration crisis and a pandemic, which we are not, of course, at the end of, has made it clear to all of us that these challenges need to be tackled. It became clear at the end of the spring session who could, who could, who wanted to put me out for the protection of people. [[Gergely Harvesto: Well, not the government!]] It's clear that the government did everything they could, organized the defense well, acquired the necessary protective equipment and vaccines in time, as well as vaccines. So we did successfully and effectively defend ourselves against a global epidemic. Not to mention that there have been constant challenges and crises over the past ten or a few years. There was an inheritance that came from the fact that we inherited a financial and economic crisis that you, the left-wing government, mismanaged: debt to foreign exchange-credit families, austerity, burden on people, this left-wing crisis management, we already know that. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP administration saw and knew that people should be supported, that people should be helped in trouble; that is what it has done, and that it will continue to do in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Aristotle says that the size of the state is based on the health of citizens. Obviously, the operational tribe worked in this spirit, the Hungarian health care system worked in this spirit, so it is truly a huge thank you for the effort and sacrifice that Hungarian health workers, doctors and nurses have done, thanks to all the state bodies, the operational tribe, for organizing and effectively managing the country's protection activities, not to mention the soldiers who also helped a lot with the rennet buses and much more. Of course, the epidemic was also a watershed, because it was visible that the left could not be expected in the defense. It was also evident that not only could they not be expected, but they even hindered protection. Unfortunately, it is sad that they have started an anti-vaccination campaign and continue to do so to this day. At the same time, let me say that the budget has also been drawn up, with a general debate being held here in Parliament. We all know that it is very difficult to establish a good budget in a so-called normal year of peace, in a crisis, a pandemic, a pandemic. The Hungarian government has sought to establish and create a clear, clear budget for the relaunch of the Hungarian economy; this has happened, and it is very important for us Christian democrats that the directions, the choice of value, the choice of faith that is meant for us to strengthen support for families, have been placed on its flag. I trust that this budget will provide sufficient guarantees and security for the Hungarian families in the coming period. Of course, the economy also needs to be restarted, there are huge amounts of money for this: HUF 7300 billion, which allows the Hungarian economy to grow again and become one of Europe's leaders. Overall, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that crisis management is indeed a watershed. I think people clearly saw that left-wing crisis management consisted of austerity, increasing the burden on people, indebted families, so a weakened state [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] While the Fidesz-KDNP government is a believer of a strong state, it has managed all crises successfully and protected people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-24	Once again, Mr. Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda.
u2021-06-14-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, we have faced an unprecedented crisis and difficulty in recent decades, in the past, it can now be said that in a year and a half a virus has been devastating the world, endangering human lives, human health, jobs and the economy. We've had a lot of experience, good and bad. The importance of a stable economic background, sovereign national policy, people's cooperation and the patriot economy has been proven in such a serious situation. The crisis has found us in a good situation and in a good economic situation, because we have achieved significant results together in ten years, so we have started our defence on a stronger basis. Don't even think about it, we don't even dare think about what would have happened if Ferenc Gyurcsány had run the country during this time. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Dear Chief of Staff, But it also showed what the European Union is worth in a crisis situation, as Brussels acted like a lame duck: national responses could only produce real results everywhere, and Hungarian sovereign policy was therefore very important. Dear Chief of Staff, During the crisis, his nature came out of everyone, and he came out of the left. What the left did during the crisis was unprecedented throughout the world: they were disgustingly attacking health workers and professionals, they wanted to open up when they had to close, and they wanted to close when they had to open. Even in the most difficult times, Peter James spoke about opening in Parliament, and we remember this well. [[Peter James: Open your wallets! Give it up!]] They flooded the public with false news and made defense difficult. Here in Parliament is Lajos Korózs, the main fake news producer, who still insists on the chair of the Health Commission; this is something quite shocking and shameful. An anti-vaccination campaign against safe and effective vaccines has been conducted, and they have even gone so far as to ensure that the parliamentary decision to ban effective and functioning vaccines has still not been withdrawn, even though these vaccines have saved lives in Hungary. They used the National Assembly as a circus, instead of helping people, they played clowns according to the roles they played, and they continued the false announcement here in the National Assembly. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear Parliament, The third wave of the plague has been broken. Hungary is today a more secure and safer place than other European countries. [[14.10]] The economic reboot is also due to vaccination. Hungary could become the European country where we can return to our normal lives as soon as possible. Thanks to the vaccinations, we are one and a half months ahead of the opening process than all the other European countries. Dear Chief of Staff, After the epidemic, we want a safer and less fragile economy; we need an economy that is able to offer all citizens of Hungary a balanced, stable and safe opportunity not only in peacetime, but also in an epidemic and in the era of migration. To this end, we have already taken a number of measures, we have launched a number of programmes, but the following are also expected to be decisions that were not previously part of Hungarian economic policy. To do so, however, we think it is necessary to ask the opinion of the Hungarian people, their position, and that is why we will launch a national consultation on the relaunch of the economy. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-26	This time, Congresswoman Fidesz, Gabriella Selmeczi, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-27	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. The third wave of the coronal virus epidemic has been overcome, which can now be said, since the number of new diseases is falling faster and only 1.3 percent of the tests carried out are positive. Ladies and gentlemen, The third wave of the coronal virus epidemic was a strain on health workers that they had never encountered before. Thank them for their sacrifices, and without them, we could not have stopped the plague. In these difficult times, there was a need for national cooperation, which was not even a question for most citizens, but at the same time, as Mr Secretary of State said, the left was panicking to dissuade people and tried to turn society against the government by all means. For example, a distinction was made between vaccine and vaccine on a political basis. Let me mention it, too, because it was memorable to hear Lajos Korózs's Kamuvideo and his fake stats, or the shocking speech by the Parliament of nine of the ten patients sent home. Not only have we overcome the epidemic, but we also eliminate its economic effects. Thanks to the successful vaccination programme, Hungary has been able to reboot the fastest, and we are one and a half months ahead of other European countries in this work. The performance of the Hungarian economy may already exceed the level prior to the Crown Virus crisis in the summer months. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced last spring that the government will rebuild the 13th month pension in four instalments. As a result of the decision, in February 2021 pensioners and pension recipients already received the first part. Let us recall that the 13th month pension was cancelled by the left on account of the crisis. Experience is that left-wing governments are always lost and refer to a crisis, whereas the Orbán government has been trying to give since 2010 and even before that. For example, we give young people total tax exemptions. The aim is to enable 15-25-year-olds to create their own existence as soon as possible. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced in January this year that from 1 January next year, young people under the age of 25 will be exempt from the payment of personal income tax to the extent of average earnings. With the measure, a young person working 40 hours a week will receive a net salary of HUF 44 thousand per month and an annual salary of more than half a million forints. The fact that the Hungarian families were given special attention during the epidemic is no better justified by the fact that last spring, at the beginning of the emergency, the first measures were the introduction of the credit moratorium. This protected and protected the homes of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. In 2010, remember, the Hungarian people were at a low point in their desire to start a family and have children. The left has abolished the previous home creation system, and Hungarian families have been pushed into the currency trap and into foreign exchange lending. Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Socialists abolished the tax relief of families with one and two children in 2005, and radically reduced the number of children with three children. They also reduced the duration of the child, whose spokesperson was Klára Dobrev, and they reduced it from three to two years. The newest element of the re-launching of the economy can be the family tax refund. In view of the fact that families have been the most affected by the epidemic, it is therefore necessary to strengthen their financial situation, which could be the most effective by means of a tax refund. In our view, the person raising a child gets back the money he worked for and paid it as a tax to the average income. If we succeed in achieving 5,5 percent GDP growth in Hungary, parents raising children will receive back the personal income tax that they have paid into the budget this year from the beginning of next year. The measure concerns over one million families. Now, the left has already attacked the family tax refund, they doubt it, they oppose the national consultation. They're proposing new taxes, so let's not forget that. We would like to obtain the clear support of the Hungarian people on this issue as well, so we will consult the family tax refund, which we hope is a widely welcomed measure. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-28	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2021-06-14-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thanks to all defense workers, be they doctors, nurses, any other hospital, medical personnel. Thank you to all civil servants, paramedics, policemen, soldiers, social workers and anyone else involved in the defense. Without them, Hungary would not have been one of the first European countries to overcome the third wave of the epidemic. This is due to the fact that we were able to inoculate Hungarians faster than almost any European country. In fact, we were able to prevent even the United States of America from doing so, which we can say in very few cases. The left has been campaigning for death in Hungary ever since last April, and they didn't care how or how the defense progressed, they said the same thing. They could not be counted on once in Parliament, not only did they not vote for the individual measures, they did not even vote for the submitted proposals on the left, which would have authorised the government to do so, i.e. empowered it, because Fidesz-KDNP voted for this, which authorised the government to adopt rapid measures. If it had been up to them, the measures would have been taken in four to six weeks, not in a day or two. And unfortunately, human lives were likely to suffer. The left couldn't be expected. They often try to shift responsibility, but they are the ones who have also tabled a parliamentary resolution against vaccines here. If we look at the number of deaths, to which the congresswoman referred, the 11th was the lowest of this additional mortality in the previous year, if we look at the number of European countries. Even this year, from the data available so far, we can see that we are in the middle of the Central European countries, there are about five of them ahead of us, about five of them behind us. This is also due to the fact that the Hungarian doctors, the Hungarian nurses, stood the storm and the pressure. This is why it is particularly horrifying and particularly frightening to thank the left, especially through Imre DK László, the work of Hungarian doctors and Hungarian nurses in the fight against the epidemic, in order to say in a TV broadcast that 45 percent of hospitals would be closed according to the programme of the left. [[Gergely Harvesto: No, it's not true! You're lying! Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] Well, how could we defend ourselves against the epidemic if there were only half as many hospitals in Hungary? ! How can a responsible Hungarian person say that 45 percent of hospitals should be closed in Hungary? ! But what did he say a few years ago when Ferenc Gyurcsány introduced the visit fee? Imre László told me about the introduction of the visit fee: I expect arguments, loud patients for two months, and then they get used to paying. There was no compassion, just financial considerations, just profit. As Ferenc Gyurcsány said in his autumn speech, they will protest a little and then go home. Imre László said so, and then the patients make noise for a month or two, and then they get used to paying a visitation fee. In fact, he is a progressive left-wing thinker, so he gradually said that not only in cash, but also in mobile phones, you can pay the visit fee. [[14.20]] That was his innovation, but it also shows that people, patients, don't count for a second. What did Ferenc Gyurcsány say here in Parliament a few days ago? Literally, you had the power to do one thing: prevent a real, progressive strategic reform in opposition, and you prevented it. In 2021 Ferenc Gyurcsány said this about the introduction of the visit fee and the introduction of the hospital daily allowance, and that if Fidesz-KDNP did not object, not only would four hospitals have been closed down, but 45 percent of hospitals, as Imre László said recently. As it turned out, the real programme of the left was the re-introduction of the visit fee, which Ferenc Gyurcsány said here a few days ago, and the closure of 45 percent of hospitals, and Imre László said on TV. It is no wonder that their period was when the number of per capita health spendings decreased in Hungary alone from the OECD countries; it increased in all other OECD countries, i.e. in developed countries, only in Hungary, my honourable fellow Members. We know what you said here today that VAT will be reduced. They did that in 2006. A few months before the election, VAT was reduced by 5 percent, the election was won, and then VAT was raised by 5 percent. We have also seen that you always promise a pension increase, but you are the only people who have reduced pensions in Hungary since the change of regime. We also see that you in Brussels have voted in favour of all the pro-immigration proposals, none of which you have faced. This means that you call the tax refund proposal beneficial to families unreasonable and depraved because you would not give this money back to Hungarian families, but would spend it on immigrants and immigration, so that they can meet in Brussels and support you in Brussels in 2022, because you want to win elections not through the Hungarian people, but through their supporters in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[István Szilárd Németh: That's right! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-30	Dear House, Erika Kissné Köles is now speaking before the Slovenian minority spokesperson in five minutes. I would ask you to understand that there is no way in which you can fulfill your request to speak about the pulpit. The house rules don't allow that at the moment. She will say her first sentences in her ethnic language, which she will then translate into Hungarian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-06-14-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani gospod Predsednik, Zbor Cenjeni! V prazničnem vzdušju pozdravljam vse poslanke in poslance ter zagovornice in zagovornike državnega zbora Madžarske. Slovenija, matična domovina naše slovenke skupnosti namreč letos praznuje okroglo 30. obletnico svoje samostojnosti in neodvisnosti. Dan, odkar obstaja kot samostojna država, 25. junij 1991, je za Republiko Slovenskijo ter vse njene državljanke in državljane zgodovinski datum. Kot parlamentarna zagovornica Slovenskev na Madžarschem sem ponosna, da neverdni državi Madžarske, Slovenski, matični domovini Slovenskev v zamejstvu lahko obletnici čestitam v parliamentu Madžarske. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In a festive atmosphere, I welcome all Members of Parliament and Spokespersons today. Slovenia celebrates the 30th anniversary of the independence and independence of the mother country of the Slovenian community in Hungary. Since the existence of Slovenia as an independent state, 25 June 1991 is a historic date for the Republic of Slovenia and all its citizens; of course it is also for the Slovenians in Hungary. As Parliamentary spokesperson for Slovenians in Hungary, I am proud to welcome to the Hungarian Parliament the political leaders, citizens and fellow nations of our neighbouring country, Slovenia. The existence of an independent Republic of Slovenia has brought many new opportunities for Slovenians in Hungary in political, cultural, educational, ecclesiastical and economic areas, but it also helps to preserve our Slovenian identity and language to a significant extent that we are also part of a Slovenian nation with an independent state. 25 June 1991 also marks the emergence of a new European country on the map of Europe and the world. Hungary was among the first to recognise the autonomous Slovenian state. The Hungarian-Slovenian good neighbourly relations experienced over 30 years have a significant role to play in the development of nationalities living in the territory of both countries. The Slovenians in Hungary and the Hungarian community in Slovenia wish to participate consciously in maintaining and developing this good neighbourly relationship. Since its formation thirty years ago, Slovenia supports our largest Slovenian NGO, the Slovenian Association of Hungarians celebrating its 30th anniversary, the Slovenian Region Nonprofit Kft. The Slovenian Cultural and Information Centre in Szentgotthárd, the Slovenian Radio and the Slovenian Model Economy built on the Upper Selfs, supported Hungarian-Slovenian bilingual education and supports Slovenian media through the provision of professionals. Several Slovenian-Hungarian cross-border projects have made progress in our region, which are managed by Slovenian organisations. Hungary's ethnic policy has also brought a great deal of positive results to the Slovenian community over the past decade. The operation of Slovenian municipalities, the National Slovenian Municipality and its institutions, the government and its State Secretary responsible for ecclesiastical and ethnic relations contribute significantly to the development of local communities, the Slovenian Rába region in Hungary. We expect further joint results along the cooperation agreements that have been in place between the two countries for decades. I believe that the recommendations made at the meetings of the Slovenian-Hungarian Intergovernmental Minority Committee and their adoption, as well as their implementation, will enrich the two countries as well as their majority societies. We look forward to further economic developments coming into our region through the Slovenian-Hungarian Fund, which will also be proof of good cooperation between Slovenia and Hungary. Slovenia is a small country of Europe with wonderful natural features. As a Hungarian citizen of Slovenian nationality, I wish that his development should be undisturbed, preserve and preserve all his natural and cultural values as a treasure, and that every Slovenian living at home, beyond the border or in the world as a small nation should also be a caretaker. Hvala, da ste mi prisluhnili! Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-14-32	On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond.
u2021-06-14-33	Dear Speaker Woman, I would like to thank you very much for your speech on the celebration of Slovenia, on the achievement of freedom and on the strengthening of Slovenia's statehood. [[Speaking to opposition representatives:]] I would like to apologize to you on behalf of the right-wing and DK representatives, namely Ágnes Vadai, György Szilágyi, Péter Jakab, Balázs Ander and György László Lukács, who do not want to celebrate with you. On a day like that, they don't want to remember with you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, including: Where do you see this? Viktor Orbán, Zsolt Semjén, Máté Kocsis! Shame on you. You hate me!]] when Slovenia was saved from a terrible war when Slovenia lost about five dozen citizens at the beginning of the battle [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: Shame on you! That's all you got, pointing at other people.]] But thank God, thank God, after a few weeks, the war ended in Slovenian territory [[A statement from Jobbik's benches: Do you hate me?]] And with that, if you consider that Zagreb, Skopje, Sarajevo, Mostar or other southern Slavic cities did not end up in Ljubljana, Celje, Maribor, Kranj and the other wonderful cities, this is a huge holiday. Thank you very much for sharing your views on the holiday, sharing the joy that the Slovenians in Hungary have experienced, and we Hungarians have also lived because the government and government of that time, the parliament, helped the Slovenians fight for freedom. I would add that, after thirty years, we will continue to live by the fact that the Slovenians in Hungary went up thanks to the possibilities, because before, let's say, communist, let's say, left-wing leadership pushed them into the villages and settlements of the Hungarian-Slovenian Drava region for 40 years, but there was no way out. There was no coming out because they did not support the language, they did not support the school, they did not support their cultural activities. [[14.30]] Now these 30 years have made a difference, thank God. It has made a difference in many areas, and I thank you, as a spokesperson, and thank you to your leaders, your small, but all the more so as to strengthen cooperation, who serve all of this. I believe that the cooperation between the government, the Fidesz-KDNP, and, of course, among the other nationalities, has developed in addition to your small nationality, will serve and serve preservation, survival and long-term cooperation. In recent years, we have supported the various architectural investments, events and programmes of Apatistvánfalva, Lower and Upper Szentgotthárd and Orfalu. Churches are renewed, landscape houses are renewed, community houses are renewed. A few weeks ago, we were able to reconstruct and expand a school, the kindergartens could be renewed, and all of this was a collaboration, and I would add that this cooperation helps mutually to ensure that both in the Slovenian Rába region you and in the Hungarian Mura region remain nationalities. This is the result of the economic support and development programme, which, by the way, was challenged by the opposition in the recent national minority law debate, but they just don't know how it is, because they don't listen, because they're always yelling and talking to each other. [[There's a rumble and a clear line from Jobbik and DK.]] They don't care what's going on in Parliament and what's going on in reality, they're just busy with themselves. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Your group leader is not here either! Why are you talking like that?]] Nothing else. Dear Speaker Woman, I can tell you that in the next period you can count on the Government of Hungary, we will always help you. The Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance will always support your aspirations, your linguistic, cultural, religious and other aspirations, and we will always be there for you. From the opposition on the left, we have now seen how they celebrate with you, how they behave when they should be celebrated. They say they love you and your ethnicities, but when it comes to voting, it's about listening to you in Parliament and listening to your voice, they're sitting around with all kinds of shit. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Hateful! Secretary of the State of Hate! Sit down. It's a hypocrite hater!]] and yelling and talking to each other. [[Intercom from Jobbik's ranks: You also used this for hatred!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Tomorrow will be a big day here in Parliament again. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: hypocrite! Is the Pope going to meet you? The president's ringing the bell.]] because we are going to vote on two things: one is the law that concerns you and the other is the budget. They can count on us. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Shame on you! Poor bastard! Hateful!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-34	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Hateful! Your own faction leader isn't even here, so what are you showing off for? I'm sure you'll get a bonus. Don't shake your voice another time.]]
u2021-06-14-35	Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Gergely Kolló, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; and Balázs Ander, Jobbik. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Szabó Timea, Dialogue; Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP; László Varju, DK; Tamás Harangozó, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Harrach, KDNP; and János Halász, Fidesz. On the day after the agenda tomorrow, Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kolló, Jobbik; Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, Jobbik; Dóra Dúró, independent; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; and Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz.
u2021-06-14-36	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check: 144 present, 55 absent.]] Dear Parliament, The Government initiated the Parliament to negotiate in exceptional proceedings the 2013 CLXXVII on transitional and empowering provisions relating to the entry into force of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. T/16565. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate shall take place as item 1 of the agenda on 15 June 2021, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote shall take place on 15 June 2021. The proposal for an exception is T/16565/1. Members were able to get to know him on the website. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, i.e. one hundred Members, to order an exceptional procedure. The decision will now take place. I'm asking you, do you accept the T/16565. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has ordered an exceptional procedure by 116 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted today at 5:37 p.m. The Government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the XC of 2020 on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/16566. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate shall take place on 15 June 2021 as item 2 of the agenda, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote shall take place on 15 June 2021. The proposal for an exception T/16566/1. My fellow Members also got to know him on the website. We now have a decision to make again. I'm asking you, do you accept the T/1656. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the motion for an exceptional procedure by 115 votes in favour, 26 votes against and one abstention. The amendment proposals can be submitted for 17 hours and 38 minutes. Dear House, We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Group of Dialogue proposed that, among the decisions and decisions taken on Tuesday 14-15 June, T/16225 on the Fudan Hungary University Foundation and on the asset allocation to the Fudan Hungary University Foundation. Bill No. 1 and the T/16226 on the implementation of Budapest Student City. The final vote and the final vote should not be decided on the final proposal for a legislative amendment. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House does not support this proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that the sitting be held at 8 a.m. on Tuesday 15 June, at no earlier than 12:30 a.m., and that the secret vote on the election of the new member of the Constitutional Council be held at 30 minutes instead of the 40 minutes indicated on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:40 p.m., we're moving to interpellation negotiations. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[14.40]] I would like to ask my fellow pro-government Members to leave the Chamber quickly. Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice, on whose behalf State Secretary Pál Völner will respond. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2021-06-14-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, The European Public Prosecutor's Office started operating on 1 June 2021. The purpose of the establishment of the new institution is to investigate, investigate and prosecute fraud and other criminal offences affecting the European Union's financial interests. The main areas of his work are the detection of fraud related to EU expenditure and revenue, the detection of VAT fraud, the detection of crimes to whiten funds from the EU budget, the investigation of active and passive government bribery or fraudulent treatment that violates the EU's financial interests, and the investigation of participation in a criminal organisation when organised activities are directed against the EU budget. Dear Secretary of State, These are all problems which Hungarian law enforcement agencies should and should also investigate. On the other hand, we see very few cases of abuse in the EU's money going to court or are rarely held accountable. Even if there are reports, even from OLAF, they either don't start or usually end in investigative studies. In addition, two thirds of Fidesz-KDNP have also made a change in the law that if the prosecutor is not the victim, he cannot even complain to the higher investigative body about the termination of the investigation. Obviously, this rule also helps to make it as difficult as possible for public money users who fish in confusion, deliberately circumvent or break legislation to be held accountable by public authorities. It is no coincidence that corruption in Hungary has increased to this extent recently, and we can even say that it has become systemic. In this situation, only the creation of a priority, independent anti-corruption prosecution and accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office could improve. But we see no government intention to improve in any way. The countries of the European Union have already largely joined or joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the past few days. Last time Sweden announced that they wanted to join us from 2022, and we have now reached the point that only Poland, Denmark and Ireland were left out outside our country. Although Denmark and Ireland are bound by the Accession Treaty to have the opportunity to do so, this has even been confirmed by a referendum in Denmark. The intention of citizens in Hungary is to eliminate corruption in our country, as there is a great deal of support for the idea of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Obviously, it is no coincidence that about 680,000 people have already signed a questionnaire for this purpose. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] To join this international organization. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the above, I therefore appeal to you with the question that there is a government intention to combat corruption in Hungary. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If so, how do you intend to achieve it? Join the European Public Prosecutor's Office; if not, why not? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-38	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2021-06-14-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, For us, staying away from the European Public Prosecutor's Office is a matter of sovereignty [[Bence of Turdai: Of course!]] We believe that there are areas of integration where further cooperation would significantly reduce the autonomy of the Member States and that accession does not fit our Fundamental Law. Let us not forget that all European Member States, including Hungary, have the right to remain out of this cooperation. Any pressure that goes in a different direction also violates the Union's own rules. Not to mention the establishment of an organization whose first leader denies in itself the unbiased nature of the organization. Laura Codruţa Kövesi, current Head of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, has previously conducted a conceptual procedure against Hungarian politicians in Romania, and at the time the Hungarian political elite agreed that these procedures should be condemned as they violate and attack the fundamental values of the rule of law. I'm sorry that Ferenc Gyurcsány has already forgotten that. Ladies and gentlemen, There are contradictions in your speech. In January 2020, you replied to the question of what you are truly proud of in your career, especially the persistence that resulted in you protesting against the Gyurcsány regime more than 366 times over three and a half years between 2006 and 2010. That's the perseverance you've had since then, it looks like you've lost it. At present, in the framework of the pre-election act, you are now making an alliance with the people whose system was regularly taken to the streets on a weekly basis. What is more, in 2013, you said that one of the most important tasks is accountability, which has failed, and this means not only the years after the change of government, but also accountability for the crimes of the years after the change of regime. I respectfully ask Mr President how, on the basis of what has been said, it is possible that Jobbik will join forces with the DK and the MSZP, in the midst of a huge fight against corruption, which it has set out to be accounted for. Or will they not be subject to accountability? Given the collapse on the left, it has now become clear that it is more important for you to build your own power than to protect the Hungarian people. Dear House, When the government decides on economic matters, it's in the best interest of the country, the nation. We have three basic requirements for businesses who receive public orders: to comply with the laws, to pay taxes and to carry out the work entrusted to them at the highest level. The government remains committed to fighting corruption. At the same time, we would ask you to start cleaning up public life in order to act effectively by expelling and blaming the party president for whom you have been declared accountable and whose resignation has been demanded for more than three years. Don't cheat, don't betray your own constituents. We do not accept that, as you have subjected Jobbik to DK, Hungary should be subject to the Union without limitation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-40	Once again, Mr. Congressman has the floor.
u2021-06-14-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary, I would like to start by saying that this is not the kind of genre where you ask questions, and I will answer them. We hope that, in a year's time, you or your fellow Members, fellow Members from Fidesz, KDNP, will have the opportunity to interpel the ministers and State Secretarys of the current opposition, but unfortunately you will have to wait until May next year. So here I can only say that, just under your governance, we have achieved that in the European Union, the corruption perception index has increased in Hungary to such an extent that, while nine years ago we were still in the middle of the European Union, we have now reached the point of becoming the last state to compete with Bulgaria and Romania. I can't accept that answer because it further strengthens this path. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-14-42	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will be taken on tomorrow's meeting for each unapproved interpellation. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. The Minister of State, Róbert Zsigó, who is responsible for families, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2021-06-14-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, While the government expects a 5.2 percent increase in GDP by 2022, the social area will be reduced again next year. Families living in poverty, small pensioners, people with social problems, unemployed people cannot count on this government. The 2022 budget is only for members and business friends of the government, but it is another loss for many hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, since the benefits and subsidies that have not changed since the years have been virtually outdated. [[14.50]] The past year and a half have brought a serious economic and social crisis to the world and to us. In a crisis, the social network needs to be strengthened, not allowed to continue. However, according to the government's intentions, there will be essentially no substantive intervention on the basis of social security. What kind of reboot would be for those whose salaries, pensions and any support are carried away monthly by the brutal increase in food prices? ! Family allowances under subjective rights remain unchanged: family allowances, children, children, maternity allowance, and even baby bonds will remain unchanged for 14 years next year, as will the minimum pension. The appropriation for maternity allowance is even decreasing. It is among the benefits due to the poorest, which has not changed in 16 years, such as, say, public health care. The amount of the employment replacement allowance has been HUF 22 800 for 10 years. The health and child care allowance for those who are primarily excluded from disability benefits is also extremely low, and the average benefit is less than HUF 29 000. It's inhumane to give a man such a small amount of money to make a living, but the government doesn't touch it like it's all right. The Parliament has just adopted the proposal to increase the child support fee for single-parent families, which was reduced by Fidesz in 2012. In principle, the amount of care will now increase and the number of beneficiaries will increase, compared with the corresponding budget allocation falling by HUF 60 million next year. What's going to make money for this, even if they cut the budget line? Dear Secretary of State, Do you consider yourselves family-friendly? ! Do you really want to end your government in 2022 without raising your family allowance, child benefit and maternity allowance in any year? ! Yes, we know that since the Minister's appointment, HUF 3.4 billion has been spent on poster campaigns. I think he should have been better off supporting families. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'll ask the Secretary of State what they're going to do about it. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-06-14-44	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2021-06-14-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The mildest wording I can say to you, Congresswoman, is that you misinformed and unsure Hungarian people and Hungarian families. I understand that you have to meet your old-new boss, and you have to play politics with hundreds of tricks, but the Hungarian people deserve more than that. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And speaking of who and who did what, who strengthened the social safety net, as you said, I would like to remind the Honourable Parliament that it was you, Congresswoman, who were the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments who were listening before 2010 and now! The regular child protection allowance has been abolished, the 13th month family allowance has been abolished. The upper age limit of the family allowance was maximized for 20 years instead of 23; family tax incentives were narrowed down, and it was also abolished for single and two children. They reduced the duration of the plant, doubled the price of electricity, tripled the price of residential natural gas. They eliminated preferential, interest-supported housing loans, home creation, and then pushed hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families into the trap of foreign exchange loans. They introduced the visitation fee, the hospital daily allowance and the tuition fee, i.e. they also reduced the chances of our poorer compatriots getting a healthy life, and you were the ones who took away the 13th month's pension, and then you stand up and ask us to count. Dear House, Congresswoman was talking about falling subsidies, so let's see what the truth is. Compared to 2021, the budget for social, child protection and child welfare services will increase by HUF 53 billion next year, which is two and a half times the amount for 2010. The budget for families will continue to increase, which will increase by almost three times compared to 2010. Contrary to the suggestion of Congresswoman, the budgetary resources for child feeding have nearly tripled in 12 years. The Congresswoman underestimates the value of baby bonds, while the popularity of the structure is more than anything else indicated by a 30-fold increase in account openings compared to 2010. From 1 January 2021 we launched the largest home creation programme of all time, which can also be used by single - parent families. On 1 July 2019 the Government launched the Family Protection Action Plan. From 1 July 2021, the amount of the family allowance will increase from 70 per cent of the gross income that can be taken into account to 100 per cent, thus giving mothers a higher amount of benefits than their previous net earnings. Single-parent families will be assisted by targeted measures from 2022, on the one hand, by making the rules on child support easier and, on the other hand, by doubling the minimum amount of orphanage. I would like to inform the congresswoman that the advance child support and the budget appropriations for maternity support are open from above, so that all families who wish to use it will be able to make use of this. The government will re-establish the 13th month pension and, as of 1 January 2021, the pension increase based on equity and the authorisation limit for one-off aid will also be increased. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have not supported, among other things, the increase in the care fee here in Parliament. Please decide whose side you are on now and tell us what the goal of the left is: to help Ference Gyurcsány back into power, and to bring back the period of austerity, or to support the Hungarian families and help them prosper, because the two are not compatible. Hungarian families can still count on us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-46	Thank you very much, Mr Róbert Zsigo. I ask Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2021-06-14-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't accept it. You know, Secretary of State, after twelve years, it's sad enough that all they know is that Gyurcsány, Gyurcsány, Gyurcsány, and the past eight years, the past eight years, the past eight years, of which you have already spent twelve years. You're saying I'm the one who misleads the Hungarian families? Did you say we canceled the 13th month's family allowance? We introduced it, and we didn't eliminate it, but double the family allowance, and so we led it through. So please, Mr. Secretary, don't lie here in Parliament. And, you know, Secretary of State, if you think it's okay that the family allowance hasn't increased in 12 years, the children and the children, and they haven't raised the minimum pension, from which social benefits are calculated, then I would like to remind you of another thing: the family tax allowance was introduced in 2011 and the one child and the three children have not increased this amount since then, not just the family allowance, Mr. State Secretary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's also family tax relief. So, please, just hold back and look in the mirror, and from now on, don't tell me you support the families, because that's not true. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-14-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you that Mrs Congresswoman has therefore not accepted the answer. In accordance with our adopted agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: å The Hungarians are living worse and worse, why is the Orbán government not doing something? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2021-06-14-49	Dear House, The fact is that we have to tell you that the interpellations had to be submitted last week, so I suspect that you will refer to the Government's new empty promises and minimum wage in your reply, but I am bound by the house rules to ask the original questions of the interpellation, and I will be able to answer them in return. Dear House, In Hungary, Hungarian people, especially those who live on wages and salaries, unlike the Prime Minister, are increasingly living worse and worse. They have to suffer record inflation in Europe, the outlook is getting worse in this respect, and let's translate it: everything is becoming more expensive from potatoes to fruit to petrol. This is why it is particularly important that minimum wages keep pace with increasing inflation. The 4-percent minimum wage increase adopted at the beginning of the year has basically been eaten by inflation. This means that while, at least in your statistics, the Hungarian economy is once again soaring, there is nothing for those who earn their bread with their two hands, who work hard. [[15.00]] While the Hungarian billionaires' wealth grew by a third, with hundreds of billions of HUF during the crisis, the losers of the crisis do not even receive the minimum wage increase from you. According to Eurostat data, the Hungarian minimum wage in January 2021 was EUR 442. This means that since Viktor Orbán has been ruling, the minimum wage has increased more in all the neighbouring countries than in Hungary, including, of course, the Visegrád countries. In Poland, the minimum wage increased by 76 percent, in the Czech Republic by 81 percent, in Slovakia by 97%, in Bulgaria, Lithuania and Romania by more than three times. The consequence of this is that today, in euros, we are only overtaking Bulgarians at the minimum wage, but as I see it, Bulgaria will soon drive away a corrupt, stealing government like you, so soon the Bulgarians will be ahead of us, too, if we continue this way. After this, we were shocked, although we were not surprised to hear that the Hungarian government was opposed to the introduction of a European minimum wage, it is opposed to counting the minimum wage everywhere in Europe on the basis of uniform rules, so that Hungarian workers would also be protected in Europe, so that the minimum wage would depend not only on your convenience, but not only on your ideas at the moment. So my questions are: why, in addition to increasing inflation, is the minimum wage increase you promised earlier in the summer missed, and why is the government against the European minimum wage, why does the government think that a Hungarian worker is worth less than a working partner working in another country in Europe? [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-06-14-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-06-14-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There is something peculiarly bizarre about you standing up here in the National Assembly and falsely speaking about the fact that the Hungarian people are in trouble. I know it's hard to remember, and I'd like to make it undone, by the way, but let me remind you of what you did when you were on the wheel. On the one hand, unemployment was at the top and on the other hand, Hungarian people were driven into foreign exchange lending. But they took a month's salary from them, a month's pension, a breakdown of health care, a reduction of the child, a cessation of the home-building program, a family tax reduction, a real estate tax, a raise of the VAT key, a double increase in the price of electricity and a triple in the price of residential gas, and, in addition, bankrupting the municipalities. Then, in the municipalities in which they came to power, restrictions were decided, not in 2008, honourable Member, not in 2008. but in 2020. They cut wages, took salaries from people, the workers there. And while a country, a nation, can unite against the virus, while the left side, you pull yourselves out of it. The left did not support the families, did not support the businesses, the measures that we have taken in their behalf. If it were up to you, there wouldn't have been a wage subsidy or a credit moratorium. This is exactly like cheering for the opponent instead of the Hungarian National Team, honourable Member. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Let's say the Irish.]] Which, of course, in your party is not just a theoretical option. Last time, their intellectual big shot, Péter Niedermüller, said that he thought it was better to be Irish than to be Hungarian. But let's look at the pay question. During the eight-year governance of the left, between 2002-2010, the minimum wage was raised by only HUF 23 500; the national government, on the other hand, increased from HUF 73 500 to HUF 167 400, a 127 percent increase. On the other hand, the statistical office of the European Union was not ours, based on the data of the statistical office of the Union, the Hungarian was the fourth largest minimum wage increase in national currency over 11 years and the largest of the V4s. So it's complete false news you're saying, honourable Member. And with all this, we are working on it, and that is what we want to do to increase wages, especially the minimum wage. It is no coincidence that we have set ourselves a minimum wage of HUF 200,000, because the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage will also affect the increase in other wages. But in order to achieve this, we need to help small and medium-sized enterprises, primarily through tax reductions. You want to raise taxes, you talk about it, you want to raise taxes on companies. We believe that the opposite must be done, and that is why we are reducing taxes now, because there must be consistency between raising the minimum wage and preserving the competitiveness of SMEs. This is therefore an important issue, and we will therefore also ask the Hungarian people for their opinion in the context of the forthcoming national consultation. The European minimum wage you're talking about is a non-existent thing, a standard Gyurcsányist fake news, just now from the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2021-06-14-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Gergely Arató, a notary, to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2021-06-14-53	The Secretary of State may have jumped even further than usual in replying to the ground of reality. The importance of the wages of Hungarian workers and the wages of Hungarian workers was well shown that in the crucial part of his contribution he did not talk about this, but about many other things. He wasn't telling much of the truth. I personally interpelled you here in Parliament to provide real wage support, and it's not bullshit. We didn't attack the wage subsidies. [[Tamás János Schanda: You voted off!]] We've been shorthanded, dear Secretary of State, both the time and the amount. On the subject of the minimum wage, you are doing the trick of forgetting that you evaluated the work of the Hungarian people by conscious and deliberate destruction of the forint. The comparison I was talking about is in euro, as is gasoline, for example, in euro, from the world market, and the country acquires many others. So you're devaluing the forint, devaluing the wages. And there is so much European minibal wage that Minister Palkovic, your minister, held a press conference on their opposition to the European minimum wage. Minister Palkovic is fighting lies, not real phantoms. I assume a lot of bad things about him, but at least I don't expect his own Secretary of State to admit it. Thank you very much and I do not accept your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2021-06-14-54	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When does the government start acting for public employees? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2021-06-14-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, In recent times, the burden of social workers and educators has tripled, while the government ignores them at all, does not receive extra wage supplements, frozen wages are not suitable for a normal standard of living, there is no professional, mental support for increased burden. Unfortunately, they do not give the young generation the opportunity to receive an adequate level of education, to be taught by energetic, proactive and professional teachers, nor to give respect to their elders to spend their senior years in decent conditions and in the framework of proper care. Instead, burned-out, desperate, existentially insecure teachers try to teach our children in the impossible circumstances, and weary social workers take care of our parents, our elderly relatives, beyond their strength. It's just the teachers, the social workers that make the wheels of the economy work well. A significant proportion of Hungarian citizens are currently working as civil servants, so the annual change in the civil servant pay table is definitely a major event; that is, if we could talk about the world-class salaries following inflation in Western Europe. Instead, social workers, regardless of their education and occupation, hardly carry more than 190 thousand forints home, and teachers do not fill their wallets with their average monthly salary of 250 thousand forints. This is one of the reasons why there is a significant movement of resources in the social and educational fields. This year, for example, 3 000 full-time teachers started the school year 2020/21. In both the social and educational sectors, there is at least 10 percent shortage of labour, which causes enormous additional difficulties for workers, greater stress, greater potential for error. [[15.10]] The State has a duty to develop the social care system and to support teachers, as they must perform activities guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. The aim of the LMP is to ensure that civil servants and everyone who serves the physical, mental and spiritual building and development of Hungarian society are able to work under decent conditions of pay and respect. To achieve this, Mr Secretary, it is not enough to thank you for your work in your speeches before the agenda. I ask the Secretary of State when teachers and social workers will finally receive a higher salary than humiliating. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-06-14-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When it comes to public sector wages, before you raise your voice, honourable Member, say a few words to those with whom you are running for election, who supported you in your own individual district. [[Antal Csárdi laughs.]] You're laughing at this. You're laughing at it. [[Antal Csárdi: No! I'm laughing at you!]] That they took a month's wages from social workers. You're laughing at the fact that in addition to health care workers, teachers have been taken away from a month's wages. Of course, teachers have been dismissed, 15,000 teachers have been dismissed by your allies, which you laugh at, but for many who have had their full existence in trouble, this has not been so ridiculous. And we wouldn't want to bring back the time when the wages of social workers fell when the wages of teachers fell. Because since the change of regime, you have not yet been able to say a government that has reduced not only the pension of pensioners, but also the wages of teachers, doctors, nurses and social workers, but only the government in which you are running and running for elections. It was only you, honourable Member, who have reduced wages in Hungary for those who deserve credit both orally and morally and financially and in money. So, one day, you'll have to talk to your allies about it before you make such speeches here in Parliament. As far as freezing is concerned, honourable Member, we are spending 141 percent more on health care, so we are spending nearly two and a half times as much as the last budget presented by your allies in 2010. We spend 71 percent more on primary schools, secondary schools and kindergartens than the last one on the left; we spend 158 percent more on social benefits, which means that more than two and a half times more on social benefits now, of course, this includes the coverage of wage increases than the last left-wing government in Hungary. Next year, there will be 57 billion HUF more for social services. We started the wage increases with teachers, we launched a 50 percent multi-annual wage increase programme, and last July, while there was indeed a leasing freeze in all countries of the world, as you said, wages have been frozen in many countries, not in Hungary. From 1 July 2020 we increased teachers' salaries by 10 percent, and we also made an even larger increase for directors, with a 30-50 increase. You've been throwing numbers around here, you're just confusing the season with the guy, because you're saying the salary of the teacher at the bottom of your career, which is the size of a career wage, honourable Member. Please don't mix these up. Who is a teacher II. He is in grade, and he has been working for two decades, and he can earn around 368 thousand forints. As a result of this increase, he has been a teacher and teacher for 35 years. A graduate teacher with a university degree can earn 688 thousand forints; and a teacher who is over a thousand people, i.e. a very large school, can bring home a higher gross amount, honourable Member. For social workers, too, in the year in which there were difficulties in many countries around the world due to the coronal virus epidemic, we were able to carry out a 14 percent wage increase in Hungary. But this was not the first wage increase, since in 2014 we introduced a wage supplement of HUF 12 billion, which increased the salary of 90,000 employees, and in 2015 we introduced a salary supplement in the social sphere, which meant an average gross increase of HUF 16 thousand to 66 thousand people, and this means an annual increase of HUF 16 billion. In 2017 and 2018 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] With a surplus of HUF 9 billion, we were able to provide 30-35 thousand forints not only for daycare workers, but also for those working in the social sector. [[The president's ringing again.]] You can only think of cuts, and we can think of wage increases. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Antal Csárdi to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-06-14-59	Dear Secretary of State, The thing is, your performance is all about being pointed back to 12 years ago after 12 years of government. I would like to point out, Mr. Secretary, that a starting teacher costs as much bread as an institution manager, and a career starter will not be able to make a living on the salary you give him. And our children's education is typically done by fewer general educators than the head of the institution. I would like to point out that as a teacher in child protection today 32 years of work with four degrees and a teaching exam, 235 thousand forints will be taken home by a teacher colleague. I think that there should not be a debate in this House about the fact that this is not right. Shame on you that you can still only play tricks instead of taking meaningful steps to make sure that the pedagogical society is not so infinitely exploited! Thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-60	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Will you withdraw your bill on Fudan until the referendum? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Tordai, notary, is the subject.
u2021-06-14-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. The events that have taken place since the Fudan Act was filed are well known. On the 5th of June, a long-lost protest crowd gathered in the streets of Budapest, many arrived from the countryside, and Kossuth Square was full. At the same time as the protest, a survey revealed that two thirds of Hungarians are opposed to the Fudan University, which is closing down the Student City. The next day, Chancellor Gergely Gulyás said that the case of the University of Fudan does not exist at present in a form suitable for public debate. This was confirmed by Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga on 7 June, and also by Viktor Orbán since the submission of the interpellation. All of this means that tomorrow no bill will be put to the vote on the Foundation for the University of Fudan, on the asset allocation to the Foundation for the University of Fudan and on the implementation of Budapest Student City in this form. After all, the laws designate a series of state properties for transfer, so where the government plans to build a half a billion-dollar Hungarian taxpayers' money, mostly from Chinese credit to the Hungarian wallet, and where it would plan the highly mutilated, original plans to provide housing for nearly 18 thousand students and young families, but now a third-fifth of the student town. Gergely Gulyás also said that we do not want to do good to the people, so we do not want to do good to the people of Budapest against their will, so we support that if the conditions of the investment are known, the Budapest people can decide in a referendum that they want Fudan University. If the decision is indeed left to the people, then the Parliament cannot vote tomorrow on the bill deciding the fate of the investments. Dear Secretary of State, As Gergely Christmas, Hungary's next prime minister, said at the Fudan demonstration, the Fudan case is also about the fact that there is nothing more destructive, there is nothing more harmful, there is nothing more repulsive than the power that has no moral purpose. There's nothing more destructive, there's nothing more harmful, there's nothing more repulsive than the power for itself that serves the few instead of the majority. There's nothing more destructive, there's nothing more harmful, there's nothing more repulsive than the power that serves private interests than the public interest. I ask you to consider the above lines when you answer my question: will you withdraw your bill on Fudan until the referendum? I look forward to your reply.
u2021-06-14-62	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. [[15.20]]
u2021-06-14-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am surprised that Ferenc Gyurcsány divided this interpellation into you after the fact that the Christmas party, your Deputy Group leader, Sándor Burány made racist statements about Chinese people at the last meeting of the Parliament; I am not the only one who said that, honourable Member, the entire left-wing media said that; it is strange that you should then be the one to explain this interpellation. The case of Fudan University itself started as a professional issue of higher education, from which the left made a political circus; it wants to use this otherwise important issue and important issue for its petty, provincial political purposes. They're looking into something that isn't yet, and they're starting to fight it. You have even questioned last time, honourable Member, that the University of Fudan, the University of Fudan, which has just moved forward on the basis of the latest international rankings, is now the 31st best university in the world, otherwise there is no such university in the entire European Union. The peak of political hysteria was the protest against the establishment of the Budapest campus of Fudan University a week ago, which you spoke about. This didn't make any sense, we said this several times, because the process is only in the planning process, there is no decision on the costs or implementation, only in the hands of the agreed plans in the second half of 22 years. And if the metropolitan and district leaders really wanted to work instead of political acrobatics, protests and street signs, then at the negotiating table I could help with the issues of Student City and Fudan University, the preparations; otherwise it will be their responsibility, Congressman, their responsibility, it will be your responsibility that if this area where these developments would take place would remain a rust cemetery, as you call it a beekeeper. As opposed to you, we want Hungarian young people and Hungary to be the winner of the future, this is also the goal of university development, and if anyone thinks about this issue, then you can see that the issues of Student City and the University belong together, all of them serve the cause of Hungarian youth. Honourable Congressman, As I have already said, no decision has been taken to finance the construction of campus, contrary to the opposition's political rumours. You can decide that when the plans are made, you will have the costs, you have the choice and you have something to talk about. But that is why we support it if you have already made a political issue out of a professional issue, so that the people of Budapest can express their views on this issue, on the political decision, and on the decision of the political debate is a referendum, when you can see exactly what we are deciding, that is, the plans are made, the costs are ready. And allow me also to draw your attention to the fact that the whole case is transparent in order to complete the bill, and the point is that the Parliament must report to Parliament by 31 December 22nd. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the results of the preparations. Thank you very much for the floor, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Bence Tordai, notary, to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-06-14-65	Well, Mr. Secretary, if you're gonna run away with such cowards, you're gonna try to be honest at least this time, and you're not gonna lie about not being specific. I will quote the words of your minister literally, a journalist's question, "How do you see it, more than 500 billion or less?" He replied, "I trust that the cost will be lower." When we looked at the kind of training we wanted to start, we looked at the type of infrastructure they needed, there will be labs, educational spaces, dorms, sports fields, conference rooms. From this comes the 520,000 square meters, if we multiply this by approximately one million forints today in Hungary a property of this quality and structure costs this much per square metre, then the sum of approximately 540 billion will come out. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What else do you need? Your minister flaunted the plans that the originally 26-acre student town would shrink to 6 hectares, and 20 hectares would be eaten by the University of Fudan. He admitted that the cost of this would be more than HUF 500 billion, which we Hungarians will stand for a university where Hungarian students cannot learn without tuition. What are we talking about? Then what do you want a referendum on? If this law is passed tomorrow, if they vote in favour of property relief, if they vote in favour of real estate reconnaissance, then what are we going to do about it? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] consult in December 22? Nothing, because you will no longer be in power. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Tamás János Schanda: Vasapplause!]]
u2021-06-14-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology:. By what measures does the Government help Hungarian businesses to recover? It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2021-06-14-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to the Hungarian vaccination strategy, it is now possible to say that the third wave of the virus has been broken. This struggle was neither conflict-free nor simple. If we listened to Brussels and the Hungarian left, the third wave would probably still be going on in Hungary, but the Hungarian government, led by Fidesz, has always been more important to protect people's health, the economy, keeping jobs, keeping businesses alive than the so-called compliance pressure. Today, we can say that families and businesses have been freed from much of the restrictions and can plan more freely, they have the opportunity to start the economy earlier than other European countries. Anyone who responds quickly gets further, knows that every business. Our aim now is to ensure that the reboot can take place as soon as possible in most sectors, and, of course, the government can not only help businesses with the opening date, but also directly help and want to help businesses. Tax and contribution reductions, efficiency-enhancing and competitiveness-enhancing subsidies, and the introduction of labour market steps will make a major contribution to preserving the results of the last ten years. The government has agreed that as many jobs as the epidemic takes, it will create so much. This is, of course, not an easy task under restrictions, because jobs can be created if there is economic freedom, if there is entrepreneurship, and thus businesses are set in motion, and production starts, so that the economy is back to normal. The government's economic reconstruction action plan will allow everyone who has been put in a difficult situation to recover as soon as possible. Supporting investment in businesses is key to a successful relaunch, since if domestic businesses emerge from the crisis stronger, the protection of Hungarian jobs is also guaranteed. Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to the measures taken by the government, we expect the gradual re-launch of the economy to lead to further recovery in the labour market, further strengthening of businesses. As opposed to left-wing crisis management, the civilian government has chosen a completely opposite crisis management mechanism: it does not damage families and businesses by raising taxes and wages, as the left did at the time, but by helping them with tax incentives and wage subsidies. In this regard, I ask the Secretary of State what measures, what additional measures are being taken by the Government to assist him [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the recovery of Hungarian businesses. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-06-14-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have provided significant support to businesses in difficulty, the sector's wage support has been given to companies in sectors that are in difficulty due to the corona virus, mainly in the field of tourism and catering. [[15.30]] Since November last year, some 30,000 companies have asked for government help to keep 180 thousand employees. With nearly HUF 30 billion in total, we helped to preserve the workplaces of highly qualified professionals in another program, including engineers, IT experts and research and development staff. This is particularly important when we are in a period of re-launching the economy, because we will really be able to get ahead of the curve. Government crisis management is also an outstanding success in international comparison, according to Eurostat's latest data, employment in Hungary has increased to the highest level by the first quarter of 2021. The number of people employed in domestic jobs increased by 1.1 percent compared to the last quarter of last year, making us the EU's top riders. It is also clear that employment in the entire European Union has decreased by 0.2 percent in the first quarter of this year, so the difference between the Hungarian situation and the EU situation is visible, as the number of workers has increased by more than 1 percent in Hungary alone. We are now focusing on the re-launch of the economy, on the further expansion of employment. As you have said, the government will continue to undertake, as has been the case so far, to create at least as many jobs as the virus will destroy and even create more, at least twice as much. In this spirit, we launched the economic re-launch action plan, in which we reduced the VAT on housing to 5 percent, the families receive home renovation support, and gradually rebuild the 13th month pension, which the left took away from the Hungarian pensioners. From 22nd onwards, young people under the age of 25 will be free, which means that the income of Hungarian young people can increase by around 22 percent next year. But we also give the most vulnerable companies a quick start-up loan, so they can use an interest-free loan of HUF 10 million for ten years, which they will only have to start to repay after three years. After the epidemic, we want a safer, less fragile economy. The main aim of the relaunching of the economy is to create a safe economy, in which we count on Hungarian businesses as well. Our aim is, among other things, to become self-sufficient in the field of the production of healthcare devices, but we also see that the Hungarian economy needs to stand on several feet, and therefore, in addition to our Western relations, it is necessary to open in an eastern direction, because the centre of gravity of the world economy is also moving east. We must achieve full employment, create more jobs and ensure that everyone can thrive where they are born in life. For families with children, if this year's GDP growth exceeds 5.5 percent, we will return the personal income tax they paid in 21 at the beginning of next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Szatmáry to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-06-14-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The answer is, of course, accepted. It may seem general, but it is well known that every crisis is also an opportunity, but only if the decision-makers face the necessary courage and commitment to conflict or its difficulties. To do this, in order to really get out of the crisis, it is possible to say that we need to step out of line, take risks sometimes, and take the courage to fight for ourselves. If we look around Europe, thanks to the Hungarian vaccination policy, which has received a lot of attacks, we are today a month or two ahead of opening up than most countries in Europe, and this clearly leads to an improvement in competition in businesses. Once again, we also thank you for this opportunity on behalf of Hungarian entrepreneurs, and we look forward to further help rebooting. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology:. What guarantees the future of the Hungarian Museum of Natural History? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Miklós Kásler, the Minister of Human Resources, has asked Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor.
u2021-06-14-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, From the perspective of the future of the Hungarian Museum of Natural History, I have already expressed very serious concerns when the news flashed that they might want to move this entire institution to Debrecen. Researchers, workers and employees working there have raised a lot of problems, not only their existential problems and professional respect, but also that such a move would seriously endanger a significant part of the museum's population, to give just one example, say, to move an insect collection to Debrecen with great dangers. Not that Debrecen doesn't deserve a good museum of natural sciences, I myself, as a university leader, have an excellent relationship with colleagues there, they deserve a museum of natural sciences no but let's not move Budapest to Debrecen! In addition, museum workers have fallen into the standardization that Fidesz's policy against knowledge and culture expressed by withdrawing the status of civil servants. After all, let's face it that the wage increase is not an obstacle to the public wage table, because it only sets a minimum amount, and, yes, wages are still humiliatingly low in this area, in our opinion, as we, Jobbik, consider Hungarian science and culture to be a traditional national value. Moreover, the work of Director General Zsolt Bernert has increasingly caused problems that have led to very outstanding fluctuations, which already jeopardises normal functioning. Professionals are on the run, you can pronounce it from this museum. For example, the Director-General has made decisions that, say, qualified biologists who are applying will be assigned to the marketing department, and the curatorial places to which, after years of training in a normally professional museum, they will be appointed with a scientific degree, let's say, uploaded to colleagues with preparative qualifications. So, apparently, professionalism can't even be detected in the Director-General's activities, and the atmosphere at work is such that the best experts have run away from the museum in an ambush. In addition, let's face it, he created conditions in this museum that threaten the prestige of the entire museum and the survival of its quality. In the case of museums, the latest news is that L. Simon László was appointed Commissioner. Now, when the Fidesz government appoints a commissioner, there must be something going wrong in a normal administration that should be the way it is in a normally functioning country. So what guarantees, Mr. Secretary, the future of the institution? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-06-14-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-06-14-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is a truly important question, whether it is the National Museum or the Natural History Museum. But before I get to this point, let me quote your own benchmate, Dániel Z. Kárpát from a few years ago: during the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, a carpet bombing took place in terms of Hungarian cultural treasures and values: what was still mobile was privatized, but it was also typical that similar institutions were closed down, left to rot and sold to foreigners at a printed price. This is how Dániel Z. Kárpát talked about the left-wing public collection culture policy that you have now joined. [[Tamás János Schanda: Awkward!]] They've become allies of the left, so they're planning to bomb the carpet, because they've become allies of the carpet bombers, I'd say, branch organization, service organization. This year, in fact last year, precisely because there was an epidemic, and because there was also a change of relationship, we made a 6 percent increase in the cultural sphere out of a surplus of HUF 5 billion, and there is no need to fear cultural institutions or cultural life. [[15.40]] When the carpet bombing was over to live with the words of your fellow party, the government spent 172 billion forints on Hungarian cultural life. Next year's budget, which you will not support, will not spend 172 billion, but HUF 490 billion on the same thing, so we can talk about the strengthening of national culture. Culture is also secondary to Hungary, where the European average is 0.4 per cent of GDP, and we have 1.1 per cent of Hungarian GDP for cultural purposes. But there is indeed an important transformation, honourable Member, that a museum district in downtown may be created. There is a partly existing museum district in the City Park, and another institution can be created from the integration of the National Museum, the Natural History Museum and the Museum of Applied Arts. It is no stranger to other countries: if you look at it, the national museum ensemble in France includes 34 museums. There are many countries where the museum of natural sciences and the national museum are in one institution. Hungary was like this three decades ago, while an institution was the Natural History and National Museum. The National Museum still has countless Philials: The Rákóczi Museum in Sárospatak, the Mátyás Király Museum in Visegrád, the Castle Museum in Esztergom, the Palócmúzeum in Balassagyarmat, Villa Romana or the Ferenc Museum in Szécsény will soon be part of the National Museum, which is why we think that as much as possible, in accordance with the challenges of the age, the life of the museum can be renewed from generation to generation, therefore it is important to develop the Natural History Museum, the National Museum and the Museum of Applied Arts, because they play a very important role in preserving or living our national identity. You may recall that there were similar periods; of course, these museums were divided into several parts, but let's say Klebelsberg was the one who integrated these collections with the establishment of the National Hungarian University of Collection to be in one hand and under the same control as possible. And it is also clear that the example of this is a short decade ago the integration of the Museum of Fine Arts and the Hungarian National Gallery, a success, a result we can see in the snake row, in the very popular exhibitions, in the presentation of the world-class pieces brought here, so this is a good example. The example of this, the example of the City Park museum district, is to go further to a museum district in downtown, where our fellow Member is the Minister for Integration, so we trust that a museum ensemble, which is better suited to the expectations of the time, can meet greater needs, is indeed established, in addition to the fact that the fine arts and national gallery have proved that it has actually been able to produce higher quality. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Brenner Koloman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-06-14-77	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, I cannot accept your reply, since you have not responded in any way to my question in interpellation. The concept of which L. Simon László will combine or integrate museums was not the subject of my interpellation, and I do not think there are any plans to hold a professional debate on this. My specific question concerned the future of the Natural History Museum, and it did not give any meaningful answer. And let me correct your reference to the domestic political situation by saying that, of course, against Fidesz's one-party overpower, we have been forced, under your electoral law, to share a list of forces with which we will now replace you in good cooperation. Jobbik will play a prominent role in this as the only right-wing, Christian-social party of the opposition, because culture is a national foundation for us. [[György Szilágyi: That's right.]] I don't accept your answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2021-06-14-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Families without a wallet:. By what measures does the government help Hungarian families in 2022? It's an address. It is for Congressman Péter Harrach.
u2021-06-14-79	Dear Secretary of State, From 2010 we find that the Fidesz-KDNP administration pays particular attention to support for families. It does this not only in words but also in actions, and in recent years the amount of this support has been increasing, so much so that it accounted for 5 per cent of GDP in 2021. Of course, we can remind you of what happened before 2010, which meant weakening the situation of families, pushing them into foreign currency loans and foreign currency debt. But let's go back to the period after 10:00, when family tax relief became the most important tool for family support. If you look at the period since then, you can see that 3315 billion HUF remained in the family with the help of this family support tool. We can also list some of the elements that were important in the lives of families, of course we can mention these measures without the need for completeness. For example, the family home-building discount, which was later extended with the village CSOK, was introduced for the spouses who were waiting for the child, while mothers with four or more children were granted child-free treatment. Since the introduction of the CSOK, the civilian government has helped one family with four children, a total of 280 thousand families, to achieve their housing goals; along with the housing part of the baby shower support, this amount amounted to HUF 2200 billion. In summary, we can therefore conclude that family support has tripled since 2010; this is one of the highest rates in Europe. Dear Secretary of State, If we look at the time of the coronal virus epidemic and continue to encourage committed childbearing, support for families raising children and improving their quality of life will remain, to my knowledge, the government's goal. Home creation, its renovation, and various family support instruments still apply, as well as support for individual family members, let us think about restoring the 13th month pension of the elderly. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I have one question: will the government continue this series of measures in 22? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Harrach. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary.
u2021-06-14-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, As Congressman said, the government's policy focuses on supporting families, and we include young people with children and older people, pensioners, in addition to families with children. For this reason, the government is constantly expanding the scope of support that will help young people to learn, start a family, build a home, learn a language and find their place. We also appreciate the lifelong work of the elderly. In 2010, we concluded an agreement with the pensioners to maintain the purchasing value of pensions while there is a national government in Hungary. Over the past few years, we have proved that we have kept our word, because we have not only maintained the purchasing value of pensions, but we have also been able to increase them by 10 percent in recent years. In addition, pensioners also received HUF 220 billion in extra payments in the form of a pension premium, Elisabeth's voucher and a voucher. In addition, the government's aim is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. To this end, we have increased the amount of money that can be spent on childbearing and child rearing; we have introduced the family action plan and increased the number of cradle seats. But I can tell you that from 1 July, we will increase the amount of the baby care fee from the previous 70 percent to 100 percent of gross salary, according to a previous Parliament decision. In 2021 Hungary's largest home creation programme was launched, which includes VAT reductions, VAT refunds and tax exemptions. Families can also be helped to renovate their existing homes and create multigenerational homes. [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The work started will continue in 2022, as next year's budget will provide an increasing number of opportunities for more and more families: next year, the budget will increase nearly three times the amount of support for Hungarian families compared to 2010; as of 1 January 2022, we will grant full relief to young people under the age of 25; we will continue to rebuild the 13th month pension next year, and the elderly will receive an additional two weeks' benefit in 2022. We are also helping the single-parent families, as we are now raising the upper limit of the advance alimony to HUF 50 220 for 30 percent of the minimum wage, and we will also double the amount of orphanage from 1 January onwards. Families with children will receive their personal income tax paid in 2021 next year, due to the difficult period caused by the coronal virus epidemic. This measure affects more than 1.1 million families and represents the return of approximately HUF 530-580 billion in taxes. This proves that the government is also helping Hungarian people and Hungarian families during the period of the coronal virus epidemic and the rebooting. In addition, we will, of course, continue the home creation programme in 2022, as the amount of support for children's meals increases, as the civil government believes that family support will never be taken away, but that we will always expand it compared to our options. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, It can therefore be said that until before 2010, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments cut family support, ended the home creation programme and abandoned the Hungarian families, we constantly increase the support of families. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and the amount to be spent on home creation, and Hungarian families can count on us in 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Péter Harrach to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-06-14-83	Dear Secretary of State, My question was what concrete measures would help in 2020 the government of the families, what the budget contains. In his reply, he clearly indicated the changes that we were curious about, and, of course, I accept that answer. I would add that it is not enough for a government to spend up to 5% of GDP on family support, it is important to give this support in detail targeted and well targeted, and families in different situations get what they need most. That's what I felt from your answer, so not only do I accept it, but thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-84	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Harrach. Dear Parliament, We will move on to our next item on the agenda, with immediate questions. Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to reply. I ask Mr Szilágyi to accept the person who is responding or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer in person.
u2021-06-14-85	Thank you, Mr. President. We wait for the recipient with the question.
u2021-06-14-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Szilágyi. Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Lifes or interests? It's an address. At the request of the Minister and because of his absence, he asked Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. I ask Mr. Lajos Rig, whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-06-14-87	I'll take it.
u2021-06-14-88	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Rig.
u2021-06-14-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, several press reported that some health authorities had conducted a study and that it could have been placed on the table of either the government or the EMMI. In this prepared study, several hospital departments, changing functions and capacity reduction were discussed. At the press conference, the Prime Minister rebutted these news and said that in his environment he noticed that hospital reform or health reform were only bad for the people. However, there is also an Excel table in front of the National Hospital Directorate-General, which contains formally the institutions or departments to be abolished that this study talks about. Among other things, this Excel table deals with the integration of the Tapolca hospital with the papal hospital, and the 25-bed children's and newborns' classes and gastroenterology and children's lung rehab beds would cease to exist in the lips hospital. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, you agree with Prime Minister's statement that these will not be done and that these hospital reforms have always been bad for people. Or do these news have a basis for reality? The other part of the question is: can the National Hospital Directorate-General decide, in its own competence, on the transfer of functions and on termination? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-14-90	Thank you, Congressman Rig. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-06-14-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Even in this forum, I would like to say that the government is not preparing for any reform of any kind, and the government has never discussed such an Excel table, nor has it asked for a restructuring plan, nor has it asked for anything, nor has it discussed. There's no such material in the EMMI, so there's no plan, no rumours, no reality, nothing like this is going to happen. What will happen, however, is to provide additional resources for hospitals, health care. In the next year's budget, if you support it, we can give 768 billion more together, if you do not support it, Fidesz-KDNP will be able to give this much more to health care in the next year; thus, the total amount of resources that can be spent on health will increase by 141 percent during our governance. So we are not preparing for any kind of reform, but if you may have listened to Ferenc Gyurcsány or Imre László's revelations in the last week, you may have seen that if you were in power with you, which Andrea Varga-Damm explained in detail his opinion, it would have very serious consequences for the Hungarian hospitals, because Imre László said that he said that 45 percent of the Hungarian hospitals should be closed. He did not want to talk about transfers from classes, but simply said that 45 percent of Hungarian hospitals should be closed. Ferenc Gyurcsány and I were all here in Parliament last week, Members, when we heard him, he said that he had a very good progressive and strategic reform, which was swept away by a referendum in Hungary, but he is still proud of it. So while we are preparing with additional resources, and there is no reform that has been mentioned in the last few days, as you have referred to, honourable Member, and I repeat that, on the other hand, you are not preparing for reform, but for austerity: people would be asked to pay a visitation fee for health care, hospital allowances, and hospitals, after being effectively protected by the Hungarians in the coronal virus epidemic, would be closed at 45 percent. The very great danger is on your side, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a rejoinder, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, Mr. Secretary, the question has not been answered. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes!]] However, it is clear that if you do not negotiate it, because the government does not have to negotiate it, there is such a draft on the table of the national hospital director-general, and you will not be the ones to cancel the capacities, but the National Hospital Directorate-General will. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] And one more thing, Mr. Secretary of State, the Prime Minister said that he had noticed that people were badly affected by these hospital reforms and that they were not going to do so. [[16.00]] Will you please tell the Prime Minister to think back to 2012, when you've been ruling? Then there was a hospital reform called the Semmelweis plan. Still, people got hurt, and the people whose interests I've just spoken out to are the ones who got hurt. In Tapolca, active medical care was discontinued, and it was very difficult for them to return 15 beds from the 50 medical beds they took. That's what they're about to do right now, but they're not going to do it themselves, they're going to do it, they're going to do it.
u2021-06-14-94	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also applies to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-06-14-95	Thank you very much. Looks like you've been consulting too much with left-wing, Gyurcsányist politicians who don't work out every part of the truth. So not only will the EMMI not only do it, not only will the government not do it, neither will the National Hospital Directorate-General, nor will the county hospital directors, nor will the city hospital directors do it, honourable Member. Don't start from what happens to your new ally, saying something, and then something else happens on the detour. Hundreds of tricks are now on your side, not only on Ferenc Gyurcsány's side, but on your side. We're not going to do anything like this, and I'm going to deny what you've read most definitely, nothing will happen later, you can be sure of that. Of course, you had a certain attitude to introduce a visitation fee, and your politician, Imre László, said that I would be expecting controversial, noisy patients for two months and then get used to paying. They're going to do the same thing right now. Ferenc Gyurcsány expected that for two months, as he said, they would protest at Kossuth Square for a while and then get used to it. That's it for you. People get cut down, and then they get used to it. That's not what we want. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That's why next year we provide health resources [[The President shall again indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] 368 billion forints more. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: 268 billion more! Two hundred and sixty-eight!]]
u2021-06-14-96	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Ms Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Partnere is the Government in preserving the country's values? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-06-14-97	Yeah, I'll take it. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-98	You have the floor, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai.
u2021-06-14-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Municipal representatives of the town of Tata have come up with an idea whose cultural and tourist benefits can enrich the whole country. Local politicians have proposed that Tata's historic city centre become part of the world heritage. We know that the historical town core of Tata is one of Europe's unique values, the castle of Tata, the castle of Esterházy, the Cifra mill, the stone-carving house and many other unique monuments stand next to each other. It is not only our duty, but also our duty, to preserve these for posterity. Although the start of Tata's heart program has improved the chances of preserving the city's built heritage, we cannot be satisfied. The tender missed a number of priceless properties that form part of the city core. At the same time, it can offer a new chance to preserve the monument if the historical core of the city becomes part of the world heritage. On the one hand, this is also a natural commitment for the city, but on the other hand, it is also a legal guarantee that no unjustified change to historical monuments can be made. Tata's historic city core will compete with the monuments on the list of castles at any time. In view of the above, I would like to ask the honourable Minister how they intend to help the municipality of Tata to prepare a high-quality, well-established preparatory material. My second question is: how do you support the city's initiative at UNESCO to make the Tata city centre part of the world heritage? I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2021-06-14-100	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2021-06-14-101	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In general, the government follows the principle and believes it is right that if a municipality believes that something is good for the community living there, for that city, then we also support it. So if the Tata municipality, the elected MP, supports becoming part of the world heritage, the government will grant all the conditions for this. Moreover, everything that the Congresswoman has said about Tata fully supports the government decisions that I recently handed over the renovated Esterházy castle. There is also a wing of the castle that needs to be renovated, but the main building is fully completed and awaits visitors in its original glory. The state also participated in the purchase of the Cifra mill in order to avoid any property that does not ensure proper renovation of the monuments, and in recent years we have spent considerable resources on the reconstruction of the downtown Tata. Tata really is a beautiful city, downtown is a real jewelry box. We are therefore fully prepared to cooperate, both with the city's leadership and with the elected Member of Parliament, in order to achieve the objectives set by the city. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-102	Thank you very much, Minister Gergely Gulyás. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2021-06-14-103	Thank you very much, Minister. I am extremely pleased that the government is interested in protecting the cultural values built, because it is quite obvious, as I indicated, that unfortunately, the rehabilitation of the city centre has not yet produced the expected results. But I agree with you, indeed, the renovation of the Esterházy Castle is truly beautiful, it can be viewed for 2,500 HUF. I have to say that this weekend's concert was actually absolutely uplifting for everyone. I'm definitely hopeful. The maintenance of the city's monuments has so far burdened the municipality. It is clear that this is an increasingly difficult task, and that is why it is important that these investments, which has now been mentioned by the Minister, can in any case be made. So I would definitely underline the sentence that, indeed, Tata is a jewelry box for me, and indeed, if Tata's historic core becomes part of the world's heritage, then this could be a matter that is important to all of us. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Minister.
u2021-06-14-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Our speeches have shown that there is agreement between us on the development of Tata. Probably not, but I strongly believe that the guarantee of Tata's development is that the country still has a civilian government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-106	Thank you very much, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what about Lake Fertő? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, even though there is an image disorder in the case of a lake, I am beginning to think that what is happening in the area of Lake Fertő in recent months, that is, that Eastern Europe is the third largest lake on the UNESCO World Heritage List. On the shore of Lake Fertő, the Orbán government started to invest in natural and cultural values, as usual, not taking into account at all. This investment means a luxurious hotel and the establishment of a port suitable for the reception of hundreds of ships, thereby completely changing the view of the lake shore and the wildlife there. Everyone who lives and moves protests against the investment. 30 NGOs from 20 countries, the UNESCO World Heritage Centre, have been consulted in the interest of protecting Lake Fertő. The international professional NGO ICOMOS, which plays a key role in the world's conservation of monuments, also requested the immediate closure of the project in a letter, and UNESCO itself threatened that if the investment was not suspended immediately, the status of world heritage could be lost by Lake Fertő and its surroundings. Several Hungarian conservation groups protested, joined together with the name of the Great Lakes Coalition, and initiated a joint action. The cost of the investment is now estimated at HUF 32 billion, but as we know you, this will easily be 100 billion in a few months. That, no, of course, the investor is Lőrinc Mészáros, and if we had to guess who, and how, who, from the operation of the facilities, rents and rents will increase their own profits in the resulting investments, then I don't have to tell you who I'd bet on, because, you know, gentlemen won't bet for sure. [[16.10]] The most recent and annoying thing is that the pile houses that were here have been bulldozed, so I would ask the honourable Minister why this step was so urgent in the investment that they dared to do so without a final decision. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from DK and Dialogue.]]
u2021-06-14-108	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2021-06-14-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With the best of spirits on your question, I can tell you that you are fundamentally mistaken. The fact is that the development that you present here as a sudden investment, a hasty, unprepared investment, is actually a planned development that has lasted for many years, the complex development of the Lake Fertő water farm and the implementation of a planned eco-centre. This is for the development of bathing culture in a given area, and the natural life and natural values of the area are made available here. We are talking about the development that is worthy of the world heritage title since 2001. I would also like to point out that in 2017, so four years ago, a uniform design, preliminary study documentation was prepared, and then the development documentation was completed, as well as an evaluation of the planned investments in terms of nature conservation and landscape protection, in 2018, and thus three years ago, the entire development and investment was granted environmental protection authorisation. In 2018, under the Hungarian-Austrian Water Convention, the Hungarian-Austrian Water Commission also contributed to the development investment. The developer has consulted the institution of the UN World Heritage Committee ICOMOS, a permanent cultural heritage conservation expert, and the Hungarian National Committee. Taking into account their proposals, the World Heritage Complex Impact Assessment documentation was also prepared in 2019 for the investment in Fertő Part. More thoroughly, in the past, there is hardly any more well-prepared investment in Hungary, which, by the way, has the maximum support of the local people. I just told you, it's true here, too, that you have the express support of the municipality. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-110	Thank you very much, Minister. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-111	Today's news is that, in practice, the Commission has launched a conciliation procedure in this case, which can be seen as a prelude to the EU infringement procedure, so there is a problem here, and a number of bodies, starting from ICOMOS, through UNESCO, are constantly indicating that this is a problem and that this cannot be tolerated. But I'll tell you another one, which was my main question. How is it possible for these pile houses to be bullied by the authorities, in addition, to pay the respective owners the cost they cost, while, for millions of dollars, they legally bought the rent while authorized to build the pile houses, while the State disputes that they are their real estate, but they levy a real estate tax on them and have to pay a property tax on them to the owners? How can that be the 21st? In the century, that people's property was so, day after day, not waiting for the judicial decision that was in progress, so even if it wasn't final, these houses were simply bullied, and the owners were obliged to pay for their costs? [[A round of applause from DK and Dialogue.]]
u2021-06-14-112	Dear Parliament, You have the opportunity to respond back to Secretary Gergely Gulyás.
u2021-06-14-113	Thank you for the floor. If you are interested in the legal part, Mr President, I would like to point out that three such piles have been legally removed on the basis of the termination of the 1990 contract, I believe they have Austrian owners. Homeowners have taken the case on a court-ordered basis in order to suspend the breakdown, but they have not even filed an appropriate action. Indeed, legally, these pile houses are not considered real estate. If a real estate tax has been paid, another debate that is unnecessary to still be mixed up here is legally absolutely clear. What is more interesting, however, is that, in fact, if you have been to Lake Fertő and look at the coast, you will see that developments have been made in Austrian territory, and not in Hungarian territory, and, of course, the Austrian interest is that this development should not be made. It would be very good if everyone in the Hungarian Parliament, even though we do not agree on a lot of things, represented Hungarian interests and not Austrians. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-114	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, has arrived precisely, he wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the government planning? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member, he accepts the person who is responding, or he asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-06-14-115	Dear House, I'd like the answer in person.
u2021-06-14-116	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When will the investment in Lake Fertő be stopped? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-06-14-117	I accept, thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-14-118	You have the floor, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2021-06-14-119	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I'll continue with the question. Last week, I was preparing for the National Park of Lake Fertő to see this investment, and I was just reading the post of Minister Judit Varga on the political side that our heart is to protect the environment! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. That really intrigued my interest in the practice. I went to the lake, of course it is closed, there is no way to go down to the lake, and such huge trucks every two or three minutes: zzz went to the beach, I suppose they took the concrete to cement the lake there, because you want not more lakes, but more concrete on the shores of every lake. Minister, I think you know, or, if you don't know, I say that Lake Fertő is part of the Fertő-Hanság National Park, also belongs to the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage Site, there are Natura 2000 sites there, and it is also subject to the Ramsari International Convention. I don't know, I'll be very curious, Minister. You know what the purpose of creating a national park is. It is by no means the task of developing tourism, and certainly not of a national park, to have as much traffic as possible and to destroy natural values. National parks are created by countries because certain natural values need to be protected and their habitat protected. But if you cement me and make such a huge investment in a national park, then those natural values, because habitats cannot be protected, will not remain. Of course, the investor is Sopron-Fertő Tourism Developer Nonprofit Zrt., state investment is a shame and a shame that environmental protection and nature protection are so important to you, and the contractor is Lőrinc Mészáros's empire company. I'd like to ask you to stop the investment.
u2021-06-14-120	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Gergely Gulyás.
u2021-06-14-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There is a fundamental difference in approach: the fact that the development of national parks would not serve tourism and people, we think differently. National park developments are also good because then more people visit our national parks. The difference in perspective is that man is part of the ecosystem, so man should not be seen as an extraordinary threat to the ecosystem, but as a part of it. Once again, I would like to remind you of what I have already done to your colleague, that the investigation dossier for 2017 is available, that Natura 2000 documentation is available, that, after consulting the Hungarian National Committee for ICOMOS, the impact assessment documentation has been amended separately, and I am particularly pleased that the Member mentioned the Ramsari Convention, because according to the opinion of the Secretariat of the Convention, there is no likely ecological change in the area due to development. So the consultation with them also took place. [[16.20]] After that, I can only say that there will be a development where the green surface will be quite outstanding, above 70 percent, and we will also develop a 17-acre ecopark in connection with the Ecocentrum, which will present the wildlife of the infecting reeds on a educational path. I think this is in the interest of the development area, and it is not in the interest of the Austrians alone, because so far, who wanted to enjoy the lake in a high-quality environment at Lake Fertő, had to go to the Austrian side; if this development is implemented, then it can also be on the Hungarian side. Although I do not assume that DK would cause them any pain if the situation so far persisted, but I do believe that it is about the congresswoman, so please appreciate that. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-122	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congresswoman.
u2021-06-14-123	Minister, I don't appreciate that at all. First of all, let us clarify what tourism and tourism must be in bulk and at what level! You may not have heard of ecotourism. Ecotourism is a gentle tourism, and surely not many star hotels must be built on the shore of a lake [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Detonate Clark Adam Square instead!]] I'm not sure you have to put golf courses there, and I'm not sure you have to plant artificial grass. I was there, I saw the investment plan. Everything can be said but that it is an environmental and nature-friendly investment. This investment is in the interest of the Fidesz entrepreneurs, its subcontractors, Lőrinc Mészáros, not the interests of the Hungarian people and the future generation. How do you imagine the future? By the way, this investment represents your declaration of environmental protection. It is no coincidence that there is no Ministry of Environment in Hungary today, it is no accident that you are the environment and nature conservation [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Clark Adam Square, beekeeper!]] The system of public authorities was dismantled and turned into a nodding John.
u2021-06-14-124	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2021-06-14-125	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to begin by congratulating you on your environmental commitment during the period of the beekeepers in Budapest and the blasting of Clark Ádám tér. On the other hand, I would also like to ask you once again, and all those for whom the issue of Lake Fertő is not only a political issue, but also really interested in the region, so that the various settlements of Lake Fertő can be visited on the Austrian and Hungarian sides, as you know. And then, if they don't come to the same conclusion that the government has drawn, then it's hard for us to talk to each other, because then the concept we're thinking about is quite different. On one side, the beach was developed long ago, the same investments were made long ago, Austria is now the beneficiary of this project, and in order for the Hungarian side to benefit from it, it is essential to complete the investment that is now needed. That's why this is going to happen. I would add that the first-stage hotel is not included, and I regret that, by the way, but this is in vain, Mrs Congresswoman, because this is not part of the investment that we are about to make. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-126	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, notary, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member, the notary, to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person. [[Bence of Turdai: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman Bence of Tordai.
u2021-06-14-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Antal Rogán's fellow minister managed to blow up the Internet and the news portals today. One of the offices of the Minister for Propaganda and theft of State Property has published a call in the European Union's public procurement notice, which shows that for the next 35 years, the entire Hungarian motorway network is about 2,000 kilometers into private hands to fatten companies of the same future successful entrepreneur. This concession is based on successful models such as the traficconcession or the casino concession, so when they provide a solid income to fidesz friends. But how much is this revenue? If we look at the budget law, we'll only pay 138 billion for the availability fee by 2022. Only this cost would be nearly 5000 billion for 35 years, plus a service fee, which could be 50 per cent in terms of profit rates so far, and in addition will be the costs of development and renovation. So, overall, this guarantees tens of thousands of billions of dollars in revenue to the selected entrepreneur's company or company empire for the next three and a half decades, according to your intentions. The news is that the winner will be László Szíyj, one of the fourth richest Hungarians, one of Viktor Orbán's favorite oligarchs, who also maintains the Fidesz holiday boat, Lady MRD and hosts Péter Szijjártó among others. Minister, are you really planning to play all the Hungarian roads and tens of thousands of billions of forints into a fidesz oligarch for 35 years?
u2021-06-14-128	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Gergely Gulyás.
u2021-06-14-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In part, Mr President, in his speech, he refuted the allegations, as it is an open public procurement in the EU, and therefore the winner of this can be any European Union company. There is hardly any company in Hungary that could carry out tasks of this magnitude. What is based on error, however, is that it is not that someone will operate the roads, as the national toll collector does today, where the Hungarian budget may receive more than 300 billion forints of income paid by mainly foreign trucks per year; it is that someone will build roads and then receive the operation of this road construction or budget support. The Hungarian State must decide whether we will build these roads, if the Hungarian State will build them from the budget, whether these funds will have to be created or taken on a larger loan, or whether the consort will also take risks and build roads. This will also help to build roads that will strengthen Hungary's role in transit in international transit. I therefore suggest to Mr President that you do not look at this issue from a particular point of view, which is usually the opposition, that one of the Hungarian large entrepreneurs be accused in advance of winning a public procurement, but that the country is worth it, its good investment, built up so many roads without this being a burden or an increase in public debt for the budget in the coming years, built on the right level, and whether their operation will be ensured. We can give a bad example, of course, in the case of the M5 we can give a bad example when their current allies, the then socialist government, have provided huge fixed profits to foreign investors for decades. That is what we want to avoid, but still, if we want road traffic and the road network to develop in the country, we need this display. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-130	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-131	Minister, you are delirious, according to the call for a basic network of 1662 kilometres for existing and certain motorway elements, plus 381 kilometres for additional network planning, renovation, construction, control, operation, maintenance and financing. Thus, existing motorways and associated motorways are part of this. I don't know why we call this public procurement on terms that only fidesz oligarchs that build up motorways at an overpriced price can perform. There is no other company in Hungary that can do this, so they want to play more Paks II. money for the fidesz oligarchs before they fall. In 2022, you will hand over the helm, and we will not pay a penny in the framework of such a concession to your oligarchs.
u2021-06-14-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Minister.
u2021-06-14-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, In contrast to the practice that your allies have conducted, when there were no elections, or only one candidate, there will be more candidates in the 2022 election, and then voters will decide who they want in the government or who they want in the opposition. Obviously, the voter's decision, as it has been so far, will continue to be taken into consideration. As to the idea that a motorway is overpriced or not, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in a concession, which is for many years and even decades, anyone has an opportunity to participate in an EU competition. [[16.30]] This is not even about the fact that building a 30 - mile [30 km] section of the road may not make it worth applying to a German entrepreneur. Everyone can participate, and whoever makes the cheapest and best offer will win. So my respectful request is that proclaiming results in advance may seem excessive, because we do not even know the detailed rules of the label yet, but you can already see that it is a serious development, a development that is worth everyone's participation in, and will win with the best offer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-134	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:, Why does Gergely Christmas keep lying about having a language exam? It's an address. [[It's grumpy.]] Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has given him the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman Mónika Dunai to accept the person of the response, or to ask the Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-06-14-135	I'll take it.
u2021-06-14-136	You have the floor, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2021-06-14-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We all remember the English-language interview of Mayor Gergely Christmas in May at The Economist. It turned out that, since Gergely Christmas does not speak English, she used the help of an interpreter during the conversation, as well as using an interpreter for millions of public money in international press appearances and discussions, and by concealing the embarrassing situation, she signed a confidentiality agreement. The mayor will then begin an unpleasant explanation. First, he claimed that he had passed a secondary language exam in English years earlier. However, it turned out that he had never had a state-renowned language exam; he had a degree in literacy, which, as we know, is not the same, it's not nearly the same as a state-approved language exam. In the last few weeks, Gergely Christmas continued to explain her strangeness and language skills more and more surreal. First he said that his English was hyperpassive, and later he referred to his understanding of the English language, or special slice, and then he began to refer to his childhood dyslexia and talked about the need for him to learn a different language. From what you've said so far, you can see that Gergely Christmas is getting more and more involved in a spiral of lies. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It also raises questions as to how, if he did not have a state-renowned language exam, he could be a teacher's assistant between 2004 and 2008, and between 2008 and 2012 at Corvinus University in Budapest. The doctoral regulations of Corvinus University at the time when Christmas worked for them required a state-recognized language examination obligation to hold a teaching assistant position and to carry out adjutant duties [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] even a second foreign language would have been necessary at the professional and performing level. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you, since you've made contact...
u2021-06-14-138	Thank you.
u2021-06-14-139	... with the Education Office to investigate this [[The president's ringing the bell.]] When the case is expected to come to fruition.
u2021-06-14-140	Thank you very much. And I would remind you, dear Congresswoman, that I must be notified, and you must observe the rule. Dear Mr. Tamás Schanda State Secretary, You have the floor in two minutes.
u2021-06-14-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Christmas Gergely got into a nasty spiral of lies. He doesn't have a state language exam, and he couldn't have been appointed a teaching assistant. The relevant rules in force at Corvinus University in 2004 are quite clear. The requirement to appoint a teaching assistant in the university would have been to have at least one language recognised by the state and proven by a type C language exam. In addition to a second foreign language, the university's regulations required knowledge of the language and lecturer's level. You can see that Ferenc Gyurcsány is schooling Christmas, you could also say that he is a hard spinner; he too, as his master, lies in the morning and at noon and at night: one lie follows another in the spiral of lies. I think it's time for you to give me a credible explanation of what you're wearing instead of regular bullshit. Corvinus University was then a state institution, where teachers received public salaries. Gergely Christmas thus has a primary responsibility to the voters to account for why she lied to them. How could you work without the conditions and competences required to fill the job? After all, we know that all employees, everyone who works, must fulfil the necessary competences. It is outrageous that Gergely Christmas is allowed to do everything while not fulfilling the necessary conditions. I'll pick it up from here. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-142	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A 60-second rejoinder is possible for Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2021-06-14-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't get over it, I promise. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, but it is unacceptable not only for me, but for all Budapesters that Budapest has a mayor who, on the one hand, does not comply with the law, thinks that this does not apply to him. Second, he lies; thirdly, he promises grass trees and not grass trees, but weeds, dirt, chaos and garbage in the capital. The people of Budapest don't want any more of this. Thank you very much, I have accepted your answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have the opportunity to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2021-06-14-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Education Office shall examine this matter under official control. The official procedure was initiated on 7 June and Corvinus shall send the relevant documents to the Office by 22 June. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me also to draw attention to the fact that Gergely Christmas is constantly lying, deceiving and misleading Hungarian people and not only in relation to her language exam. In 20 years, three universities and two PhDs were able to complete only one of five higher education courses started. As mayor, he announced a green Budapest, and yet he constantly paints new and new designated bicycle lanes, which is why the traffic is growing and perpetuating, but it also exacerbates the congestion by making late and expensive investments in Budapest. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-14-146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "If this continues, the security of the population is in danger." Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Károly Kontra was entitled to reply. I ask Congressman Dudás to accept the person of the response, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-06-14-147	I accept, Mr. President.
u2021-06-14-148	You have the floor, Congressman Róbert Hondas.
u2021-06-14-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, you promised to clean up in two weeks. I would like to say that both I and my fellow parties, but a lot of us think that all our respect belongs to law enforcement workers, because the effectiveness of their work contributes greatly to our security and security. 11 years passed; 11 years of two-thirds government, of which the last year was an extraordinary legal order, so they actually did what they wanted; but instead of two weeks of order, they achieved a chaos, not necessarily in the country, not just in the country, but also within the law enforcement agencies. The fact that it would be a mass abandonment would be a mass demise, and last Monday you, Mr Secretary of State, denied it. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] On Friday, however, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán acknowledged in his morning radio interview that they would like to leave this course in the field of health and law enforcement. Some say 50 percent, some say 70 percent. Based on any number, it's huge. [[16.40]] I think that in any sector, we have to deal with it, because it is our duty. This sector, which does not merely mean that we have to deal with it, but we really have to do everything we can to ensure that law enforcement workers think of police officers, law enforcement workers, workers in the prison, workers in disaster management and defence workers, can perform the service in a sufficient number of appropriate conditions, because it is in their interest, it is in our interest, it is in the interests of the whole country, so they can ensure safety and security. I ask the Secretary of State for his answer on what they intend to do to preserve the country's security. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-14-150	Thank you very much. I ask Mr. Károly Kontra to respond.
u2021-06-14-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject your claim that there is chaos in the country or even in law enforcement. In 2010, we promised to create order in the country, restore security. As a result, I can say that the number of crimes that have become known has decreased to a third of the last ten years, not a third, but a third, from 428,000 to less than 150,000 in Hungary. In Hungary there is order, we have strengthened the police, we have made strict laws, we have reduced uniformed crime. Honourable Congressman, I'm glad to hear you've changed your mind about the police. In the spring of 2011, the police were still under attack in Gyöngyöspata, and they were playing the Hungarian Guard, and now he is speaking in a hypocritical, Pharisee way in the interests of the police. Honourable Congressman, One budget has not been voted, which would have provided the necessary resources for the operation of the police. As for the so-called wave of disarmament, these are unreal. The opinion poll you refer to, or the survey, cannot be considered credible or representative. Otherwise, from tomorrow, the ban on law enforcement professional personnel has not allowed them to decide whether or not to leave the force will be lifted. I would like to thank the staff of the Hungarian police and the professional staff managed by the Ministry of the Interior, as they have performed a threefold task: they have ensured security in the territory of the country, i.e. in the area of Homeland Security, they have protected the southern border and have also actively taken part in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic. They showed that the country can count on the Hungarian police, count on the Hungarian police, count on the Hungarian professional stocks. I'm asking you to acknowledge that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2021-06-14-152	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. For a one-minute rejoinder, I'll give the floor to the congressman.
u2021-06-14-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We acknowledge and repeat that we recognise the efforts of law enforcement workers and that we are doing everything we can to ensure that it works properly. However, it is very sad, Mr Secretary of State, that you are not even speaking about the solution by accident; you say that we have not voted in favour of any amending budget for the development of law enforcement bodies. If you hide it by otherwise making a salad law unvoted, then don't be surprised, on the one hand. On the other hand, there are two thirds of them, so don't point your finger at the opposition. They should be thinking about the solution, not pointing it back, pointing it at the other. But let me tell you one more thing: those law enforcement workers who, in some way or another, were discharged, because they found those tricks, ways and ways, in many cases, were considered unworthy, and so were discharged, thus preventing them from performing public tasks in terms of the future, or from performing public tasks. Dear Secretary of State, They're not the unworthy ones, they're the unworthy ones. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] The people who caused this situation are you. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-06-14-154	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2021-06-14-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Well, it's out of the bag, you're rooting for as many cops as possible to leave the force as many professionals as possible? How does this work to maintain the country's security and order? I would like to say that, at the end of the last week, on Friday, Prime Minister announced that the three-year arms money that soldiers and police officers will receive will be paid, if the performance of the economy allows it, at the beginning of January 2022. So far, we have launched the law enforcement career program in 2015, with an average salary increase of 50 per cent for professional staff until 2019, we have introduced performance benefits, which provide HUF 12 billion per year, housing support of HUF 2.8 billion per year, and we have introduced the system of law enforcement health damage care at HSzt. 5 years before the retirement age, with a lump sum of HUF 500 thousand for every law enforcement professional. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] We value law enforcement personnel. We hope that we will also have the opportunity to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-06-14-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. In response to the Minister's absence, Mr Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, the notary, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2021-06-14-157	Yes, I accept, thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-158	You have the floor, Congressman Attila Móring József, notary.
u2021-06-14-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Hungarian society has been through very difficult months, we have had dramatic days, there have been many sick people, and unfortunately many of our countrymen have fallen victim to the Crown Virus. This is why the Fidesz-KDNP government has decided to place the most effective solution against the disease, the vaccination programme, on the broadest possible basis. During the mass vaccination period, there was also a vaccine from the West and the East. In terms of grafting, Hungary is the second in the European Union: the vaccination rate of the Hungarian population is 54.5 per cent, while the EU average is 42 per cent. At the end of the third epidemic, we can expect this summer in vaccine abundance and a sense of gradual release. Jobs, education systems, services have returned to normal. The economy is restarting, our future is redesignable, and the most recent thing is that together we can watch the Hungarian selection of Eb matches live or even on the terrace of a catering establishment. However, we still have work to do. It is still necessary to draw people's attention to the inclusion of vaccines, as there are millions of souls who could still benefit from the protection of the vaccine. Instead of mass vaccination, health care will now switch to emergency vaccination and vaccinations will be started in the 12-15-year-old population. We are happy to say that we also have professional health care and the amount of vaccine available for this. Dear Secretary of State, At the end of the third wave, the number of healed continues to increase, fewer and fewer people will be hospitalized. Soon a pandemic evaluation register will be created, with which the Hungarian protection certificate will rise to the EU level. National consultation to create a stable economy [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] In addition to protecting jobs, strengthening the economy and financial support for families can also be on the agenda. (The president jogs the doorbell.) After more detailed information, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how the protection against the coronal virus is developing, how the health system is switching to the system of emergency vaccination. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-06-14-160	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-06-14-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Hungary has defeated the coronal virus epidemic thanks to vaccines. Hungary has been in such a lucky position for weeks, even for long weeks, that anyone who wishes to receive a vaccine can register easily, then can make an appointment within days and even book a vaccine. There is no other country where you can choose from as many vaccines as Hungary. This has also contributed to the fact that we have defeated the epidemic sooner than other countries, and there are few countries where vaccination can be given so quickly, at any age, now children and young people. The Hungarian left was not supportive of this government. They attacked when we acquired respirators, why Hungary acquires so much. They attacked the fact that we have converted hospital beds in Hungary, as you referred to, honourable Member, that there will be so many hospital beds in hospitals that can care for patients with coronal viruses. They said it would lead to the deaths of many patients, and they called as a key witness a fake paramedic who turned out to have one word of it, not even a true introduction. They attacked the fact that not only four but six vaccines were available in Hungary. To this day, the parliamentary decision proposal, or even two in which two vaccines, Eastern vaccines, were to be banned, has not been withdrawn. [[16.50]] Where possible, they tried to slow down the process and, wherever possible, tried to make the process more difficult. They didn't help anywhere, but rather try to dissuade people, especially with regard to vaccines. However, as you said, in Hungary there are extremely high grafting rates, higher than in Germany, higher than in France, higher than in the USA, although there are several countries with their own vaccine factory, but higher in Hungary. And if we look around Europe, there are many countries where restrictions are still in place. Many countries even have to wear masks in public areas, while Hungary has not been in Hungary for weeks, because we are ahead of the European average and ahead of many European countries for weeks and months on these issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the notary, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-163	Thank you very much. We have both said and it is a good news that many people have taken the vaccine, and we are doing well in Europe and even in the world, but there are many who are still, to say the least, pulling away from this only possible way of protecting themselves. Unfortunately, the left has played a very serious role in this, but I think it is not too late, and at least in this we could create the national minimum that is needed. So I urge those who are not yet registered for vaccination to register and inoculate people between the ages of 12 and 15 and older, because this is the only safe defense against the disease. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-164	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-14-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The plague ended for those who had been vaccinated. In Hungary, vaccination is still available for everyone, and vaccination can take place free of charge and within a few days. It is always possible to register, and we encourage everyone to do so. Indeed, freedom and absolute security can only be achieved when vaccinated, since in Hungary there is only a vaccine that has been tested, which has been approved by the World Health Organisation and can be given to everyone in the framework of the emergency vaccination. Obviously, the number of people who need to be vaccinated every day is much smaller now. People have already received an overwhelming majority of the second vaccination, so that the newer and more registered will only have to give the vaccinations, and this can be done by the emergency vaccination system. We hope that we can also free the summer for young people by allowing everyone over the age of 12 to register and receive vaccination within a few days. This is why Hungary was able to overcome the epidemic by preventing many other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: after 12 years, only secrecy? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra was entitled to reply to his absence. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person who is responding.
u2021-06-14-167	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2021-06-14-168	It says yes. You have the floor, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2021-06-14-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, I would like to begin by saying that Secretary of State Bence Rétvári said to one of my better colleagues that the government did not order any study on the transformation of health care. Well, I would like to suggest to Mr. Secretary of State that this is why I contacted the Ministry of Interior that last year the government ordered a study on how the government should transform health care for HUF 350 million. After this study was completed, I would have asked for it in writing, and it turned out that it had been encrypted for ten years. The Home Secretary could unlock this encryption, but he won't. Fidesz is irresponsible about wanting to transform health care in the middle of the epidemic without involving either the profession or the people involved or the population. I've asked you a number of questions about this because there's such a big adjustment that you're planning. And that is precisely why the profession and the population themselves are upset when such two-and-a-half-page materials are released on the Internet, where we are talking about the fact that patient care, orders, even classes and beds will be eliminated without asking the Hungarian population. However, the Minister himself acknowledged the fact that today in Hungary about 30,000 people die because they do not receive basic health care. It is not the severity of their disease that justifies it, but the lack of access to basic health care. Do you know, gentlemen, how long has this been going on in 12 years since you've been in government? More than 320,000, 340 to 360,000 people. Do you know that? 360,000 people could have saved their lives if they'd dealt with health. Secretary of State, when can we learn about the study ordered for 350 million forints, and what is in the study? What are you hiding that we don't know? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2021-06-14-170	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2021-06-14-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We're not hiding anything. As my colleague Rétvári said in his reply to the first immediate question, the government is not planning any restructuring, no reform, but we are planning to strengthen health care. What are we going to do about it? First of all, we give 768 billion forints more to health care. So we give 768 billion forints more to health care. We plan to build a super-hospital, we started the medical raise, in consultation with the Hungarian Medical Chamber. So it is not true that we do not involve health care in decisions. I myself have been to such a meeting, Madam honourable Member, so you are not telling the truth. As a first step in this cycle, the wages of nurses will be increased by 72 percent, and the wages of doctors will increase by more than double, and as a result, after seventy years, thanks money can finally be paid in Hungary. It is also necessary to increase instrumentality, to repair all the operating rooms, waiting rooms and social spaces. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that since 2010, the value of healthcare expenditure has increased by 141 percent in the budget, i.e. by 141 percent. On the other hand, you took me from the medical register, which is what the visit fee and hospital daily allowance were for, which only a referendum could cancel. A total of 6,000 medical workers were placed on the street when 16,000 infirmary beds were charged in Hungarian hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You know, the saying is true that you should act when you have the chance. You didn't act or did what I told you, and they speak for themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2021-06-14-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't understand, Mr. Secretary, they've classified the material for ten years. They're keeping secrets. They don't dare reveal what's in the material. Secretary of State said that they are planning to strengthen health care. This was so good that, as of March 1st, more than 5,000 health workers left their profession overnight. And I would warn Mr Secretary of State that from tomorrow you can resign, not only law enforcement workers but also health workers. And there are hospitals that have signed the medical status for three months depending on what the government will do in the next period. Did we know to the Secretary and Secretary of State how many more people were going to resign, how many more will leave the field? I think the loss of one person is a lot, let alone one more government lets that happen. Mr. Secretary, I ask you again: what are you hiding in the 350 million HUF study? What is it that politics, the profession, and the Hungarian population do not know? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-06-14-174	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-14-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm sorry that your words say that you want a lot of people out of health care. I'm sorry. You do not represent the interests of patients, either now or in government, but you want to hope for specific political interests and political benefits. I trust that this will not happen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have done nothing in the fight against the epidemic, but you have not provided any help here, in public or in the European Parliament. In Brussels, my colleague has constantly tried to discredit Hungary with false news about the Kamuvideo case, and it can be said that you did not help the Hungarian people during the epidemic, but questioned the results of the work of health workers and their ability to stop and break the epidemic. It is regrettable that you prefer political benefits over the interests of the people and the health of the people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2021-06-14-176	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, We will move on to our next item on the agenda. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What will be the fate of Karolina Hospital? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2021-06-14-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Last week, I have spoken in this matter between the walls of the same House, but at that time the tens of thousands of people on whose behalf I have spoken to answer my questions at all, and István Nagy, Member of Parliament, did not raise his voice in this matter at all. Believe me, with that attitude, I was not humiliated or hurt, but the tens of thousands of people who would have expected an answer. But let's try, maybe they'll be able to say something today. On the basis of the documents of the National Hospital Directorate-General, this will in fact, in fact, currently be a condition for Karolina Hospital in Mosonmagyaróvár, which puts 90,000 people at risk of health safety. Moreover, the reality of the draft has not been contradicted by you, and the fact is that obstetric gynecology or even the children's class who live in the city for us is indispensable, absolutely absurd if it is removed; let us think that to date, seven hundred children were born annually in Mosonmagyaróvár. Little mothers are still in a state of uncertainty, where they are being transferred to Győr and to Sopron, which, let's say, in the case of Sopron, means more than 200 kilometers back and forth. But they also want to eliminate gastroenterology and surgery, which is also unacceptable. Today we are saying that no one in Mosonmagyaróvár should have an accident after 20 hours, because they are simply being directed to Győr, which is, let's face it, when the problem is big, very long distance. And before they finally turn against the interests of the people in the area, let's look at some numbers. This is not the 33,000 city you see from Budapest. Unofficially, there are 45-50 thousand people living in this city, and then Jánossomorja, Hegyeshalom, Szigetköz and the area, which also means an extra load, not to mention the M1 motorway. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And a lot of commuters. The hospital in the area is important to me. How do you feel about that, Mr. Secretary? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-14-178	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is a minimum that a Member of Parliament should watch at least one news report per week and be informed of the most important events of the week, because then you would know precisely, honourable Member, that at all levels what you have said here in the last few minutes has been refuted at the highest level. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] The Prime Minister also said that these are not part of any government proposal [[Hungarian Zoltán: It still doesn't work!]] the government has not asked, has not discussed, such measures will not happen, no reform of any kind or any kind of transformation will not happen, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Magyar: Not now!]] This was said once or twice or three times last week, it was written in various press responses once or twice or three times, and then you do not disturb yourself, come in as if you did not watch the news, listen not to the radio, read not a single piece of news on the Internet, but forget this part of reality true to your new master, Ferenc Gyurcsány. However, you forgot to hear from the news, honourable Member, what your own ally, Imre László, said that 45% of Hungarian hospitals should be closed. You forgot to ask here, honourable Member, whether Imre László and Ferenc Gyurcsány would also shut down the hospital for which you or your fellow Members are speaking. Because we will give a surplus to hospitals, next year in the budget that you do not support, 768 billion HUF more in health care, while Ferenc Gyurcsány said last week that the reform in which he introduced a visitation fee was good, and Imre László said that almost every second hospital should be closed. After that, honourable Member, don't fear hospitals in Mosonmagyaróvár or anywhere else in the country, but from the left whose chariot you are pushing, from the left whose policy, visit fee and hospital closure they have already closed hospitals you had enough to enter Jobbik to end the Gyurcsány era for good, then two cycles have passed, and now you are working for another Gyurcsány era. This is the most dangerous thing for the hospital in Mosonmagyaróvár, what you do is to support the left, the left that closed hospitals, because the left in Hungary closed hospitals [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And the Fidesz-KDNP is building a hospital that's the difference between you and us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-180	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. What is the reason why they do not respond to data requests in the public interest? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2021-06-14-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We have said this many times, but I think that it is never enough to thank the entire Hungarian health care community for their sacrifices during the period of the coronal virus epidemic. They did this despite the fact that the government often did not make their situation easier to think about, initially did not provide them with enough protective equipment; here was the law on health status, and it was also adapted to make life difficult for health workers, resulting in more than five thousand leaving the field. Then, with another amendment, they actually made it possible to observe them, and they were also subject to a notice and exit ban. The government was not responsible for the citizens either, since the information provided by the government was often incomplete, the statements made at the beginning of the day often contradicted the end-of-day measures, and, finally, the Constitutional Court had to say that it does not go without replying to the Members, despite the procedure in accordance with the basic legislation, without justifying it. The MSZP has also often encountered rejection. We wanted to find out the composition of the medical staff, and the OKF has not responded to us after three months, in violation of all the legislation possible. Then our MEP István Ujhelyi also asked questions, he wanted to know the details of the five national health programmes adopted in 2018 from the government; he was constantly believed, and finally he didn't get an answer, and they refused that they were actually pre-decision papers and that they couldn't be heard. For all these reasons, I ask why they do not respond to public data requests. If, by the way, the health situation is so good, the results are good, then why do you have to hide the details of it? Are there numerous errors in health management and legislation related to the lack of data? I look forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2021-06-14-182	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that if you look at the protection of other countries against the virus epidemic, you can see that by holding every day a press conference on the current evolution of the outbreak in the framework of the operational tribe of Hungary, by operating a separate website for information on the coronal virus, we have set up a separate website for information and registration on vaccines, which makes Hungary one of the most extensive countries providing information. You may have remembered that the operational tribe met at dawn, and then, in the morning, representatives of health professionals or the police told us exactly what the latest information was. We have done this, honourable Member, because we have been in a completely different situation, in both the legal and the ordinary sense of the word, and only if there is confidence between those who control the disease and the citizens, can we fight the epidemic successfully; if that is not the case, the defence cannot be effective. That's why you've been attacking trust during the whole epidemic, like vaccines, with your parliamentary decision to ban Eastern vaccines. That is why the most fundamental basis for building trust was the continuous day-to-day information that everyone could follow through the public media in their home, and that was also available on all platforms on the Internet, because it was one of our important objectives to have all the information at everyone's disposal. With regard to data requests of public interest: I read an article in the left-wing press every day, which, based on just such answers, tries to establish some theories, as well as you, if you look at the columns of newspapers, you can see it, or if you listen, watch the news, you can see that many such requests are coming. There is no doubt that the usual 15-day deadline in the epidemic was precisely because the primary task of a hospital or the National Hospital Directorate-General was to protect against the epidemic, so the 15-day deadline was extended to 45 days, but only for this extraordinary period, while there is an epidemic, precisely because protection is the priority, then information is provided, only a little bit of the hierarchy had to be rearranged; now it was particularly important to deal with the defense, but sooner or later all the data was released. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Obviously, there is a set of data that is already outside the scope of data of general interest, which cannot be disclosed under the law if it is: [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Anyone who makes a mistake will be able to get to know these data through the court. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-184	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question. It's an address. In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman. [[17.10]]
u2021-06-14-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You are probably aware that more and more, worryingly, many people are asking the question of the effectiveness of the Chinese vaccines that you have managed for billions of dollars. There are almost three problems here. One is that to date, Sinopharm has not been approved by the European Medicines Agency. The other problem is that the person who has already received this Chinese product in our home, well, it's not out of the question that after the second vaccination, he's not completely safe. The third, we know that very well, there are countless Western countries where you can't travel or work with the Chinese vaccine. Of course, we think it is very important for as many people as possible to be vaccinated, but it is equally important that these vaccinated people feel safe, knowing that the vaccine they have received will protect their lives. We also know that your Prime Minister said that by the beginning of this summer, about seven million Hungarians will be vaccinated, compared to this, we see that the process has slowed down, and about five and a half million Hungarians have been vaccinated, and now they are trying to capacitate 12-16-year-olds to take the vaccine. We also see that there are plenty of Chinese products left in stock, so it is feared that these Chinese vaccines will give these young people, these adolescents too. Since hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have already received Chinese vaccines, it does not only matter how they can travel to the West with such vaccines or work, but also that they are protected by those who have been vaccinated with the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine. But this story is also embarrassing because it was your MEPs who voted for it without saying a word so that Chinese vaccines could not travel all over Europe. So where are we now? No security, no freedom of travel as a fundamental right of the EU, that's all you have to offer. My questions are: will you take a free antibody test? What happens if protection is not sufficient after two Chinese vaccinations? Chinese vaccinees receive third vaccination with a vaccine that produces a sufficient amount of antibodies [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Or risk the lives of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-06-14-186	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We know for a fact that you have no vision for the future, honourable Member, because you said not so long ago that if Viktor Orbán continues to force the Chinese vaccine, there will be no one million vaccinees in Hungary, let alone six million vaccinees. We are approaching five and a half million, honourable Member, while you have said with the same vehemency, with the same determination that if the Chinese vaccine is to be vaccinated in Hungary, a million people will not be vaccinated and, I say, we are approaching five and a half million. I think we're all lucky you're wrong, maybe even you and your relatives and acquaintances are lucky. The vaccine you're attacking, the Chinese vaccine, is tested by the World Health Organization, World Health Organization of the United Nations, WHO, and said it was effective and said it was safe. You have also tried to create false news that it might not be good for the elderly, but the results of the WHO have also refuted this. The U.S. Medical Chamber has also produced results based on laboratory tests that the Chinese vaccine is effective and effective. But to take one step back, you would have banned the Chinese vaccine. If this had happened, we might still have a good part of the restrictive measures in place, a lot more of our countrymen would have been at risk of coronal virus infection, and we would have lost a lot more of our countrymen if, at the most critical time, the third wave was getting stronger and scarier in Hungary as a result of the British virus mutant, well, we would not have been able to extinguish it with Chinese vaccines. But it is precisely thanks to the six vaccines, the four EU joint procurements and the two vaccines that Hungary has purchased separately, that we have preceded other countries. The government has nothing to hide, honourable Member, so we have made public the information about what may have happened to those who have already received one of the vaccines. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] one dose or another, but you also attacked those numbers. I continue to confirm that all vaccines are safe, and the Hungarian authorities have made this clear, and you know it. [[The president's ringing again.]] that scientific research is being conducted on each vaccine, which will only result in months. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-188	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. When does the government plan to support the other districts? It's an address. To answer this question, the Prime Minister has appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office of Gergely Gulyás, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-189	Thank you very much. On the left, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gergely Christmas... excuse me, Mr President, that is the answer. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Dear Minister, In the issue of the Hungarian Gazette, published on 8 June, in 105, a government decision was taken that six districts in Budapest received support, including the provision of road renewal support. The common point in these districts is that each district has pro-government leadership. This measure fully strengthens the government's policy so far, according to which the pro-government settlements and the pro-government districts are supported, while the opponents are not. This is the way the government takes revenge on people who stop asking for the politics of the current government, this attitude is an attack on the Hungarian people, which is based only on political foundations, and makes a distinction based on who the people who live there sympathize with. Since such discrimination is suffered by the Hungarian people, I would like to ask the following question: why is the government only supporting the government-led districts in a separate government resolution? Why do they ignore people in non-government districts? Why are they making their lives difficult just because they don't have the right leadership for you? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-06-14-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Balázs Orbán. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The Government of Hungary does not decide to grant subsidies on a party policy basis, but in a specific way we see that this is exactly what the Metropolitan Government, led by Gergely Christmas, is doing. It is false to attack the road network development policy, when it was precisely Gergely Christmas who, taking advantage of the emergency situation on 27 May 2020, in the same person as the mayor's special authority, amended the draft on the previously adopted Budapest-based road network until 2023. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's right!]] According to this decision, in an interesting manner, Member, four out of the 23 districts are XVI, XVII, XXI, XXIII. in the years to come, there would be no renewal of a journey with a metropolitan treatment of kilometers. In all four districts, the right gives the majority, that is the difference, honourable Member. While the left is discriminating, the government supports and supports the road renovation program. On the one hand, we have a road construction program in Budapest, which started in 2019, with more than 225 kilometers of road renovation. In the three years we spent a total of HUF 20 billion, and in the 2022 budget there is HUF 5 billion. The government decision you're talking about is to compensate for road renovation programmes taken from right-wing authorities, mayors and people by Gergely Christmas. The hypocrisy of the question is also well demonstrated by the fact that if you do not take into account the independent districts, you will spend more than HUF 24.8 billion of the HUF 24.8 billion available to the capital in the opposition-led districts of the city and 2.8 billion in the pro-government districts. This means that Gergely Karácsony provides more than HUF 1.5 billion per district in opposition and left-wing management municipalities with HUF 400 million in right-wing management. While he had a promise that those who didn't vote for him would be the mayor of the mayor. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] But now it seems that he doesn't really want to be the mayor of Budapest either. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-192	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "What will be done for those who do not have children? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[17.20]] (In the notary seat, Dr. Adam Steinmetz Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2021-06-14-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 2018, Fidesz introduced the housing savings system. It was the country's most popular retail savings system. Then they promised that there would be another, a much better system. We've been waiting for this ever since. There was a national home-building community here, and it didn't turn out to be anything. There was an apartment lottery here, and that didn't work. At present, instead of saving up, people have two options if they want support: get into debt, take out loans, or take out children. Or, of course, there is that if someone rents an apartment from the municipality in the World Heritage Site or in the Buda Castle, and they get it cheaply. But what about those who do not dare to take credit for the uncertainty of the crisis and dare to have children? And since I will not have the opportunity to reply in return, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that we save the time of the voters, so do not bring the CSOK here, because I have told you that you can use it with children and you need credit. Don't bring in the sovereign debt either, because that's up to 5 percent, which, better or worse, is barely following inflation, and it's not close to the 30 percent interest that the house savings gave you. So we want a meaningful answer: what about the hundreds of thousands who dare not take credit or take children, or do not comply with your strict conditions, but would you like to save money, would you like support? What about the promises?
u2021-06-14-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of the state-supported forms of self-care, the housing fund system was indeed abolished in 2018. What's the reason? The reason is that it was a disproportionate budgetary burden for the State and, at the same time, it did not encourage housing and housing expansion. Most of the time, he encouraged people to invest. It was a good form of investment, I had money, and the state added a significant amount. The Fidesz government did not want to finance this further, but introduced a new form of housing support. I don't know why it hurts you to have, yes, privileged families who have children, who have already taken on, even those who have children and who still want children. Yes, the Fidesz government supports them in the first place. You obviously know the various ways of doing this: from the baby shower credit to the new home renovation form, there are many opportunities today for a young family to create a new home and a home of their own. However, the VAT refund also applies to those who do not have children. True, only in the case of housing, but there is still a form of state aid for those who do not have children or have other forms of housing. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-196	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Defence: in what pace does the construction of the Jászapáti National Defence Centre continue? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2021-06-14-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Sport, especially mass and leisure sports, plays a prominent role in Hungary from a pedagogical and health point of view. Sport not only shapes external appearance, but also improves internal biological functions. Daily movement can improve people's well - being. Sport is important not only to have someone to cheer on later in the Olympics or other sporting events, but also to contribute to the development of both physical and mental health. Sports is a social issue and calls for social cooperation. Dear Secretary of State, On May 20, 2021, the area in Jászapáti, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, where a defence sports centre will be built in the near future was introduced. This Jászság city is the first place Jászapáti can participate in the expansion of the infrastructure for defence education. These multi-functional recreationalport facilities with shooting spaces will also be suitable for community programmes, sports shooting and fighting sports, general skill-enhancing professions and theoretical training. The aim is to create permanent, cohesive communities in the sports centre, as well as to offer families the opportunity to share sports and spend their leisure time. Through the complex educational program of the Defence Sports Association, special attention is paid to community building, emphasising healthy lifestyles. The aim of young people is to develop a body culture that strengthens the physical skills that are important for defence as well as to promote lifelong sport. Dear Secretary of State, In relation to what has been said, I respectfully ask how the construction of the Defence Sports Centre in Jászapátin continues. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr István Szilárd Németh State Secretary, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2021-06-14-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In agreement with all that you have said, I would like to stress that the Parliament passed a law, and the government defined the operation of defence sports centres in a regulation and the establishment of a defence sports association, because these sports centres not only have a health, sport and education role, but also have an extremely important role in defence. Protection of the country is a national matter. Everyone has an obligation to be prepared to be able to take part in the defense of the country in the light of our country, the Hungarian nation, in the light of its own abilities, its own dedication, its own commitment, its sacrifice. I would like to thank you with great respect, Congressman, for the work you are doing among the people of Lehel's horn, the Jász, for their ancient virtuosity and the commitment they have shown to our country for centuries, undercover in Hungarian society, in the new sports centre built in Jászapáti. This sports center, as you said, will give room not only to a range of guns, but also to a arena, a training room, and any institution related to the event that may be available to the jasers in Jászapáti's life and in his patriotic contribution. Thank you again, Congressman, for your assistance. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-200	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question. You'll allow it, won't you? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Miklós Kásler, who is competent and competent on the subject, has appointed the Minister of Human Resources. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Summer is here, school is over, and Hungarian families are now thinking about where to spend their free time. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has previously said: "More Balaton, less Adria! And, yes, this is where the Somogy hotels, hosts and municipalities are interested, who expect the lifeline from the successful summer Balaton season. However, the Prime Minister's Government does not take into account that vaccination is voluntary and half of the Hungarian society does not have a protection certificate. Because of the Fidesz government, millions of our countrymen, including many children, cannot be accommodated on Lake Balaton. You can't go to baths, circuses, adventure parks, playhouses, zoos, concerts, practically nowhere. On the Adriatic, you can take a vacation with a negative Covid test. [[17 .30]] If there is no urgent change in the rules, for many people there will be more Adria and less Balaton this year, and for Croatians instead of Hungarian service providers there will be significant revenue. Dear Secretary of State, You restrict Hungarians without a protection certificate, but for foreigners, 288/2021. The government will allow them to go anywhere in our country without restriction if they have tickets to football-Eb and a negative Covid test. I respectfully ask, is that okay? Do they allow Hungarian people with a negative Covid test to take a holiday on Lake Balaton and cheer the Hungarian team live? Yes or no? And if so, will you provide a weekly free Covid test? Let's wait for an honorary answer. Go, Hungarians! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-14-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-06-14-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The epidemic has ended for those who have been vaccinated, and I think that we, as Members of Parliament, should all be our main task, our main goal is to serve the safety of the Hungarian people, and in a period of epidemic, security can be served by as many people as possible inoculating themselves. Now the vaccination takes place within a day or two, so you don't have to wait too long, you don't have to go through a complicated administration, because you can register online and book an appointment online. There is a very large, wide choice, as there is also a choice of vaccines on the Internet. It is no longer all six, but there is a very wide choice of vaccines, and millions of more vaccines will arrive in Hungary through joint EU procurement. So everyone has a chance to get a shot. This is not a complicated and not a risky step, as we have received countless vaccines in our childhood. All who have passed the vaccination have experienced that there is no greater pain or difficulty on the spot, but it is a great security, because the person cannot catch the infection or the epidemic is no longer repeated, so there will be no new mutations, and perhaps sooner or later all mankind will be able to get rid of the danger that life will stop again because of the coronal virus. So I think that the best thing we should do is to encourage as many Hungarians as possible to inject themselves, because the capacities are available for this, and everyone can do so with the ready vaccination. Not in every country around the world. Some still stand in line for vaccination, for what Hungarians can receive without standing in line, within days. Let's not encourage people not to get vaccinated. It is regrettable that the left had such a proposal, which was against vaccinations, even to ban certain types of vaccination, but to encourage people to get vaccinated, and then their whole summer could be much more free and indeed, go, Hungarians! Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-204	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. We are now continuing our work according to our agreed agenda. It's 5:32. Dear Parliament, The debate on the legislative report and the proposal for amendment to the Real Estate Register Act, adopted by the Parliament on 26 May 2021, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/1569/7. Letter from the President of the Republic T/15969/8. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr. Ádám Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T15969/7. Act adopted but not published. The Legislative Committee's report and amendment proposal are set out in Article 78 of the House Rules. By 26 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 7 abstentions. Dear House, On 26 May 2021, the Parliament adopted the bill on the real estate register, which was sent back for consideration by President of the Republic on 4 June 2021. In compliance with the amendment adopted by the Legislative Committee, the President of the Republic will address the problems with the provisions of the Act that enter into force. Article B (1) of the Fundamental Law states that Hungary is an independent democratic rule of law. The principle of legal certainty, which forms part of the rule of law, requires the text of the legislation to contain a meaningful and clear standard that can be recognised by the law enforcement officer. The 2010 CXXX on legislation. Law No. 2 Paragraph 1 of this Article also lays down as a basic requirement that the legislation must have a regulatory content that can be clearly understood by the addressees. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The law adopted did not meet these requirements, since its provisions of entry into force were contradictory, so it was not suitable for the purpose of the legislator. The President of the Republic rightly pointed out that, although Article 92 of the Treaty states that: According to § 1 (1) of the Act, the date of the general entry into force of the Act is 15 June 2021, and the date of entry into force of Article 92 (2). § 2 exceptions, among which you can read paragraphs 91-97. §s as well, and 1 February 2023. Therefore, in the light of all this, Article 92 of the Treaty provides that: § The entry into force of 1 February 2023 is of concern, as it would not allow the entry into force of the provisions not covered by the exceptions on 15 June 2021, i.e. the realization of the original legislative objective. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment adopted by the Legislative Committee will remedy the problem that has arisen, so that the law is set out in Article 92 of the Act. With the exception set out in paragraph 2 of this Article, on the day following its publication, and in paragraphs 1 to 91. § 93-97. § 100-103 Article 105 § 106. § (1) and (2) and Article 106. Paragraph 3 (a) and (b) shall enter into force on 1 February 2023. The bill itself is entirely a legislative reform, since the 1997 CXLI on the current real estate register. In more than two decades since the entry into force of law, the world has changed a lot. There have been significant social and economic changes at global level that create new demands for legislation and electronic administration. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should now also be supported in a manner appropriate to the rule of law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr István György, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-14-207	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Members, Mr Dávid Hey, on behalf of the Legislative Committee, has basically said the most important things, but I would like to reiterate the essence of what has happened. On 26 May 2021, Parliament voted in favour, as has been said, of the Law on Real Estate Records, in which not only the needs of citizens but also the requirements of XXI, through the electronic administration to be introduced in the Real Estate Register. It adopted a law that meets the economic and national requirements of the 20th century, the requirements of traffic based on civil law transactions and the challenges it faces today. In the standard text of the law, President of the Republic found no objection, under Rule 92. However, it is a controversial provision. This is now being settled by the Legislative Committee with its amendment, so it also promotes legal certainty and a clear legislative will with the norm of this proposal. With all due respect, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal before us. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he has not used the 15 minutes time frame available, he has 13.5 minutes for further comments and closing words. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. No one indicated in writing his intention to speak, no one made a two-minute comment. I ask you, there is one of my fellow Members who would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. [[17.40]] I'll ask Mr. Secretary, but I guess I don't have to ask. [[Dr. István György says no.]] Mr Secretary of State has already stated the Government's position as rapporteur. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of Law No I of 2004 on sport and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal follow up in the context of the regulation of the activity of a player. Presentation submitted by Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, György Balla, Fidesz, Erik Bánki, Fidesz and László Salacz, Fidesz, Members T/16366. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport in the context of the regulation of the activity of a player. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 7 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is that, if there is a player in a given visual team sport or a player's agency, its registration should be mandatory, the professional and ethical expectations expected of it should be determined in line with the particular sport. The proposal defines the terms of player activity, player agent and player agency, and it is stipulated that only the person who has announced the continuation of the player agent activity and fulfils the conditions laid down by law may carry on the player agent's activities. With regard to the pursuit of the activity of a player agent, the authority supervising the service is the national sports professional association operating in that sport. As a result of the amendment, the player agent will also be a sports specialist, so the sports association will have the opportunity to conduct a sporting discipline against the player. Ladies and gentlemen, The presentation in visual team sports will provide the professional association with the opportunity to set up playful agencies in order to achieve the key strategic objectives, and will be able to regulate and set up in the framework of a non-profit company. The amount paid by the professional association in the form of a refund from the activity of a player shall be used by the professional association to support the training of replacements and to provide an educational contribution. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr László Salacz that he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors, or that he has already expressed his position together with the Commission's position. [[Dr. László Salacz: I maintain my position...]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On the government's side, I'd like to ask if someone would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2021-06-14-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We all know that sport and particularly the sport economy are one of the most dynamic sectors of the domestic and international economy. This is why we have seen over the past period that we have repeatedly amended the sport law, which we must constantly adapt to the changing expectations and needs of sports organisations, athletes or sports professionals. This is also the case in the case of player sales, since the bill tabled by my fellow Members contains and regulates detailed rules on the operation of an area of sport that has been still unregulated. I would like to stress that in the bill, professional tasks have been highlighted, focusing on and focusing on athletes. And we also know that sports associations are autonomous, non-governmental organisations that are not under state control, so the creation of sports agencies that they may establish is solely the task of the sports professional associations, and it is decided there. In addition, it is important to stress that the establishment of a playful agency is not a mandatory task for the relevant sports associations, but only an option, in which case the relevant rules of the international association should be taken into account and drawn up in such a way. [[Continue in 209/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Parliamentary Diary On this basis, the sports professional association may decide not to establish an agency and it is important to stress that athletes are not obliged to use it or any other player agency, and it is therefore important to stress that the bill does not abolish the right of an athlete to justify or transfer from any other organisation, from one to the other. And it is in the fundamental interest of sports associations to bring talented players to the sports organization where they can best prepare them, where they are in the best hands, or receive the best condition, as this ensures the success, effectiveness and success of the sport, which is essentially determined by the national team. It is in the primary interest of the associations to include the best, most talented players in the sport, as this will ensure the future of the sport. It is also important to stress that the sports association's playful agency, as my fellow Member stressed, can be set up as a non-profit company. This ensures that your activities are essentially professional. As regards the supervisory powers of sports associations, its exercise, the possible imposition of a fine, the application of a ban on occupation is regulated and defined by law, so associations must always act on the basis of legal provisions. As regards the consistency of the bill with the competition law of the European Union, it is important to note that, with the adoption of the bill, the government has a notification obligation for the European Commission under the relevant Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Finally, it is very important to inform my fellow Members that the Government has supported a summary amendment to the Legislative Committee containing technical clarifications. And the aim of the proposal is to protect the interests of athletes and domestic replacements. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-212	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that she has an 11-minute time frame for her further speech and closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now possible to speak to its Members; no one has applied for a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State on behalf of the government, in the debate he wishes once again... [[Dr. Szabó Tünde says no.]] He does not wish to speak, of course, as he has made his point. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr László Salacz, as rapporteur, if he would like to speak. [[Dr. László Salacz says no.]] You do not wish to speak, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the strategic amendment of certain laws to the tourism and catering sector and the discussion of the summarised amendment are coming up. The government referral is T/16220. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16220 amending certain laws for strategic purposes in the tourism and catering sector. A bill with a paper number. [[17.50]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal on the table in this House sets out the framework conditions for a national accommodation certification system that guarantees an internationally uniform standard of service. The mandatory rating to be introduced substantially improves the transparency of the accommodation services sector and becomes measurable and comparable to the performance and quality of accommodation, focusing on the protection of consumers' interests. Like accommodation providers, the bill also involves operators of catering places and tourist attractions in the NTAK system, i.e. the digital data reporting process, in order to gain a more complete picture of the operation of the whole sector, and to develop a more complete picture of the operation of the XXI. Data-driven decision-making conditions for the entire tourism sector in the first century. The aim of the bill is to monitor in the future the revenue and traffic statistics of the main sectors of tourism in a depersonalised statistical database, NTAK, on the basis of the model already successfully introduced at the hotels. The anonymous data thus available in real time will significantly contribute to tourism strategic planning, as we will have a fully comprehensive picture of the sector. This will enable marketing activities to be implemented more efficiently, territorially and in time, to better identify the necessary tourist developments, to assess their impact, and to reduce regional disparities of a tourist nature in the long term. Making use of the potential of the resulting statistical, big data data files in Europe could provide a significant competitive advantage in the re-starting competition for tourists. The information available will enable the development of a machine learning system, a tool that can support the decision-making process based on a large amount of data, making decisions based on real data instead of intuitions. In the summer of 2020, marketing planning was already based on NTAK data. The pre-booking data showed which countries are expected to travel in, and with marketing tools they were further confirmed, which confirmed the correctness of the design at the end of the season. The delegated amendments to the law provide the possibility for the tourism company providing the data to be able to reflect its own NTAK data content, to learn about its own performance in the light of competition averages, which increases competition and digitalisation in the entire tourism sector, i.e. not only helps the state decide, but will also be of particular benefit to tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. Given what has been said, I believe that the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-14-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[On the signal of Csaba Dömötör:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-06-14-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Tourism has become one of the leading sectors of the economy during the pre-epidemic period, which can also be seen from the fact that it gave 13 percent of Hungarian GDP and gave it to no less than 450 thousand Hungarians in some form. Every year before the outbreak, he surpassed the previous ones, one record followed the other. This process has stopped because of the epidemic, but the third wave has been overcome, so everything must now be done to ensure that we do not only catch up with the pre-infection level, but also exceed it. The bill before us serves this purpose. The amendments contained in the proposal can be divided into three main parts. Firstly, it also involves catering venues and tourist attraction operators in the reporting system, so that we can get a full picture of the operation of the whole sector and launch more targeted, more efficient support programmes. Secondly, the bill lays the foundations for a national accommodation certification system that guarantees uniform service standards and is based on well-functioning international practices. Thirdly, the bill creates the possibility for the government to name cities of high tourist importance, which can make decision-making on targeted developments more effective than ever. Before the final vote, allow me to inform you that a total of two amendments received contain basically clarification proposals, which do not substantially modify the text of the law, only facilitate a clearer wording, so it can be noted that the proposals submitted did not change the content of the bill compared to the general debate. I would like to thank everyone who has expressed their views on the bill and, of course, thank the professional organisations who have contributed their work to this proposal. We are discussing a proposal that serves Hungarian tourism well, so you can count on the support of all the Members, regardless of their country of residence. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now possible to speak with representatives, and no one has spoken in writing. There is also no possibility of a two-minute comment, as we are in a time-frame negotiation. I'm asking if anyone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. As rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State has obviously expressed the Government's position, so he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the coordination of defence and security activities and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral T/16221. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/16221 on the coordination of defence and security activities was discussed at the Legislative Committee meeting on 10 June 2021. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. by 27 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The bill before us serves to renew Hungary's defence and security system, providing it with a framework. CHAPTER XXI In view of the security threats posed by the 20th century, whether it is migration processes, terrorism, disasters, epidemics, armed conflicts or cyber attacks, it is clear that a review of our legislative environment, building on the security situation of the last century, is necessary and unprovoked. Today's crises are characterised by a high degree of complexity and extremely rapid escalation, for which it is difficult to respond quickly and appropriately in our often precedent-based legislative framework at sectoral level. We need a regulatory reform that has a complex cross-sectoral approach, promotes coordination of our defence capabilities, adequately enforces the principles of gradualness, necessity and proportionality, ensures transparency and clarity. The first major step in the transformation process was the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. Pending the entry into force of the changes to the Constitution on 1 July 2023, elements of a new approach should be developed. The first of these is the proposal before us, which aims to create a new comprehensive yet flexible regulatory framework for normal legal order crisis management and special legal order regulation. The proposal builds on NATO's newest expectations, so it also has an important aim of increasing national resilience and developing crisis management capabilities. [[18.00]] The innovative nature of the proposal should be highlighted in that it regulates the special legal order, the preparation and mobilisation of the national economy in a different approach from that in force, as well as the harmonised defence activities as a new institution, in which, where justified, it would be possible to apply in peace specific rules and restrictions that have so far been applicable only in a sectoral or special legal order. In our discussions on the proposal to date, it was clear that, despite the many objections, our fellow left-wing Members also considered it necessary to reform. They sense the need to set up regulatory frameworks in today's circumstances that are capable of managing the categories of protection and security in unity. As far as we're concerned, the protection provided mainly by armed bodies is no longer effective enough. In addition, and in cooperation with him, there is a need for a significantly wider security awareness, which also appears in other sectors of the state, as well as in the social and economic systems. The objective of the proposal is clearly to lay the foundations for this new system, which is more complex than before and which is more flexible than before, which is necessary in order to strengthen the security and security of our country. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr István Szilárd Németh State Secretary, Deputy Minister [[István Szilárd Németh says no.]] that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now possible for the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There was no written indication of his intention to speak. I'm asking if someone would like to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. As there was no debate, Mr Secretary of State indicated that he did not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following is the Hungarian contribution to the Balkan military peace-keeping operations under NATO's direction 94/2001. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposal for a decision repealing it. The government referral is H/16219. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Szilárd Németh, Deputy Minister, that he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[István Szilárd Németh says no.]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time-frames on the agenda if you wish to make use of this opportunity. There was no written indication of his intention to speak. I'm asking you, would someone like to live with that? [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State... [[Németh Szilárd István: No, thank you.]] As there was no debate, the Secretary of State indicated that he did not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It's coming in a row... [[For signal:]] Dear Parliament, We hope that we will have a maximum two-minute break because, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Balázs Orbán will arrive in a few minutes. I ask you to understand, and please remain in your seats until then. Thank you for your understanding. [[Break: 18.03-18.04]] Dear Parliament, As I indicated, I asked for your patience only for one minute. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports for the presentation of interim emergency rules and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/16367. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16367 on emergency transitional arrangements. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear House, For a long time, we had to live with many restrictions that made our lives difficult, but thanks to the perseverance of health workers and the disciplined behaviour of the Hungarian people, I trust that we can say good-bye to everything. The Hungarian government has taken such strict measures quickly, in time, with a firm response, as a result of which it is one of the few countries where the spread of the virus has been controlled. This will allow the government to gradually lift more restrictions and slowly return to normal life. Ladies and gentlemen, Government 27/2021 on the announcement of an emergency and the entry into force of emergency measures On 8 February 2021 an emergency has been declared throughout Hungary in order to prevent the consequences of the coronal virus pandemic and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. The bill before us contains transitional provisions which are justified due to the termination of the emergency situation under the regulation and the expiry of the emergency government regulation. The aim of the bill is to ensure a regulatory transition in the context of emergency measures, bearing in mind in particular the need to ensure legal certainty. Legal certainty is one of the most important cornerstones of the rule of law. The implementation of the principle requires that, in matters covered by emergency legislation, the Parliament regulates relations or legal expectations arising in the event of an emergency after the emergency has ended, so that the regulatory transition is clear, clear and predictable, with a view to the principle of protection of trust, and that its change is surrounded by legal guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal includes an extension of the validity of expired documents, which does not require the replacement of expired documents overnight, but ensures a proper transition. Transitional rules on non-compliance shall ensure that infringement procedures initiated on the basis of emergency special incident situations can be carried out in substance. As with the transitional rules for infringements, it is also necessary to lay down transitional rules for administrative penalties. The law provides for the possibility of registering individuals without a farm number, but who are eligible for vaccination, for a vaccine against the coronal virus. Dear House, The epidemic not only tested the health care system, but also the economy felt the restrictions. To this end, a number of measures relating to the relaunch of the economy are included in the proposal before us. The bill also lays down transitional rules on a number of subjects, such as transitional rules on social and child protection, temporary provisions on public burden reduction in relation to the tourism sector, different application of certain cultural funding rules, different application of the provisions of criminal law or transitional rules on construction. Since legal certainty requires the regulatory transition to be predictable, guaranteed by law, I ask this House to support the proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-14-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr Orbán, Deputy Minister Balázs, on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Later!]] Yes, thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. [[18.10]] Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, 0021.
u2021-06-14-221	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani gospodine državni tajniče! T/16367 on emergency transitional arrangements At its meeting on 7 June 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, as a related committee, held a detailed discussion on the draft as a whole and formulated the following. The amendments submitted by its representatives were not taken in line with previous practice and were not taken in accordance with the House Rule 45 of the Decision. Article 5 of the Act provides for an amendment by the Commission which closes a detailed debate. Dear Parliament, We believe it is important that the measures of the government regulations adopted in the event of an emergency rise to a legal level, thus helping to protect the health of citizens and to reduce economic damage. Our Commission has formulated its opinion in the light of the interests of the 13 nationalities in Hungary, and has formulated its intention to amend it in line with the structure of the bill. The second chapter proposed to supplement the emergency transitional rules with a new chapter, namely CLXXIX 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Orders a different application of law. The Act cited is 89. §2 of the Act provides that the body of representatives of the national minority self-government and its general assembly shall hold, as necessary, a number of meetings, as defined in the organisational and operational regulations, but at least four meetings per year. In the event of an emergency delay, instead of four meetings under the general rules, it is appropriate to entrust the bodies with the convening of meetings by requiring a meeting to be held as a legal obligation. The regulation is adapted to the transitional provisions for local authorities, which were originally included in the draft. In accordance with the Government's decision, municipalities can meet as of 15 June. We initiated the 2011 CXCV on public finances on the basis of the rules contained in Chapter 3 amending certain laws. supplementing the amendment to the law. This was initiated in the light of the fact that, within the framework of the economic re-launch action plan, investment in education, health, transport, cultural, leisure and tourism development, church and environmental development will continue under the Investment Fund appropriation in 2022, as well as new investments in education, health, transport, cultural, leisure and recreation, tourism development, ecclesiastical and environmental areas. We consider it necessary for the minority self-government community to receive indirect support from the Fund in accordance with the new rules. The amendment was made in order to address the problems of interpretation that have arisen in recent years. Of course, in the interpretation of our committee, the minority authorities are also an integral part of the municipal subsystem. Dear Secretary of State, The proposals made in the other provisions of the draft law concerning national minority communities are supported by our committee, which I also detailed during the general debate. However, it is particularly important to note that it meets the interests of national authorities to remove the voluntary and reserve military service from conflict of interest rules in relation to representatives and officials of national authorities. The new regulation provides an opportunity for the citizens concerned who are otherwise active members of ethnic communities to appear in public life. In this way, they will be able to take up candidates in the interim elections. We consider the legislative amendment related to the census to be a fundamental regulatory provision, as the data of the census is based on the political representation of our ethnic communities and the level of funding for the functioning and broadening of cultural autonomy. Dear Parliament, On behalf of our Commission, I would like to ask you to support the draft law and the associated summary amendment. I would like to point out that, due to the delay in the emergency situation, it is likely that it may be necessary to provide for transitional arrangements for the provisions of the task-based support for national authorities governed by the Budget Act. In our view, it is essential that society's actors continue to comply with the rules of defence so as to allow the country and the economy to restart as soon as possible. We're calling everyone to take into account the risk of a fourth wave of the virus epidemic and get yourself vaccinated. Of course, we pay tribute to the memory of the victims, and we express our condolences to the relatives, and we express our thanks to all those who have ensured the country's functioning, working in the public sector, and providing public services. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti!
u2021-06-14-222	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I ask you, one of my fellow Members wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak within the given time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, who wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2021-06-14-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! I just need your attention, please. In the general discussion of the bill on the Coronary Virus Accompaniment and Emergency Temporary Rules, we discussed in detail the provisions of the bill and the public justification of the bill. I would just like to confirm that I would like to express my thanks to everyone involved in the protection of the Crown Virus. In Hungary, we managed to overcome the third wave of the epidemic by joining forces. There is a constant decline in the number of active infected and hospitalized. The number of vaccinated people in Europe is also very high, with 5 million 342,000 people today. The success of the Hungarian vaccination programme is recognised by WHO, World Health Organisation. With this in terms of protection and health security, we are ahead of most European countries, and in this context we have been able to start the re-launching of the country. Hungary is among those countries that can return to the normal course of life and rebuild the economy as soon as possible. This is what the current bill would serve or create legal, public-law preconditions for this, which is also the end of the special emergency legislation of the last almost one and a half years. I think that it is worth noting here that the special legal order has fulfilled the expectations attached to it, so that measures to protect life and health have been taken quickly and that economic measures have also been introduced that have contributed to maintaining jobs and creating additional jobs. Unfortunately, in the last year and a half, I believe that there has been a fundamentally unworthy political debate between the walls of this House on the justification, necessity, extent and extent of the emergency. But I think we can now conclude that the facts speak for themselves, and that, in fact, the measures that we have taken in the past year and a half have been taken by Parliament or by the government at the level of government decrees, and that Parliament can now approve them at the legal level. We have planned a long transition period in most cases, in cases that are particularly favourable to citizens, Hungarian people and businesses, and in many cases we would like to make them permanently part of the legal system or provide a transitional period beyond the end of the emergency, so this is a key bill for the re-launch of Hungary. Thank you very much, everyone who has been supportive of this debate, and I would like to ask you to support the bill in the final vote on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[18.20]]
u2021-06-14-224	Thank you very much, Mr Vice Minister, for your speech. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on certain asset management issues and on the amendment of certain laws to strengthen the coherence of the legal system follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/16369. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-14-225	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16369 on certain asset management issues and the amendment of certain laws to strengthen the coherence of the legal system. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 8 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, With the bill on the House's table, it is necessary to establish some new legislation corresponding to the regulatory tasks that have been crystallized during the epidemic. After the outbreak has subsided, Parliament and the Government must establish rules for the continuation of the legal institutions introduced in the last year and a half. The rules introduced in the event of an emergency are regulated at legal level, irrespective of the date of the end of the emergency, in order to ensure that the institutions of law can be applied without disruption in the normal functioning of the legal order. The bill also addresses some of the problems of coherence that have arisen in recent years in the areas of cultural, construction, tax, labour law, transport, public procurement and regulation of self-employed persons and dangerous substances. The bill contains a number of amendments to the standard text on health issues, which include adjustments of a legal order to ensure compliance with EU law, to assist in the application of the law, for deregulation purposes, and for codification and technical purposes. The proposal also makes amendments to higher education and its institutions. Here it is important to mention that universities can make a key contribution to achieving Hungary's 2030 strategic goals and strengthening its competitiveness along the lines of the government-approved higher education strategy. As a result, higher education, which is more open to the needs of the economy and which cooperates more closely and effectively with companies, has a quality and performance principle. In addition to the technical amendments to ensure compliance and coherence in the legal system, the essential elements of the bill are to supplement and clarify previous asset relief provisions for model changes. In the light of the consultations with the relevant actors in higher education, additional asset allocation is necessary for the provision of public tasks to public trust foundations and higher education institutions that perform public tasks. Given what has been said, I believe that the proposal contains provisions to be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Secretary of State says no at a later stage. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now possible to speak to its representatives. I'm asking if anyone wants to live with this. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. As there is no debate, of course, Mr Secretary of State cannot and does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws concerning the management of assets and other provisions on the management of assets and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/15995. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws concerning the management of assets and other provisions on the management of assets in order to ensure the sustainable management of state assets. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table contains several important amendments to the law on asset management. The separate provision of the proposal includes the appointment of a trustee of the NISZ, National Infocommunication Service Provider Privately Operating Share Company for the provision of state-owned centralised IT, telecommunications and electronic communications services in its possession or operation, the operation of a data storage archive system, IT infrastructure services, and property related to a government print management system, while at the same time eliminating the right of trust on movable property at the time of the entry into force of the law. The proposal sets out NISZ Zrt. In relation to movable property which is placed in the management of assets, which is entitled to be classified as waste or non-waste material and disposed of and placed in a waste collection, taking into account the rules for scrapping obsolete or redundant property items. The amendment also exempts a car from the car tax, which is owned by the Hungarian State by the last day of the month in which the right to use the car is granted by MVH Zrt. as a result of a legal succession or a final measure. or MNV Zrt. do not transfer it to another person or organisation. In addition, the proposal includes a number of legislative and legal harmonisation amendments. Given what has been said, I believe that the proposal contains provisions to be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he would like to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-14-229	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to create a sustainable management of public assets, the draft law amending the laws concerning the management of certain assets and other provisions on asset management aims to establish the necessary legislative rules to establish sound, targeted, efficient and cost-effective public asset management and to strengthen it. As a result of the amendment, it is owned by the Hungarian State and the Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. The scope and system of the management of state assets under the exercise of ownership rights will be reformed. By creating sustainable asset management, MNV Zrt. The focus of its asset management tasks is on strategic government asset management, and the bill sets out a system of rules that is not necessary for the performance of public tasks, which is not suitable for small-value, less market-enabled assets. On the basis of the bill, in the future, the assets that will be owned by the State through the acquisition of unintended state assets, typically by forced inheritance, will not be acquired by MNV Zrt. We did not find a better name for the general asset management processes, but for the temporary management and outsourcing of non-strategic assets. they are subject to the exercise of ownership rights. The Commission's proposal to close a detailed debate on the bill sets out the civil non-court proceedings for the sale of assets acquired by the State through succession as a specific judicial enforcement procedure. [[18.30]] Enforcement is ordered by the notary by order, and enforcement is carried out by an independent judicial enforcer, in accordance with the special rules of the law on judicial enforcement laid down in the general and newly installed chapter on the implementation of the claim. The rules in Vht were not applied for the purpose of the procedure, by its nature, while others were substantially excluded in the context of the debtor's legal status and the lack of cash claims on the estate creditors to be recovered. Thank you for the supporting professional work of the committees, which has contributed to clarifying and supplementing the text of the law from a professional point of view. In the light of what has been said, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that Mr T/15995. Please support bill No 1 with the amendments made in the summarised amendment proposal. Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity, my fellow Members, for patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-230	I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his speech. I would like to inform you that 12 minutes and 30 seconds are available for further discussion and closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now possible to speak to its Members if they wish to do so. [[No one's reporting.]] As no one has applied for a speech, the debate is closed. Obviously, there has not been a debate, so I believe that Mr Secretary of State does not wish to speak again on the subject, because he has expressed his position and the Government's position. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Thank you very much, no.]] Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the adoption of certain public housing tasks by charitable organisations and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The Government's referral is T/15986. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed T/15986 on the take-over of certain home-building state tasks by charitable organisations. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table supports the transfer of certain public tasks of the National Asset Management Programme by the MRI Community Housing Fund Nonprofit Limited Liability Company. Following the closure of the National Asset Management Programme, State responsibilities were maintained for two groups, as well as for the protection of the housing of these two groups. One is the participants who bought back their home, 22 800 families, and the other is the range of people who chose the lease contract, 4620 families. The charities involved in the National Asset Management Programme have great experience in the long term mentoring and assisting families in difficulty. According to the proposal, MR Community Housing Fund Nonprofit Kft. The tasks to be performed by the Commission are as follows. The implementation and maintenance of social housing management, the performance of tasks arising from the rental relationships of the property, the provision of social assistance services for tenants participating in the National Asset Management Programme, the execution of the participation arrangements of the National Asset Management Programme, the performance of claims management tasks and the social assistance service provider and mentoring activities for the participants. On the first day of January 2022, on the basis of the draft law, property for housing purposes owned by the Hungarian State and managed by the TLA Asset Management and Management Limited Liability Company may be owned free of charge by the MR Community Housing Fund Nonprofit Kft. on the basis of the existing lease rights, with the transfer of rights and obligations arising from the existing lease rights. The proposal sets out the conditions for free ownership and the Parliament authorises the Government to fix the properties concerned in a public decision. The bill also sets out the detailed rules for the real estate affected by the transfer and rental rights. In order to register the change of ownership, an application must be submitted to the property management authority competent for that residential property by the TLA Asset Manager and Disclaimer Limited Liability Company. Ladies and gentlemen, Given what has been said, I believe that the proposal contains provisions to be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr János Fónagy, as rapporteur, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-14-233	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill on the take-over of certain public home creation tasks by charitable organisations is to mentor the tenants participating in the asset management programme, to manage the outstanding public claims of the participants, and to bring the problems of tenants and in-depth contributors still in difficulty to the organisation system that effectively carries out local needs and problem management, which can also perform social tasks related to the stakeholders. The tasks may be taken over from 1 January 2022 under a public service contract. The MRI Community Housing Fund is Nkft. the tasks to be carried out by the Member States are to carry out, on the one hand, the implementation and maintenance of social housing management, the performance of tasks arising from the rental of real estate and the provision of social assistance for tenants participating in the National Asset Management Programme; on the other hand, the performance of the tasks of the national asset management programme, the management of claims and the provision of social assistance and mentoring services for participants. Following a detailed discussion, the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee is MR Community Housing Fund Nkft. proposes to clarify some of its tasks and to lay down data reconciliation and data management provisions related to the tasks and to clarify the procedural and financial accounting rules for transfers and transfers. The amendment further clarifies that all rights and obligations are transferred to the new landlord, so that the new tenant can also grant a social consideration to the tenant as from 1 January 2022 in respect of previously accumulated debts. Thank you for the supporting professional work of the committees, which contributed to improving the text of the bill. In the light of what has been said, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that Mr T/15986 be adopted. Please support bill No 1 with the amendments made in the summarised amendment proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-234	I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his speech. I would like to inform you that there are 12 minutes and 35 seconds available for further comments and closing words. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate, as the debate is on a time-frame. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-235	Mr President, Dear House, As regards general and second round debates in Parliament, it is customary for various factions and political groups to explain for practical and practical reasons why they can support or not support a bill. I would like to smuggle a trace of a rarer genre in here and explain why our group cannot support the proposal that lies before us, since the bombing of the remainder of the National Asset Manager, the return of homes to customers in favorable circumstances, while at the same time handing over a classic state task to private hands, and then leaning back and calming down, is completely unacceptable. [[18.40]] What is included in this proposal, and what goes out into the charitable sphere, should have my respect or respect, however much, frees the area of housing from all kinds of state guarantees, and we see that what would be a classic task for the state to prevent housing cataclysms, to establish housing security, to reattach part of the social network, the Government of Hungary, perhaps we can say and agree on this, has not been able to do so in 11 years, because this bill would not have come before us now if it had been possible. You see, the job is huge, they put their hands up, they sit back, and they say that the charities will figure it out. The fact is that Hungary's taxpayers, its citizens, are not paying us for this, we are not sitting here with a high salary in Parliament, and we can think relatively comfortably about how to improve the fate of people, we cannot do this because we shift responsibility to the charitable sphere, and we will expect these organisations to solve for us what we are sitting here for. On this very basis, although we can obviously find consensus on some of the details of the proposal, and I must say that there will be a family of asset managers that says that their everyday lives can go on like this, I must nevertheless reject the fact that a classic state task is essentially outsourced. What I see now is that where the motorways couldn't get on the green side right now, we have tried once to put them in a concession and it didn't work, but now they're doing it again, because they can't manage an economic area where it's uncomfortable, where it costs a lot of money, it's being outsourced to the private sector, to charities now, to foreign investors or to foreigners, and where there are tasks, for some reason they're timidly backing down. It is precisely because of these fundamentals that we must say that this proposal will not be eligible in this form, and that the current government of the State and Hungary cannot waive its responsibility to implement not only a social housing and housing programme. We will not give in to this, and I hope that the National Unity Government, which was set up in 2022, will also have a common six-party attitude to this issue: what is the task of the State and where it must offer a helping hand will not back down. I wish you the same courage, even in relation to this proposal, if you wish to review it. Thank you for your attention. [[Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2021-06-14-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask you, one of my fellow Members wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Yes, you would like to reply, Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-14-237	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I wish to reply, because I must say that I find my fellow Member's comments shocking and fundamentally unfair. I say only to refresh the memory of this House and of the public that our asset management programme, which remained a disaster for us in a previous political system in 2010, solved the problems of some 38 thousand families, we have ensured that the vast majority of 38 thousand families can stay in their homes, with all kinds of foreign exchange credit and other obligations, and then buy it back on very favourable terms. The remaining apartments, each and every family, are important compared to the 38 grand number, but basically the management of a significantly smaller number of real estates and homes does not serve charity organisations to escape from responsibility and tasks, but rather future practical measures with thorough practice. The State does not want to get rid of this, as it therefore provides the charitable organisations with specific support, more precisely compensation, within the contractual framework, for which the charitable organisations will have specific tasks in the course of this activity. It is therefore not that the State is essentially exempt, but rather wants to entrust it to an organisation and organisations with more experience than the State in this area, which is fundamentally broader than the State and which have local experience and knowledge. So I am convinced that this procedure is not about the irresponsibleness of the State, but about the establishment and assignment of a practical organisation capable of demonstrating social sensitivity in everyday life for the remaining housing users remaining after the loss of activity of the asset manager. I therefore ask once again that, as far as possible, and if my fellow Member finds something in which he can compromise, then I would ask that you consider supporting this Government proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-06-14-238	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of a cooperative of small children and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Presentation submitted by Members Lajos Kósa, Fidesz, Mónika Dunai, Fidesz, Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP and Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz T/16297. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-239	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16297 amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of a cooperative of small children. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, In Hungary, the protection of families, the support of families and mothers, the assistance of parents caring for and raising their young children are a key and priority. The purpose of this regulation is complex: it provides an opportunity for parents at home with a small child to participate in employment in coordination with the child's education and care, in a free choice, in a flexible manner, with personal involvement, and thus benefit from an economic advantage, as well as social and cultural benefits. A cooperative with small children is characterized by providing flexible employment, income opportunities, in a protected framework. It creates a Community, provides members with the opportunity to keep up-to-date and exploit their existing knowledge and experience and to develop them. It provides members with an interface for information, knowledge, experience, exchange and transfer in relation to the education and care of young children. It is also important to point out that the subject group concerned may, of course, voluntarily decide to enter the cooperative. The details of the financial contribution are also decided by the members, there is no binding rule on this. The cooperative member shall receive a proportional income on the basis of his/her personal contribution and shall be entitled to a contribution allowance during his/her employment. The regulation provides a new opportunity for flexible employment and an opportunity for stakeholders to develop themselves and acquire special knowledge during the training and care of their young children. [[18.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee, as I mentioned, found our bill to be supported by a significant majority of votes, because it contains provisions to be supported and forward-looking for mothers and fathers raising their young children at home. That is why we are proposing that this House adopt it in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-14-240	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mrs Mónika Dunai that she wishes to reiterate her position on behalf of the authors.
u2021-06-14-241	In a very short sentence.
u2021-06-14-242	There you go. You have the floor.
u2021-06-14-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, And that short sentence is the voice of thanks. In recent debates, it has been expressed that this is an important matter that will be supported and that we will probably be able to vote on this law as much as possible at tomorrow's meeting. Thank you, everyone, who has enriched our proposal with forward thoughts and suggestions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-244	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak on behalf of the Government as Deputy Minister. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] Mr Deputy Minister, you indicate that you do not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now possible to speak with its representatives on the relevant time-frames. I'm asking if anyone would like to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. I would like to ask Mrs Congresswoman that she wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Dunai Mónika: No.]] Congresswoman indicates that she has made her point, that there has been no debate, so she does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission submitted by representatives of Mr Péter Harrach, Mr KDNP, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, Mr KDNP, Mr T/16212. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2015 CV on debt settlement for natural persons. T/16212 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 7 abstentions. Dear House, The law on the debt settlement of natural persons essentially aims at restoring the solvency of the debtor through responsible cooperation between the debtor and the creditor, contributing to the creation of a balanced debt settlement process of over-indebted natural persons who cannot meet their payment obligation. To achieve these objectives, the proposal makes a number of amendments that simplify the debt settlement procedure, reduce the burden and costs of debtors and make the procedures more efficient. A number of positive effects of the amendment to the law on debt settlement of natural persons are expected for debtors involved in private bankruptcy proceedings. The proposal on the House's table would amend the requirement for the debt settlement initiative to be indebted. According to this, if the amount of the debt exceeds 80 per cent of the debtor's financial liabilities, it can already initiate the debt settlement procedure. Such debt is already a sign of insolvency, so it is necessary to ensure that the debtor is able to use the instrument of bankruptcy protection. It is not a condition for the debt to reach the value of its assets. The reduction of the debt threshold is likely to help thousands of other people, because from now on not only those in greatest trouble will be able to use the procedure, but also those who owe 80% of their assets, as I said earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, For debtors involved in a private bankruptcy procedure, it is also positive that the proposal increases the amount of the debtor's earnings, income, pension or other liabilities at the repayment stage of the debt settlement procedure for the day-to-day expenses of the debtor, so that the maximum amount may be three times the minimum amount of the old-age pension. It is also proposed to increase the amount of alimony and compensation allowance payable by the debtor during the debt settlement procedure. Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal on the House's table is to amend the rules of private bankruptcy on the basis of practical experience and to fine tune the debt settlement law, a legal institution for the removal of indebted individuals from the debt trap. The use of the procedure becomes more widely available, so it can help thousands of families in difficult situations, protecting them from total indebtedness. In view of this, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Péter Harrach, who would like to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Péter Harrach: Yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-247	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur said the substance of this amendment, but a few sentences should also be allowed by the authors. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) This law was adopted in 2015. At the time, it was the intention of the authors to open the door to the debtors who would use this procedure to keep their homes at home. Indeed, the aim is to restore solvency through cooperation between the debtor and the creditor, with State aid, and this is very important for the debtor to retain his home. Of course, this requires a life-form change, to which the Family Bank Protection Service staff will assist, according to a jointly prepared plan. This included the assumption that, after time, we would open the door wide by seeing the strain, so that more people would get into this possibility. Of course, there is a need to make a life-changing effort. Those who refuse to do so seek other help, who, on the other hand, thinks that they are carrying a modest but humane way of life, thus allowing repayment, the repayment that the financial institution and the state aid are bringing down to the extent that they are able to pay, and that they take advantage of this opportunity. Not to mention the fact that after six years, there was a need to valorise the costs that appeared. What changes are being made in the amendment? Indeed, the ratio of debt to wealth has changed, and more people can now enter this system. The administrative burden has also been reduced, as it has been difficult for many to sum up, follow-up to, and include in the plan the debts created in different places. Now this obligation is the main creditor's responsibility, thereby reducing the burden on the debtor. We also reduced the minimum monthly repayment by roughly 10 percent, and also increased the contribution to the maintenance of the aforementioned changed life form, with an average of HUF 15 thousand per person. So we have achieved a change that increases the possibility of bankruptcy protection, that is to say, we hope that the number of people who will use this option can be increased and their burden reduced. [[19.00]] I feel that it is an acceptable change for everyone, to which the biggest objection so far has been to say that we should do more. Indeed. That's all there is to it. It is a law that must be maintained continuously. It doesn't solve everyone's life, but it offers opportunities for a part of families in an impossible situation, and others can also use different tools, solutions that have just been discussed, but there is no doubt that social policy must keep an eye on the lives of families in difficulty and give an appropriate, differentiated response to this. Allow me just one sentence to say that, now that my situation has been abused, I will comment on a previous topic, the activity of charitable organisations. The advantage of organisations that are able to differentiate solutions better than the state, knowing the different needs on the ground, is that they are organised by a state-funded but local solution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-248	Thank you very much for your speech, Mr Péter Harrach. If I'm reading it correctly, ten minutes... how many minutes left? We'll look into it. You've got time to close, Congressman. I ask you, on the part of the government, the Secretary of State wishes to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2021-06-14-249	Mr President, Dear House, I am somewhat sad because during the general debate I indicated to my fellow members of the government that it is worth looking around in countries where debt management has already been successful, for example the private bankruptcy, the right to walk in the institution of family bankruptcy, could indeed appear in Hungary for those who have paid their debts demonstrably, but still require additional sums. It is amazing, therefore, that not only do they not accept our proposals in this regard, but they do not even think about how many families they can help. Furthermore, the reform of the system of enforcement bans has become inevitable. I would therefore like to capacitate to my fellow pro-government Members that, in addition to the fact that there is, of course, a cosmetic facilitation in this proposal, they should realise that there are very few people involved, a few thousand people who have been able to help in many years only, while hundreds of thousands of our countrymen are in difficulties with their ability to pay, more precisely, their inability, and many of them are faced with bans on executives, 33 percent and 50 percent, with minimum incomes, minimum wage and minimum pensions. We therefore call on you to exempt this amount of money for everyday living, to exempt it from enforcement bans; if this happens, it will be up to patching back a small piece of the social network and to observe, and then the proportion of those who are able to break out of the insolvency situation will fall measurablely and in a very short time. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-14-250	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I ask you, on behalf of the government, the Secretary of State wishes to comment. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] No. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[Peter Harrach says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on tougher action against pedophile offenders and on amendments to certain laws on the protection of children, as well as the discussion of the summary amendment proposal, follow up. Máté Kocsis, Gabriella Selmeczi fideszes MEPs, Lőrinc Nacsa, Lőrinc KDNP, Alpár Gyopáros and Erik Bánki Fideszes MEPs, as well as Mónika Dunai, a representative of Fidesz, joined as presenters T/16365. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee, in a 15-minute time frame.
u2021-06-14-251	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16365 on stricter action against pedophile offenders and the amendment of certain laws to protect children. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis and dr. Gabriella Selmeczi, members of the parliamentary group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association T/16365. Under No. 1, the Council presented a bill on the more stringent action against pedophile offenders and on the amendment of certain laws in order to protect children, on 25 May 2021, to which several of my fellow Members, including myself, joined as rapporteur. Sexual crimes against children can cause an inaccessible break in the lives of children and can irreversibly negatively affect their physical and mental development. Therefore, in the case of persons directly involved with children, it is of the utmost importance that the trust in them is always well founded, so that the bill establishes a register of sexual offenders to harm children. After electronic identification, the data seeker can enter the data request interface. Information on the data subject may be made available on the surface if the initiating person is an adult person who is a relative of a child or who provides for the education, supervision or care of a child, i.e. not anyone. The following data of the inmates will be available through the register: surname and first name, year of birth, residence at local level, facial image, and data on the crime committed by him. However, such data shall not be disclosed, screen photos, other copies, extracts, summaries, and shall be prohibited from being disseminated, reproduced, recorded or included in a database. The second major area of the legislative amendment is amendments relating to the permanent ban on employment. If a person has already been convicted, so we know that he is a paedophile, then he should not be able to work in a future workplace where he can again be near children, so the proposal extends the existing bans to include: paedophiles should not work in leisure, entertainment, sports-related workplaces, such as beaches, amusement parks, zoos or sports clubs, so there is a significant reduction in their chances of becoming minors again. I would also like to point out here that the perpetrators of these crimes cannot establish a government service. The Btk. I would highlight the re-regulation of the facts of child pornography: in the case of both pornography and pornographic programmes, new classified cases are added. Four such classified cases will be included: crimes committed as a public official, or by portraying distressing or violence, and crimes committed as a particularly repulsive one. [[19.10]] Pornographic recording becomes one of the most serious criminal acts. The reason for this is that the pedophile gets the most direct contact with the child here. Here, instead of the current 1-5 years, it will be punishable by imprisonment of up to 5-15 years if a person takes pornographic footage of a child under 12 years of age or commits it as an official. Similarly, if you place, trade, and disclose pornographic images of children under the age of 12, you will also be punished for up to 15 years. The proposal also establishes a super-qualified case, in which, if the previous two acts are distressing, the maximum penalty for the sentence is already 20 years, which exceeds the sentence of manslaughter. Under the current rules, if a sexual offence committed under the age of 18 is punishable more than five years of imprisonment, the crime will never lapse. If no more than five years of imprisonment is punishable, the duration of the limitation period shall not be counted until the victim is 18 years old. It is proposed that in the case of sexual offences which are not punishable more than five years of imprisonment, the duration of the limitation period shall not be counted until the victim is 21 years of age. Thus, the crime of these crimes cannot lapse before the victim is 26 years old. It is proposed that a new classified case of harassment, where harassment is committed by a person over 18 years of age to the detriment of a person under 18 years of age, is punishable by a sentence of two years instead of a basic one-year sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee believes that if the package of proposals were adopted, we would be able to provide a higher level of safety for parents and their children concerned about their children in a number of life situations, whose mental and social health is the key to the future of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of this, the Legislative Committee proposes to adopt the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-252	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the authors. [[For signal:]] Yes, I will give the floor once again on behalf of the authors, to Mrs Mónika Dunai.
u2021-06-14-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Article 15 (5) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary states: Hungary protects families, children, women, the elderly and people with disabilities by special measures. In keeping with the provisions of the Fundamental Law cited above, the protection of children and the guarantee of their safety have always been the subject of a bill before you. Since 2010, the civilian government and the governing parties have already made a number of provisions to protect children. We have ensured that those who committed serious crimes against children should not engage in activities related to the education, supervision, care and treatment of children. In addition, in the case of serious crimes against children, in particular sexual crimes, we have also provided for their non-judgement and the rest of the limitation period. Gradually, we have introduced a ban on permanent employment for those who have committed sexual crimes to harm children. We have further tightened the penalty for sexual activity with a person under 12 years of age, tightened the employment ban, changed the facts of trafficking in human beings and increased the penalties for sexual offences against children, and strengthened the principle of punishment for violent crimes against the person who has been harmed by the relative. Ladies and gentlemen, The ninth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law states that Hungary protects the right to self-identify the birth of children and ensures that the education based on the constitutional identity and Christian culture of Hungary is based on values. We have repeatedly stated here in Parliament that, of all the crimes in existence, sexual crimes committed to the harm of minors are the most disgusting, the most bestial acts, since in almost all cases they are incompetent young children, whose lives are changed fundamentally and irreversibly as a result of the crime. Because of what has happened, it is very difficult for these children to open up to others or trust anyone. Underage victims suffer all of this at the stage of life when, by completing the most basic emotional, intellectual, and social abilities, they could acquire the foundations of their personality development. For example, the development of deep friendships, the joy of winning a school competition or the experience of passion for team sports. These seem to be ordinary experiences, from which the victims are most likely never to benefit again. What's left instead? Instead, there's anxiety, uncertainty, fear of everyone. And why is all this happening? For nothing more than the satisfaction of a sexual predator attracted to minors. No, you're not. We can't stand this. We must seize all means to create safer conditions for our children by preventing paedophile offenders and putting them in jail for as long as possible. A pedophile can be a complete stranger to the child, or he can be a family member or a good friend of the family. It is very difficult for everyone to recognize how difficult it is for a child, a small child, to experience and recognize the danger he is facing! Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of the package of proposals that we are discussing are guaranteed to give thought to those who have a desire for children, since in the event of their fantasy, they will face a prison sentence of more than the penalty of murder, but also a much stricter penalty for a so-called minor crime. These provisions have already been presented in the debate on the bill and in the opinion of the Legislative Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above, you can see that as representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association, we are committed to protecting our children, for which we cannot do enough and do enough. As you have seen, we have tightened the laws every year to protect children. In my view, in the event of the adoption of our package of proposals, we will be able to provide a higher level of safety for parents and their children who are concerned about their children in a number of life situations, whose mental and social health, which has already been mentioned on several occasions, is the key to the future of our society. Ladies and gentlemen, Remember: the medical diagnosis of pedophilia does not mean and cannot constitute an exemption from punishment. Such persons can be counted, and the pedophile can distinguish between moral good and evil, but he does the wrong thing. Let us prevent this together, honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to join the children in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-254	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. If I understand correctly, you'll have eight minutes and 44 seconds in the lockdown. I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2021-06-14-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We will support the bill, the anti-pedophile bill, and we will accept it in tomorrow's vote, but that doesn't mean we're on Fidesz' side. [[19.20]] We are on the side of the victims, which if you look at this proposal more carefully, you have somehow forgotten. The fact is that two weeks ago, when the general debate took place, there was obviously a complete consensus on the opposition side with criticism and this proposal. Everyone here has agreed from the Dialogue, from Bernadette Wind to Jobbik, that we really need to tighten it up. They also agreed with the introduction of the pedophile register and the ban on these walking monsters from many professions and professions. For you, let's just say this has disrupted your pre-arranged plans. They have a ready campaign strategy to look at how they will share or how they intend to share the opposition and how they intend to mount a pedophile campaign. If you were honest about this motivation, from which this law was born, then the fact is that, let's say, István Hollik would not have said in 2017 to the Hungarian Times that the current legislative environment gives you the strength to settle these crimes or to act against them. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: This is how you lie about everything!]] It was also our suggestion, and if anyone in this case is consistent, if they can represent the fact that these walking beasts have to be cut off, then it's us. For three cycles, for 11 years now, we have said that there is a need for tightening up. There's no argument here. However, you have politicised this proposal in terms of calculation and political gain, which is likely to result in the fact that there will be someone on the opposition side who will not accept it or withdraw from it, protesting what you have done with this bill. But there would have been time, by the way, for two weeks, to introduce amendments to indicate their constructivity, which was discussed here in the general debate. What do I mean? It's supposed to be an alpha and an omega of victim protection, prevention, victim support. Yes, it is also a kind of prevention that these aberrant beings will go to prison for as long as possible. But it would be nice to prevent all of this and avoid the lifelong trauma that is affecting minors through such a pedophile abuse. How can this be avoided? Well, for example, by accepting the proposals that were made on the opposition side, they submitted it, and you swept it down, they threw it in the trash. What's this about? Members of the child protection warning system and, by the way, parents and children should be given annual training, let us say, in order to recognise and recognise the rights, the dangers that were mentioned earlier by the Member. Obviously, this would require a transfer of state resources. Here comes the idea, let's say, that Jobbik's suggestion is that burdened teachers should be helped by special experts in schools with social workers and social educators who could deal with these children; if there were professionals at school besides teachers who would be able to turn to them with full confidence and honesty. Then it would be important to have a network of children's psychologists in Hungary, which will also be able to handle children who have suffered trauma. Where is this? Why did you sweep off our proposal then, Congresswoman, to double the amount to be spent on school social work? It's 5.5 billion forints. It's nothing in a state budget, a kilometer from the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. Why didn't you have money for this? They told us to calm down, and that would be a round suggestion. Well, it's not very round, this proposal is bleak. Once again, we fully accept the restrictions, we need these, these things to support, but where's the prevention, where's the victim support? I'll tell you: nowhere. You didn't care about that. Obviously, the cheaper option was chosen when it was clearly just about tightening sanctions. By politicizing this bill, they've proved that you're afraid. They're afraid of being accounted for. Because God doesn't want it to be so, but if you want to hang a campaign on this story, then it will be proof that this has been deliberately planned, and that the victims, their sufferings, are actually intended to be used in such a campaign, which victims and their photos, the photos of their torture and abusing, have landed at your Kaleta, whose case they were trying to smear, and in some outrageous way they could get away with a fine of just HUF 5000,000 and a suspension. If we look at what else is the motivation behind all this, then the science of psychoanalysis does know self-preservation mechanisms, a self-deception that, let's say, is called reaction training. So, if there's a need to disappear, and you're uncomfortable with it, then you're trying to cover it up with motivations in the opposite direction, and that's why you're smuggling things into this bill that you might have, because why not have a legitimate debate, but you don't belong here. Do you understand exactly what I'm talking about? So, the cognitive dissonance, when they show themselves to be something, and the reality we're experiencing is a little bit shaky, and let's just think about running away from a vein, right, from a gay orgy, then we're gonna have to communicate it to the electorate, and, if necessary, put things in such a bill that might not be originally there, but it's gonna be very good to try and share the opposition with him. If you wanted to, you would have been able to present us with a bill that preserves this consensus, and if you wanted to amend the version from two weeks ago, you could have included the constructive proposals that I mentioned earlier. It didn't happen, even though it was clear that if something important came up for you, it would be trampled through Parliament in one day without professional, political and social consultation. I'd like to ask you again where prevention and victim support are then. So, Congresswoman or Members, in the pro-government benches there, it would be good to think about this, and from here, from the benches of the Jobbik faction, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we are voting in favour of this bill, because we really consider it important to punish such perpetrators, these monsters, and to remove them from society, but the fact is that you should be ashamed of yourselves because, in any case, this whole matter is sacrificed or attempted to be involved in the political witchcraft of Habony, and to drag it all on the opposition for which, once again, you should be ashamed, because behind every story like Kaleta's, there are many innocent children suffering. But we will accept this proposal tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-14-256	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'm asking you to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2021-06-14-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's just a comment. I am pleased that my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs has said the last sentence to vote in favour of this bill. You forget, however, that the bill is also about protecting children, not just about harder action against pedophile offenders. So if you are attacking the very amendments that serve the protection, I think you are in complete contradiction with this speech. [[Ander Balázs intervenes.]] [[19.30]] And the other part of it is still said that during the debate we presented the career of starting his foreign service in America during the Gyurcsány government, also abroad, in foreign service. They're talking about a career diplomat, and don't try to mess him up with the Fides. [[Ander Balázs: Then why are you apologizing?]] He was never a Fidesz member, and he had nothing to do with Fidesz. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You shouldn't have apologized!]] Technically, you don't have to make any accusations, so just think about the facts. You are using this debate precisely for political purposes. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-258	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate within the remaining 8 minutes and 44 seconds.
u2021-06-14-259	Thank you very much, I would like to take a much less time. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your comments, for your comments not only today, but throughout the debate. I would like to respond very briefly to the questions raised today by my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs. First of all, it is very important to say that, and at the beginning of my speech, and therefore at the beginning of my speech as rapporteur, I did not consider by accident the measures that we have already taken from 2010 until now, which have tightened up the protection of children and the categories of crime against children. It's not a campaign. If it was a campaign stunt, it would be the first thing we would have done. You can see that we are constantly looking for ways to intervene and make it even stricter, we can offer even better and better means for justice and for everyone who pursues criminals, for the police, and for the rest, but mostly for families and children who are often left alone in these situations. By the way, you're the only ones handling the campaign. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel laughs.]] It's a long way from the election next year. At the moment, you've been preparing for a preliminary election. We work, we make laws. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Because of the dog, they went on leave.]] We're negotiating a law to help families and children who are wanted by pedophiles. Dear fellow Member, It is also very difficult to see on this law why this otherwise very serious and very diverse bill does not contain any more tightening up and why it does not include more assistance mechanisms. This is the subject of this law. By the way, victim support also works in Hungary. It can be argued that it has sufficient standards in practice, which will be achieved. This is a sensible debate that can be discussed in the future, and we are open to all good. This bill, please accept it, is now about punishing pedophile crimes much, much more rigorously, which we hope will be a deterrent to our children's protection. Thank you again for your comments and support for tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-260	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the registration of legal persons and on the registration procedure and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal are now under way. Government referral T/16206. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-14-261	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16206 on the registration of legal persons and the registration procedure. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In front of us lies T/16206. The draft law on the registration of legal persons and the registration procedure, which aims to merge the register with the register of civil society organisations and the register of other legal persons into a single single register, since there is currently no central register of the basic data of non-natural persons in Hungary, from which, for example, economic operators could be informed in a uniform and simple form about a partner involved in a commercial transaction. In addition to civil law relations in the classic sense, our civil code also includes general rules on private law persons and standards governing company law. The Ptk. The regulatory basis is based on a single private-law approach, which means that the most important guarantee rules are not differentiated between types of legal entity, such as the establishment, termination, registration, name and registered office of the legal entity. From this perspective, it logically follows that consistency should also be achieved with regard to the register. Currently, in most cases, there is no interoperability between the registers that overlap legal persons, and therefore there is insufficient transparency, as data are stored in different forms and structures, and data can only be provided through different platforms. For this reason, the records of legal persons cannot be effectively linked, which, in turn, greatly limits Hungary's competitiveness. Dear House, After drawing up the current problems and the concept contained in the proposal, allow me to give some examples of the main benefits of a single register: uniform procedural rules, faster procedures, uniform enforcement practices, more efficient management of public data assets, reduced administrative burden for customers and better relevance of the data contained in the register by linking public registers. The bill introduces automatic decision-making in the registration and registration procedures as a novum, which allows non-electronic non-court procedures to become electronic procedures, in addition to the high degree of automation of administrative acts. One of the most important innovations of the draft law is that civil non-court proceedings relating to companies, NGOs and other non-companies are referred to in the proposal as a single registration procedure, while the registration or registration and registration procedures, as well as conversion, merger and division registration procedures are referred to in the proposal as a single registration procedure. Dear Parliament, Many Member States of the European Union, for example, Austria, Belgium, Poland, use the register of single legal entities, which, when passing through the information age, meets the need to speed up government decisions to respond to accelerated social and economic developments worldwide. In Hungary, the standardization of registers takes place in several stages. In addition to the establishment of a single register of legal persons in the first phase of the development, 2022-2023, budget bodies and the register of law firms will be integrated. In the second and third phases, and in 2023-2024 additional state records will be integrated, for example, with the registration of self-employed persons, the register of churches and the register of condominiums. In summary, it can therefore be said that the draft will create a unified, state-owned and secure IT environment. The rules of the new register shall, mutatis mutandis, be introduced at the level of law. Procedures will become faster, more modern and simpler, and the use of modern technologies will make it easy to eliminate errors resulting from human intervention. A single database structure and procedures will be developed and a data provider and the legal background for the data processing competences of the single system's management organisations will be laid down. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the House's table should be supported, as it is a huge step towards building a digital society by developing e-administration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-262	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I would like to ask the secretary of state sitting here on behalf of the rapporteur, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. [[19.40]] Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author... [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] No matter what I ask, you'll tell me no, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal now follow. Government referral T/16207. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor again to Congressman David Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-14-263	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is Ptk. proposes to amend its Third Paper on legal persons. It should be noted that this proposal is closely linked to the proposal for a law on the registration of legal persons and the registration procedure that was discussed earlier. Despite the fact that the third book's regulatory system has worked, the regulatory proposals that have been reached by case law have nevertheless justified the amendments that have been made to us. The bill seeks to ensure that legal persons' rights, and especially company law, are further strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, first of all, that the proposal intends to allow, in future, certain provisions and amendments to the instrument of incorporation of a legal person to be challenged without any time limit in the event that the new system of company proceedings places a strong emphasis on the fact that, in the course of registration, the court is not allowed to intervene in matters falling within the scope of contractual freedom of the members' competence. Due to the proposed changes, the replacement payment becomes a general corporate legal instrument. 'Cause so far, it's just cvt. In the future, we could talk about the institution of replacement payments. All forms of company with the exception of this option will benefit from this option. The amendment to the rules on the public limited liability company was justified by the increase in competitiveness, by allowing for the development of a stock exchange, free of company legal barriers, by the fact that the company is a public limited liability company. allows the listing of shares before the listing of shares, with the condition that the company must ensure the listing of the shares within one year. Given that it is not in itself in an interest to have at least half of the shares as ordinary shares, the amendment repeals the provisions on the proportion of ordinary shares and other shares. The dispositive regulation of the repeated general meeting will be governed by what was said at Kft. The proposed legislation should be supported, since, while maintaining the right of legal persons and their dispositive approach, it has become essential that the proposals drawn up by the case law are developed by the Ptk. integrate it into its system, which further strengthen the coherence and stability of company law and its competitiveness. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-264	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee did not draft a rapporteur. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It says no. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'm asking you, Vane wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate on the screen, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He says he doesn't want to say anything. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the application of financial compensation for the withdrawal of civil proceedings and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. Government referral T/16218. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor again to Congressman David Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-14-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16218 on the enforcement of financial compensation in connection with the withdrawal of civil proceedings. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 7 abstentions. Dear House, Article XXI of the Fundamental Law of Hungary It states that everyone has the right to have his or her affairs handled impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time. In addition, everyone has the right, as defined by law, to compensation for damage caused by the authorities to him illegally in the performance of their duties. The right to a procedure within a reasonable time and the right to an effective remedy are also named in the European Convention on Human Rights. The new procedural rules have started to reduce the length of proceedings at systemic level, but it is also necessary to establish an appeal procedure which is adapted to the specificities of each sectoral procedural rule system and which compensates for the infringement caused by the possible extension of the procedure. This is what the bill on the House's table is intended to promote. The proposal places the fundamental right to complete civil proceedings within a reasonable period of time under special legal protection. It regulates the procedure to compensate for the damage to fundamental rights by means of financial damage and to ensure that it is enforced. As an independent sui generis legal institution, the new legal protection is granted to a person who is a party to legal proceedings in the light of the infringement of its fundamental rights. Ladies and gentlemen, As a general rule, the bill sets out the duration of the judicial procedure, which is also adjusted by the amount of the financial compensation to compensate for the length of the proceedings. In any event, it should be pointed out from a number of forward-looking elements of the proposal that the draft takes into account sensitive matters requiring a faster assessment, such as child-reservation lawsuits or labour litigation, so that a shorter objective period is also set for the whole court procedure and procedural stages. The claim for financial compensation may be enforced in court civil non-court proceedings. Dear Parliament, I believe that by adopting the bill, we can take a significant step to reduce the length of civil proceedings for an unreasonable period of time; that the fundamental right to complete civil proceedings within a reasonable period of time will be a priority; and that citizens will also be provided with financial compensation for harm. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-266	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so, honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] The author indicates that he does not wish to speak. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1993 LXXVIII on certain arrangements for renting apartments and premises and their disposal. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation by Mr László Böröcz, Member Fidesz T/16223. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, rapporteur of the committee. [[19.50]]
u2021-06-14-267	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 10 June 2021, LXXVIII of 1993 discussed certain arrangements for the rental of dwellings and premises and their disposal. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. T/16223. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 23 votes to one vote, with no abstention. Dear House, The proposal concerns thousands of tenants and their families, who, by means of this option, can eliminate the insecurity of housing, which has been in effect for 30 years, since during the housing privatisation of 93-94, when everyone else could buy their apartments, these tenants, the tenants living in these apartments, could not buy their apartments in the Council. The amendment would apply to world heritage areas, to these types of housing or tenants, as this problem is concentrated in this area. So I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-268	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author, or he'll talk. Would you like to speak again? [[László Böröcz says no.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, [[András Tállai:]] I ask you, he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[András Tállai says no.]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2021-06-14-269	Mr President, Dear House, The opposition representative can be surprised, for example, because it took place so quickly. This is not common in a second round or detailed debate. It can be felt that the representatives of the governing parties are uncomfortable with what is happening here. I, by the way, sincerely felt sorry for my fellow Member Böröcz in the first round, when they tried to explain with very uncomfortable, a few minutes of sluggish comments why it was necessary for you to stress: you believe that in Hungary hundreds of thousands of rents are being used for pennies, among other things, for your minions. Then they sensed the amazing people's anger that arose about this in Hungary, very fortunately; the fact that, in fact, opposition parties are united, civil and all kinds of actors articulating each other's voices, amplifying the fact that this madness, this national wealth play-off, cannot be allowed to be left alone. My fellow Member, the original proposal for your name would have tried to outplay a national fortune worth approximately HUF 800-900 billion for pennies. We have to tell you that it's a great deal of luck that you've backed out of this. It is a great luck that, in essence, 98-99 percent of the original home-privatization thieving law has been re-danced, thus making it easier for the government of national unity to stand up next year, as we will have fewer tasks in terms of reparation, but we also want to protect the homes of the Buda Castle. You, fellow Members, were still hiding here during the detailed debate and in the midst of various forms of procedure, so that we do not think that Rákay Philip and Zsolt Bayer will be able to buy their own little rentals so easily, which they themselves said they had acquired the right to rent under strange circumstances. I am neither a prosecutor nor a lawyer, so I do not want to judge from a legal point of view how these strange transactions, practices and machinations were, how they acquired these rental rights, but I see that, on the basis of your last round proposal, my fellow Member Böröcz, these people have nothing to do but wait five years from the beginning of the lease, and then buy this lease at a very discounted price in the same way as anyone else. So it's not true, what you said, that it's not about your minions, because in the monument protection areas and in the priority zones, there are actors, by the way, who are connected to you in a mass, and under your regency, they have access to public channels, umbilical cords that mortals on Earth would find very difficult to obtain. The fact that theft is intended to be replaced by a minor theft does not, in my eyes, constitute an exemption. I have to say, after eleven years of talking about this, about the loss of the tenement property, it's a certificate of poverty in itself, and it's a confession in itself that I would definitely reevaluate it if I were on the government, my own work. After eleven years, do you know what you should be talking about? About the fact that the Hungarian rental property, say, increased by 200 or 300 thousand apartments. What you should be talking about now is that out of the 500,000 vacant Hungarian properties, the local government and state-owned ones were examined, 15 or 20 percent of them were found to be refurbished, restored to Hungarian life, and given as a rental apartment to Hungarian couples who, by the way, have to earn a living abroad. That's what you should be talking about after eleven years, not shrinking the rents, getting loose, busting rent. In your expert box, your employees, there are people with everyday housing problems just like we do. Luckily, we, fortunately, do not face this directly, but it does not allow you to view those who, say, get stuck in a sublet and, thanks to your perverted and neoliberal family support policy, in a subpoena, thanks to their perverse and neoliberal family support policy, they are not able to get out of there. You are shaking your head, Mr. Secretary of State, but you cannot explain to me what you have provided to young Hungarians instead of state support for housing savings that you have abolished. You promised me Antal Rogán's house lotto, and fortunately it didn't turn out to be anything. Now they're coming up with an earlier better idea that's been grounded and heated up, which is a sja-free for people under the age of 25. So they couldn't even do this perfectly, but if they count how much housing costs take from a typical family's cash register, they see that if they add up 27 percent VAT, weak forints and all these other effects, they will take away multiples of what you're trying to do for these families. So what I am saying is that there is a painful need for a public housing programme, but at the same time we have your budget plan, your dream, your vision of Hungary. And what we can see is that there is an abundance of non-refundable support for multi-company companies, and there is a benefit to executives and business circles, the young Hungarians we are talking about here, but they are not on the housing front in this budget planning. And I do not think that, whether Mr Secretary of State or my fellow Member Böröcz, he can now stand up and in an unattractive way justify what proves that, with a ministerial salary, in accordance with your housing programme, a 10-million-dollar grant can be put in the pocket for a clearly non-necessary person, and a young person living in a sublet can typically wait only for a reduced loan if the intermediary bank votes for it; there is not enough available for an affordable rental. Why didn't they support building something like this? Why do they bleed out local governments who would expect the existing tenancy to be maintained? So it's quite amazing how this area has been dismantled, and what's particularly bothering me is that you've been trying to pour down this whole thing with a national syrup, while you're a veterinary horse of false national and self-rewarding attitude, which you've done on the housing front. They let the rents go free, they let the real estate prices explode, and when we asked your minister what he thought about the introduction of the CSOK, which, by the way, I supported, I wouldn't have done it without how much he blew up the real estate prices. You know what the answer was? I don't know. It's a market, please. It's a profession. So you can't get to it, just with sounds of promises and spectacles, with sound ideas that are still available to few people! You can't do this, please. That is why I say that, as far as the home-privatisation law is concerned, I see now that the representatives of the governing parties are trying to show patience, they want to get through this debate, they want to get through the vote, but the thing is that we will not forget this. [[20.00]] So in as many places as this proposal is constitutionally offensive, we will take legal redress for it. I would like to send a message from here to those who are now building on a rentable apartment from your very narrow wagon camp, so that they do not take this as yet cash, because the test of law and constitutionality will not, in my view, stand by this bill, and we will do everything we can to stop this horror for the future of Hungary's young people. I serve only my country, but I am able to go against this proposal for the Hungarian future. Our faction and other opposition groups will, of course, do the same. Thank you for your attention. [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]]
u2021-06-14-270	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2021-06-14-271	Thank you very much for the floor. We were looking forward to this amendment, which had been waved, and, apparently, Mr Böröcz did not know what was in it, or did not remember it, by the way. However, this amendment gives a reassuring justification for the preliminary assumption that this bill had no other purpose than to get friends to live in, and that, in addition, some residents still, let's say, can make use of the possibility, is a category that fits into it. Why am I saying this? If that hadn't been the case, then... I tabled an amendment to this law, which was, moreover, about preserving our national treasures at world heritage sites, that, on the one hand, it would have made it possible to purchase these properties only for those who were unable to make use of the option during the home privatisation of 93, but that is not what you did. What you did was that you made it possible for everyone, for the person who hit me on the date last December 7th, and now for the date, he got it, say, for a cabin or for a garage, a hundred million forints worth of real estate. If my fellow Member were to talk to his fellow party members, such as Zsolt Bayer, he could ask him how much he thought the neglected wooden house he gave for two first district properties was worth, and yet, as a good boomerang, the wooden house always returned to the original owner. So, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you can see the goal and you can see the instrument. Unfortunately, my fellow Member Böröcz was forced to face the fact that he made the original proposal so foolishly that it would have destroyed the entire municipal rental system in Hungary in such a way that even his own partymates wouldn't let him do it, and they said that he was okay, that you should just stay calm for a while, and then we'll do it, don't worry too much. I think you think that something very strange and uninterpretable is property, because this proposal is now, even after the amendment, a serious constitutional breach, because it violates property rights, violates the right to dispose of property to the owner's municipality. I would just like to add quietly that, by the way, they also require that the municipal government spend the extraordinarily low income, even though a tenant housing system can help a great deal in social groups with whom you probably have not met in your lifetime and have never heard their voices. At the moment, in District I, and if you wanted to get a little information, Mr Böröcz, you should be aware of this fact, you have six apartment applications in progress, a social-based municipal rental contest. The six apartments, my fellow Member, will be surprised, have received more than 200 applications. So I think that this question is no longer a question, not that there is a need for an otherwise well-functioning municipal housing system, which, by the way, you are very generously trying to destroy and sell our national treasures only at world heritage sites. I'm afraid that one day one of them will come up with a great idea, and the crown, the crown jewels, will be sold, because that wouldn't be a big surprise. You have destroyed the application system for social city rehabilitation in 2010 and are now continuing this extremely harmful series of acts. I just want to say that this is so much a campaign that you like to deny in an extraordinary way. If this proposal had not come in on the basis of a campaign, it would have only applied to those who, by the way, had actually been left out of the flat privatization of 93 and, by the way, I'm sure, remember the fellow politician of Gábor Nagy, also a member of the Fidesz-KDNP Association, who was the mayor of the I. district, and also for a very long time, his parliamentary representative. So if he wanted to, he would have asked himself at lunch on Sunday, and he could have initiated the same bill or something to achieve these goals. But that's not what happened. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Your fellow party did not wish to submit this bill once, so thank you very much for submitting this to us in the light of the upcoming 22nd elections, so thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2021-06-14-272	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask him if he'd like to comment on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] It says no. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[On the sign of László Böröcz:]] You have the floor, Congressman Böröcz.
u2021-06-14-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I expected something else to be honest with you, especially since Congressman Csárdi is supposed to be a representative of the Budapest 1st constituency, who said that I wrote down that this bill, which concerns some 1,500 families and tenants, is addressed to some residents. I would ask Mr President how many of his constituents he has met, because these few residents mean thousands of people together with the families. By the way, Congressman, I don't know where you get the courage to make these fabricated accusations to thousands of people that they're supposed to steal the municipal property. Most people have been living in these apartments for decades. [[Antal Csárdi: The majority of government steals it!]] You had a dog's duty to stand up for the tenants in District I when your ally, your mayor, tricked them, cheated them, and ended up trying to raise their rent. You didn't do anything then, Congressman, I don't know how you remember. I was even invited in by the mayor's wife to talk to you, and then I told her I was coming back, and I've been waiting for this conversation ever since, nothing happened. You were so cowardly, Congressman, that you didn't dare to do anything about this, but you were driven by the desire to be president of the council, as the mayor imagines herself, to distribute the apartments to your friends. [[Antal Csárdi interrupts and leaves the room.]] Because what is this story about? The six social housings that you mentioned, Mr. Congressman, about the application. I should have looked into it, as I told you in the previous debate: there was a 23 - year - old boy, whose father died, who paid 70,000 forints a month as a rent. You say that these apartments were rented at low prices, and now they announced the same apartment for 23 thousand forints. You're not telling the truth, and you're lying. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: A little more modest after such a defeat!]] [[20.10]] With regard to social housing, I would also like to say that the left-wing authorities in this debate are constantly and you, Jobbik, too, have come up with a social housing crisis because you will not be able to rent homes socially. You've seen how many apartments have been rented in all over the last ten years on a social basis. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Meg, Meg! That's why I said it.]] Compared to all the others? It is a minimum that the municipalities have issued at market and cost prices; obviously because it is not worth it to the municipalities, but you forget to talk about it. Congressman Csárdi is still not in the picture, either he does not seem to know the law or he is deliberately twisting and he is not telling the truth on this subject. The Housing Act was amended once in 2013. I'm sure you would have been able to sell the first district apartments. And Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech of the expert type is, of course, always heard, and it is interesting that he has now moved from an extreme right-wing identity expert to a far-left real estate expert. I can only congratulate you on that. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Listen, sweep your own house.]] I hope you're gonna be pissing at Congressman James, because with this style, you're definitely gonna be there, and see if you can get some good post in your party to fight for yourself or even get on the list. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: A little more modest, brother!]] I'm sure it's worth it. You're talking about stealing when thousands of people have been waiting 30 years to buy these apartments. You're desecrating these people. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. András Tállai Z. Carpathian to Daniel: Listen!]] You're embarrassing these people. Shame on you, Congressman, for letting you do that. You don't even know who you're talking about. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't you stand up during the debate?]] He doesn't even know who he's talking about. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We don't have to! Why didn't you get up?]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't you stand up during the debate?]] He doesn't even know who he is (Daniel Z. Carpathian: He doesn't have to! Why didn't you get up? He doesn't even know what kind of situations these people are in, he doesn't know the whole problem. He came in here to be an expert, and he gave me a political hysterical speech with a horse's foot sticking out of it. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't you stand up during the debate?) So, Congressman, you must have ideas with Congressman Csaba Tóth. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How pathetic you are!]] how to protect young people in Hungary. Congratulations on that. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How pathetic you are! Why didn't you get up earlier? A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-274	Thank you very much, Congressman Böröcz. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: A brave man who dares not to argue until the other can't answer! You're pathetic! András Tállai: He's right!]] Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws to vocational training and adult education and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/16204. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-14-275	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 June 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/16204 amendment of certain laws in the field of vocational training and adult education. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 28 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to clarify and complement the detailed rules for the better functioning of the renewed vocational training and adult education system, which will help to provide a wider range of tasks. The proposal sets out in more detail the rules on the management of vocational training institutions and vocational training centres, which make public ownership management obligations more transparent and lay down the basic framework for the planning and use of the institutions' budgets. The proposal lays down at a legal level that there are no limits on free travel for persons with multiple disadvantages and specific educational needs or persons with disabilities in the context of student status. In addition, the bill allows adults studying in vocational education and training institutions to be eligible for student IDs in the new vocational training system. This was an old request, which will now be met if the bill is adopted. The proposal states that the VET contribution scheme will be implemented as of 1 July 2022, but that organisations engaged in dual training will continue to benefit from the same benefits. The tax burden on labour is thus reduced by 2 percentage points and the tax system in Hungary is further simplified. Dear Parliament, The most important of the changes to adult education may be further reduction in the administration of training courses, but the proposal also provides for training credit, which can be used in a similar way to higher education student credit, free or captive use. This will also be of great help to those taking part in vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the proposal, it will be possible for a renewed, high-quality system of vocational training and adult education to continue to provide adequate responses to the challenges of a constantly changing economic environment. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-276	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Tamás János Schanda: Thank you very much, no.]] Secretary Schanda says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. I now give the floor to the Ukrainian ethnic advocate Szuperák Brigitta, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2021-06-14-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ депутати, представники нацΓональних меншин! ШановнΓ ДержавнΓ Збори! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the floor, Dear House, The subject of my speech is T/16204. Bill No. 1 and amendment of certain laws relating to vocational training and adult education. At its meeting on 17 May 2021, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary decided that T/16204. It intends to hold a detailed debate on the whole of the bill No 1. At its meeting on 1 June 2021, the Committee took part in the T/16204, on the amendment of certain laws in the field of vocational training and adult training. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. No amendments were tabled to the bill, and no intention was expressed by the committee to amend it further. Therefore, the Commission's amendment closing a detailed debate was not tabled. Thus, no amendment was received from the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, but we noted that the bill was proposed on 26. According to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the nationality self-government is not included in the list of persons exempted from the obligation to pay the vocational training contribution. However, on behalf of the rapporteur, Mrs Gábor Pölöskei, Deputy State Secretary for Vocational Training of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, said at the committee meeting that she felt that the comment was well founded and that it was already included in the amendment proposal. I would like to draw the legislator's attention here to the fact that this particular observation is not an individual case, not just a problem with the proposed legislation. A clear list for lawyers, which seems routine, may also result in lengthy procedures and the need for individual problem management. In the same way, to list this section of the bill, the tax law, the provision of which on the exemption of taxes does not mention the municipality of nationality in the list. There is a specific case where the National Tax and Customs Office has imposed a levy on a national government for a purchase of real estate. [[20.20]] I would therefore like to ask and at the same time draw the attention of the legislators, the drafters and authors of legislative proposals and amendments, so that they do not forget about nationalities, at least more specifically about the national self-government in relation to the regulation of an area affecting nationalities. I would like to stress that the life of nationalities is not only spent in the cultural area, because education is increasingly stressed, because this area determines the present of our future generations, on which we will build the future of our nationalities. Please do not forget the list of minority self-governments in school, national basic curriculum, textbook and certificate matters, as we are talking about institutional supporters. All this proves that the work of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is necessary, and it is also useful if, in the debate of a bill, it only makes an observation to the rapporteur and does not express an intention to amend it. Thank you very much for your attention. Дякуņза увагу!
u2021-06-14-278	Thank you very much for the speech by Mr Brigitta Superák on behalf of the Ukrainian ethnicity. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask who wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-06-14-279	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The truth is that the bill was very well presented by Mrs Mónika Dunai, so I should talk less about it. All I have to do is thank you for the comments that have been made in this debate and in the previous debate, in particular for the voice of the speaker, that there has indeed been a constructive cooperation, and I can promise you that this will, of course, continue to be a pleasure and that we will continue to pay attention to the affairs of nationalities. I thank Parliament once again for the very supportive contributions so far, and I ask you to support the bill with your vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-280	Thank you, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the national data assets and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/14949. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor once again to Mónika Dunai, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-14-281	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the T/14949 on national data assets at its meeting on 10 June 2020. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 26 votes to five, with two abstentions. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Digitalisation has an enormous impact on all areas of our lives, whether it be the economy or social processes or the operation of the state. Data, availability, processing and analysis of data are increasingly important. It is increasingly apparent that in the future, only those who have the ability to analyse and process data related to their operation and activity can succeed. The state can't be an exception. It must be able to effectively manage the mass of data managed by the State. Ladies and gentlemen, The need for a bill by the government is 1573-2020. It is created by the strategy of Hungary's artificial intelligence, adopted in Government Resolution No. The strategy is essentially a market initiative. The Artificial Intelligence Coalition, which contains nearly 300 market, scientific and research organisations, prepared the technical proposal on which it is based. One of the key elements of the Hungarian strategy for artificial intelligence is the need to launch the country's data economy, which requires more efficient use of data generated during the operation of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the bill, the legislative framework for national data governance and management can be successfully established. With the legal support of the operation of the NAVÜ, the following can be achieved within the framework of this bill: facilitating the implementation of the Public Data Recycling Act, the operation of the national public data portal, the establishment and maintenance of the national public data register, the establishment and continuous maintenance of public data records, the processing, analysis, provision of data analysis services to government, market and citizens, with the assistance of key service providers designated by the government and bodies responsible for the management of databases. It should be pointed out that the bill focuses on the professional processing and processing of large databases, without prejudice to the rules on access to data of general interest, so that it will continue to be carried out in accordance with the current procedure. Dear House, In order to launch Hungary's data economy and to achieve successful data governance and management, it is essential to establish and adopt the necessary legislative framework. With the adoption of this bill, the 21st Amendment can be successfully implemented. A national legislative environment that responds effectively to the digitalisation challenges of the 20th century. I ask this House to support this proposal in the final vote on these grounds. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-282	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Dear Parliament, I ask the author, he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches will now take place in time-frames, if any. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application on the screen, so the debate is closed. I now give the floor on behalf of the authors to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-06-14-283	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, All I have to do now is to thank the Parliament for the work that has been done so far, and ask that all the Members of Parliament support the adoption of this important bill by voting in favour of tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-284	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the Foundation for the University of Fudan, on the application of assets to the Foundation for the University of Fudan and the discussion of the summary proposal. Government referral T/16225. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, and I will therefore give the floor to Mrs Mátrai Márta, the rapporteur of the committee. [[20.30]]
u2021-06-14-285	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 10 June 2021, T/16225. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 10 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us lays the basis for the expansion of the operation of Fudan University in Hungary by preparing for the establishment of a new Hungarian university with a trust fund, which will be hosted in the future by areas planned to transfer it as a designated asset allocation. In this way, a newly created Hungarian-Chinese university can be institutionalized in Budapest, where Hungarian and Central European students can learn their degrees in Budapest at one of the best universities in the world. The university is scheduled to launch four faculties: Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, Faculty of Natural Sciences and Engineering, Faculty of Public Policy and Business, and Faculty of Medicine. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian campus of Fudan University enables Budapest to be connected to the destinations of the world's top experts and Nobel Prize-winning research professors, as well as attracts talented young people in Europe. In addition, the appearance of Fudan University in Hungary will serve the interests of Hungarian students, teachers and researchers, as well as those of Hungarian higher education, and the interests of the people living in the capital, so the aim is to make an innovative, high-quality investment, together with the development programme of the Budapest Student City, the Southern City Gate, in line with the development directions set out in the given area. Finally, Honourable Parliament, the proposal states that the Government will report to Parliament on the preparation of the investment in the establishment of the institution and the planned costs of implementation by 31 December 2022 at the latest. I ask this House to support the bill before us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-06-14-286	Thank you very much, Mrs Mátrai, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author... [[Tamás János Schanda: Later.]] But I'm not even gonna ask anymore, because it indicates that you don't want to comment. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2021-06-14-287	Thank you very much for the floor. I think I should start by saying that, under the leadership of Krisztina Baranyi, we asked the people, and asked just 30,000 more people than you. 96 percent of these 30,000 people said that they do not wish to host the University of Fudan, Budapest or the Republic of Hungary. She said that this law lays the foundations for the operation of Fudan. Thank you for that frank sentence. There is only one problem with it to justify the fact that the government has lied to the people who are deluded in Budapest to decide whether or not Fudan will come here in a referendum. I think that if you were serious about deciding this issue in a referendum sometime in the distant future, this law should have been removed from Parliament's agenda. On the other hand, I think I should also add that the choice of Fudan University is a value choice. It's a value choice, because you chose the closest educational ally of the Chinese Communist Party instead of trying to lure MIT, Oxford University or Caltech, and I could list for a long time those truly elite, truly recognized universities that could also have been a value choice, but you didn't choose them. I think that the ideological transfer that you are now attempting to achieve through the Fudanon or with the help of Fudan is an extraordinary threat to Hungarian democracy. And I think that everyone who has worked a lot on the change of regime, our parents, or perhaps many of us here in the House, is now crying and feeling ashamed that the change of regime has been betrayed. And I think they're right. This university has no place in the Hungarian country in this way, with public money, borrowing and, overall, with the values that Fudan represents through the Chinese Communist Party. Because, at the time of the change of regime, Hungary also decided on a value choice, and this path is not the path that you are trying to push on Hungary. This path, which you chose, is another way, I might say, to lead back to socialism. And all of this is driven by one interest, that if I want to use your word to establish good economic relations with one of the world's leading economic and political powers. However, I also think that we are members of an alliance that is contrary to the ideology that Hungary has followed so far. And unfortunately, I can't put it any different than I did before. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that we are negotiating this law, not to mention what is written in this law, is clear evidence that you have deceived and deceived the Hungarian population, their countrymen and our countrymen. I think it's shameful. If they had been asked first, and the completeness of the information would not have been provided in such a fidesz way, but properly, and people could have given an opinion in advance rather than in two years' time, then this law would probably not have been on Parliament's agenda. Just as it would not be possible for government representatives to lie to the camera, to the public, that this will once be decided in a referendum. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-06-14-288	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[János Schanda: I wouldn't miss it, Mr. President.]] I give you the floor.
u2021-06-14-289	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have relatively little to say about the bill itself, because Mrs Housekeeper has given an excellent summary of the objectives of the proposal, and I would not repeat that. However, Mr Csárdi's speech has opened up questions that we have had the opportunity to debate here in Parliament, but I do think that we should not let these sentences hang in the air. [[20.40]] On the one hand, Congressman, I am surprised that you have something to do with Annex IX by virtue of your mandate. District IX, and yet you're against it. The development of the district, you are opposed to the fact that an area that is currently rusting, by the way one of the most shameful points in Budapest, can receive real development, the establishment of a university city, a student city, where a university can also be found. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] , dormitory is also available. Congressman, in fact, you could have just done it to me in your words, to hang up your bravery panties, and as the only left-wing Member of the IX. At the same time, it supports the development that brings new opportunities to the IX. Circumference. I am particularly pleased that you now believe in the consultation, and this is indeed an important change in left-wing politics, but, as we have repeatedly said, we believe that this is a matter that has become such an important political issue, we believe that this is a professional issue, a question of higher education, but you have created a political issue from it, so if necessary, we support it to be decided by referendum by the people of Budapest, otherwise. It is the referendum that can put an end to this political issue. However, in order for the referendum to have something to say, so that it can make a decision on actual substantive issues on the basis of substantive facts, it is ready for plans and priced cost estimates. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] We need offers and real data and facts. We're not here yet. It is still a period of concept creation, this is the work that we have called Gergely Christmas and Krisztina Baranyi; I am very confident that they will undertake not to promote the development concept of Student City and the university, not by means of a street name transfer, not by various clownings, but by real work at the negotiating table. This is what they have been assigned to them by their own voters, and we call them that, because if this does not happen, it may be their responsibility, and it will be that the territory will remain the way it looks now, and this cannot be your purpose, nor the Mayor, nor the Mayor. So, Congressman, that's it. But with one more sentence, I'm forced to respond to some of your comments. On the one hand, you brought in value-choice questions. Indeed, it is a value choice that we believe that it is good for young Hungarians to have one of the best universities in the world open campus in Budapest. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] You, I know very often pursue anti-University policies for all kinds of personal frustrations and other reasons, but it is still the case that this university is, by the way, the 31st best higher education institution in the world (Antal Csárdi intervenes.) In the past it was the 34th, but the ranking that ranked the institution even more prestigious has just appeared. It is therefore a value choice that we represent quality, not the middle (Antal Csárdi intervenes.) (Antal Csárdi interrupts.) Mr President, Congressman, not the middle class, not the basic contentment of what we have at the moment, but the desire for further strengthening of Hungarian higher education and, moreover, the representation of international actors is part of this. In this way, you're going to make me account of why MlT isn't here, why we're not cooperating. That's not true. It shows that you're uninformed. You don't know anything about higher education, you just want to create political hysteria in the area of Hungarian higher education. It's a... I understand that, I understand this attitude, Congressman, because you must meet your rightful supporters at the same time. [[Antal Csárdi: Gyurcsány! Gyurcsány! Gyurcsány!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány, to support you, but the fact is that this is not true, MIT has cooperation with the University of Debrecen right now, and there is really serious work going on. We are working on the world's best universities, the world's leading universities, to appear in Hungary, honourable Member. And the category of your amazing political hysteria is that any kind of ideological transfer would take place at Fudan University. This is a completely unfounded false news, honourable Member. Fudan University is not the 31st highest higher education institution in the world because it teaches ideology, but because it brings world-class knowledge and teaches its own students with world-class knowledge. So it is quite amazing that you ignore international rankings, international achievements, international cooperation, so that you can use your own sentences from small provincial, mediocre, anti-university, personal frustration here in Parliament to mislead some voters. This is absolutely amazing, and it is certain that it will not help Hungary in the long run and will not help Hungarian young people. It would be much better if this debate could have remained a normal debate on higher education, a question of higher education, but you are also using the issue of Hungarian higher education for political hysteria. That's quite amazing, Congressman. And that betraying the regime change was the most amusing part of his speech if we didn't talk about a serious subject about who and how he betrays the regime change. Well, because, Congressman, why do I have to remind you that you are a representative of a party with good hopes, which once had important values, had important values, such as freedom, nation, Hungarians across the border, green affairs, important issues on which we can even agree. And instead of representing these values, all you do is refurbish with the people of the past, the man of the past, Ferenc Gyurcsány, and bring back the entire KISK KB and the entire MSZMP. Well, Congressman, this is a betrayal of the regime change, the fact that you're throwing away your former values as saints, and, by the way, some of your list seats, and that some of your individual representatives might be able to leave, so you're willing to sacrifice everything that was important to you earlier. It's a betrayal of the change of regime, not something else. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-06-14-290	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the implementation of Budapest's Student City and the final amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral is T/16226. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, and I will therefore give the floor to Mrs Mátrai Márta, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-06-14-291	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 10 June 2021, T/16226 discussed the implementation of Budapest's Student City. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 8 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, According to the bill, for the faster and more efficient implementation of the Budapest Student City project, the investment should be classified as an investment of a particular public interest by assigning the location of the investment and, if necessary, the properties located in its immediate surroundings to the government regulation. Under the proposal, ÉMI Construction Quality Control Innovation Nonprofit Kft. as a builder of the BFK Budapest Development Center Nonprofit Zrt. as a general successor to a former preparatory builder. [[20.50]] In this context, BFK shall transfer to the preparatory builder a licence or contracts for Student City project elements for the plans it has prepared, without any further planning or procurement obligation on the Student City economic company. The proposal also proposes to amend certain rules on construction activities, which will allow for faster and more efficient implementation of investments. According to the submitted bill, XLIX of 2018 on state tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration and on the implementation of certain improvements and the modification of certain laws in relation to the European Commission's decision on Hungary's film support programme. In view of the developments in Csepel, an additional chapter is added. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, and I believe that the proposal would contain provisions to be supported, I therefore ask with respect that you support me in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-06-14-292	Thank you very much, Mrs Márta Mátrai, for your speech. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] It says no. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. There will now be speeches by Members in the time frame on the agenda and, as previously, no two-minute comment will be possible. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2021-06-14-293	Thank you very much for the floor. This law is a close follow-up to the previous bill on Fudan, because the Secretary of State also remembers that the Hungarian Government has entered into an agreement with Mayor Gergely Karácsony and Mayor Krisztina Baranyi. So his thought in the previous debate, which was about not supporting or supporting progress by the left-wing opposition, is failing at this point. 'Cause what happened? The government has agreed with the two mayors that the area and the area of Fudan and the area of the Student City under this law will build the Student City together. The agreement was full of detailed content, so what kind of service buildings and services will be included in detail, which have now been removed. It is worth seeing that, as it stands, Student City is now about a third of the size of the original plan, and the two thirds of the original plans are now occupied by the new campus of Fudan University. So I think, honourable Member, that I do maintain my view that bringing this university here in this way is a betrayal of the change of regime. The Secretary of State told me to look around and see how many former MSZMP members are sitting in our ranks. I'd like to point out that it's significantly less than your ranks. It's just a quick list that I made up from memory: László Kövér MSZMP member, Zsigmond Járai, János Martonyi, György Matolcsy, István Mikola. What else do you want me to tell you? They were all members of the CIS and/or MSZMP. So I think the kind of argument that this would not be a betrayal of the change of regime is wrong. It is a clear ideological lie to the change of regime, because if the Hungarian government suddenly spent the same money on ELTE, the University of Technology, then perhaps the Hungarian universities could make a significant step forward from the 200th place. But we'd also be ahead of you if you didn't just conclude a cooperation agreement with MIT at the University of Debrecen, but instead of building a MIT campus at Fudan campus. How interesting it is to see how far forward this idea is, in my view! I think that the bill, as they are now trying to sell the Fudan construction and the otherwise unfortunately neutered Student City concept, is infinitely pathetic, so, by definition, the Group of the May Other Political Group cannot support this concept in this form. I think it would be worth going back to the original plans. If the Secretary of State so requests, I would be happy to bring you together with Krisztina Baranyi, who, by the way, has the plans for the original Student City concept, including its visual plans. So I think that this agreement should be read again, which the Hungarian Government has concluded with Gergely Christmas and Krisztina Baranyi. Thank you very much. [[Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2021-06-14-294	Thank you, Congressman Csárdi. The next speaker is Congresswoman Mátrai Márta, Housekeeper Fidesz.
u2021-06-14-295	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not want to offend you, Mr Csárdi, I have absolutely no intention of doing so, but I also find it very unfair to speak to the previous item and also to speak to this item, although the two are not separated from each other. I think, Congressman, that we are talking about setting up a university, the details of which are actually not yet worked out, and it seems that you are not listening to what we are talking about. After all, I also said that in the Legislative Committee and the submission, the Government has committed itself to providing detailed information on both costs and planning and the whole project by 31 December 2021. But I would turn back to the beginning for saying it was extremely unworthy. It is unworthy because the Secretary of State rightly said that we are talking about a university that, in short time, climbed from 34th place to 31st place among the universities of the world, so it is not just any university. However, I would also like to tell you that this university has an exchange with 200 universities and research institutes in 30 countries and regions, and at the same time I would mention Harvard, Yale, Columbia University, and Fudan is a member of Universitas 21, an alliance of the world's leading universities. Interestingly, in Germany and also in the northern European countries, no one objects or objects to the fact that at Fudan University they are conducting research and development, scientific work and an extremely high-quality university education involving foreign university students. At the same time, students come out of this university with such training that they are proud to be students of such a university, such a campus, and acquire knowledge in areas that I have mentioned to you that would be created in Hungary, regardless of the fact that the Prime Minister has promised that we will not deceive the Pests, the people living in the capital, and give us the opportunity to express their opinion. For me, however, this means only one thing that you have said that the people of Budapest have been deceived. It has been deceived because we wish to create an extremely high-quality student city in an area that is, by the way, a disgrace to the capital, and although there have been several governments since the change of regime, none of which has had the opportunity to put it mildly, to implement, eliminate the conditions in the area where Student City would be created and where the university would be deployed. [[21.00]] I would add so much to you, and I hope you will consider what I have said: do you know what you said no to, and do you know what the left has said no to about the university? I'll tell you because I see you looking at me like you don't understand what I'm talking about. Research institutes, labs, libraries, educational buildings, administrative buildings, dorms, catering, accommodation, sports complexes, conference centres are established with the University of Fudan Hungary. All of these would be realized in a district of Budapest that would simply be involved in the circulation of the world, creating an opportunity where students could learn from this university not only from Budapest, beyond the border, from any part of the world, from any part of the countryside, from Hungary, and be proud to be Hungarian, and with this knowledge they can appear anywhere in the world. I am very pleased that Hungary has universities that are also very good in the world ranking, here I mention Semmelweis University, as well as the University of Debrecen, the University of Pécs, where I graduated. I am very proud to be a student of that university at some point, and these universities are issuing students who stand up in the world and bring their reputation to Hungary everywhere. Now, Congressman, you know you and the left say no to that. I think it's a shame. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-06-14-296	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mátrai. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, DK.
u2021-06-14-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The 15th edition of the 15th edition of 2014-15. In the district there was a promising initiative, our then Fidesz MP Tamás László made contact, and he negotiated with the government. We have a former Russian barracks, which was 70,000 square meters of empty property at the time, and in this area there is a 24 thousand square meters, quite novel, so almost handed over before the regime change, a multi-storey building in good condition. Although, in all these years, she's in pretty bad shape. It would have been a Chinese investment. What brought you to me was the 15th. I've got a significant reference in the district, so I was mayor. The reference begins with us having the Asia Center, so we know Chinese people, we have discussed with a number of Chinese politicians and leaders. It is true that, in general, there is at least one political person in the negotiating delegation, who also presents himself and does not keep silent that he is one of the county leaders of the Communist Party or one of the provincial secretaries. We had to negotiate with them. Asia Center was realized relatively quickly, under a year and a half of construction. So that was a good reference. China Mart, which is the wholesale centre of China and Hungary, was then realised, and it was also a huge building, without, of course, costing Hungary a single penny. China brought the building, he bought the property, he brought the plans, the authorization belonged to us. This was the case with the Asia Center. So we didn't take the loan, and we didn't pay it back, but it was practically a Chinese real investment. On this basis, many Chinese were brought to the district, partly as a trader, partly as a family member, and therefore, in this district, it is still the first state education in Europe, so as a KLIK education, the two-language primary schools in Hungary and China, and then, when the 8th grade arrived, it also became a high school, and now there are children coming out of it. I have to say, the graduation kids... they have state agreements behind them, so that's a good test too, they teach original Chinese teachers. So I have to say that 15 of these high schools are going home now, when the school year is over, there is a native Chinese teacher, and this school run by KLIK has become an elite school, not how it started, but now everyone has realized how good this school is. The Hungarian state is also involved in this 50 percent. If I list this, I have to say that there are already very good Chinese references here in Hungary, and this is a significant part of the XV. in the district. If I add that there are about 700 Chinese permanent residents in the district, I must add that the least problems are with Chinese citizens. So both police and other things. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) What I'm bringing you here is that in the particular Russian barracks I started with, a project that traditional Chinese medicine would have had a primary education, a secondary education, and later, like the former high school, a higher education. However, the implementation of this has already been canceled, and I have to say that the arguments that I am listening to here were exactly the opposite, that the Chinese Communists would not come here! That's what the then Fidesz government said. So what do you want to bring here? The leaders of the Chinese Communist Party at this level? Well, no way, communists don't come here! I've had enough of them. That's about what I had to listen to, that's what's been going on, this trial. And it's ringing back to me because in this building there would have been a boarding school, the traditional training would obviously have been done by Chinese medical teachers, there was a significant need for untrained people in natural medicine shops to sell natural medicine products, and their primary secondary education would have been the first stage, and could have evolved until college or university. At the time, the same government, I could almost sense it, because I attended many trials for ideological reasons. There was a conference where the University of Pécs, the University of Semmelweis, the University of Debrecen and many others, where these projects were presented in the lecture, were partially supported and partly received by Hungarians with reservations. This ideological difference appeared in the first place. I would like to mention this because I have just turned the dice, there is a successful reference for XV. In the district, there are several large investments, and then there is an investment in which we take out the loan, the whole plan is prepared by the Chinese, but we pay for it, and now I hear that we are going to operate it, but I don't know exactly what really happened to the government if these Chinese were very communists in 14-15. Thank you very much.
u2021-06-14-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group, in the amount of time left.
u2021-06-14-299	Thank you very much. I'm trying to keep it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies I'm sorry I'm going to respond so badly, but I really have a minute and a half. I do not think it is worth confusing the cooperation and the construction of a campus of hundreds of billions of forints from the Hungarian tax forints. However, if we were going to spend it on this, I think it would be much more forward-looking if we had contacted, for example, the MIT mentioned above or the Caltech, but I could have said something else, and now I just hit my stomach. I'm sure you remember, ma'am, the last few weeks have had some sad news that one of the mathematics professors at Fudan University killed the local party secretary. [[21.10]] And I'm sorry, and I'd like to make it clear that that's not the point, and that's not why I'm telling you that I'm trying to put this on this volume, and here's the small print: the party secretary and the ideological transfer. You are not planning, Mr State Secretary, to re-introduce the function of party secretary at the Hungarian universities, because these lowercase parts will also appear in the loans through which the Hungarian Government is obscenely serving the geopolitical and economic objectives of the People's Republic of China. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why is it that this can be done uncritically? Thank you very much for your patience.
u2021-06-14-300	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Mátrai Márta, Fidesz Group. Take your time, ma'am. We've got time.
u2021-06-14-301	It shows that I wasn't planning on talking to him.
u2021-06-14-302	We're patient, we've got time. Take your time.
u2021-06-14-303	But I would like to tell Mr Csárdi to listen to what he said. And then you'll realize that you're shocked! First of all, he testifies that they have no idea what the Fundamental Law of Hungary contains. If you knew, it would include that Hungary is a democratic rule of law and its form of state is a republic. Now, Hungary will never be ideologically identical to the People's Republic of China. This is not an ideological and inter-state ideological relationship and re-education training I do not know what you thought, but it is a research and development, it is a university, it is a higher education, for which European countries are fond, and they are doing very well, thanking each other very much. I don't understand what your problem is, but I think it's the fact that you had this opportunity at the time with Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, Klára Dobrev. They wanted to bring this university here, and then they failed, because the Chinese did not want this university to come to Hungary. Most likely because they knew the background, the way politicians were thinking at the time, and they were not considered fit to negotiate further. In this view, however, the Hungarian government has managed to bring such an internationally recognised university to Hungary with the sole aim of raising Hungary's reputation, bringing Hungarian children and young Hungarians into this higher education, and also bringing from abroad, from Europe, from around the world, those who naturally meet the admission requirement. And you're talking about billions of dollars when there's nothing. The Prime Minister said: if you had listened, Mr President, when you answered here at the hour of immediate questioning and said that you were still in the process of planning. We don't have any numbers yet. And I will say again that you did not pay attention to what is stated in the summary of the Legislative Committee, that December 31st is the deadline until the government has committed itself to inform Parliament about the number issues relating to the university investment, which it is obvious that both designers and the budget will put together the relevant and invited experts, and that they will put it on the Parliament's table with full responsibility. I would just like to continue to argue that I would be very proud if this Student City were to be realized, if the terrible, terrible area that belongs to the centre of Budapest, the heart of the capital, while talking about an area that is a disgrace to the city, and which would be practically a world-class university student city that could be reached not only by Budapest students but also by rural students from anywhere in Hungary. You don't talk about how much tuition is going to cost. Then, obviously, the government will work out how many scholarships will be awarded to students, Hungarian students, who have reached the opportunity to apply for admissions and got into the university, and we will do everything we can to ensure that these students can bring their best knowledge, and we will be proud of them when they take the diploma into their hands. I wish with all my heart that this university would be realized and that Hungary could be added to the list where researchers, academic artists and performers who travel around the world come to Hungary, interestingly they happen elsewhere, somewhere else they are proud to meet them in the university sphere, and for some reason in Hungary, the left is simply sorry about this for some reason. And I think that this is very unworthy to express such an opinion on a higher education institution here in the House of the country, and to spread it in Budapest, by deceiving the people of Budapest, which I think is a terrible thing, and that is your responsibility. Thank you.
u2021-06-14-304	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak within the given timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Schanda, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. I'll inform you that you have a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-305	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I promise I will not take advantage of the time frame available, but I do think it is important that there are no sentences left in the air that could give rise to misunderstanding. On the one hand, I would like to make it clear and clear to Mr Csárdi that we have constantly and consistently kept to the agreements we have concluded. It is clear and clear that, by the way, the presentation presented at a former Budapest Public Development Council, when the issue of Student City came up, was clear. We want Student Town, University City. We were talking about a university town then, and, Congressman, you can understand it precisely by the rules of the Hungarian language, that without university it is quite unthinkable. Even without a student, it is relatively unthinkable, honourable Member, so we cannot be accused of breaking any previous agreement. If anyone can be accused of that, it's you, by the way. You are the ones who have started a political hysteria because of your own momentary, provincial political interest from an important professional question concerning the future of young Hungarians. You will be very ashamed of this for years and decades, honourable Member, I only hope that you will not make it impossible to complete successful developments. It could also be a legitimate question, or a legitimate question, that in previous plans we have talked a lot about it here in Parliament, too, the placement of Fudan and Student City looked different. We switched these plans. But, Congressman, we have said this many times that we did not do this willingly, because of you! [[Antal Csárdi: We asked for it!?]] You asked for it. [[Antal Csárdi laughs.]] Mayor Baranyi and Mayor of Christmas have made it clear that otherwise they do not support this case. They do not support this case, so we, who believe in the case of Student City, and we, who believe in the issue of strengthening Hungarian higher education, which is part of our view of bringing the world's best universities to Hungary, were obliged to change the two areas, so that the development of colleges in municipal, capital and state areas, while the development of universities could take place in the areas of the state. But all this time, we have consistently said that this is not how we planned it. It was you, it was you, it was you, it was you, it was you, it was you, it was you, it was you, it was you, it was you, [[Turning to Antal Csárdi:]] You can laugh, Congressman, you can laugh, but you should feel sorry for yourself. It was you who caused this situation. It is also impossible that, when we are talking about the fact that if you have caused this situation by your political hystericalism, we are also in favour of a referendum, and you are questioning the seriousness of this over and over again. [[21.20]] We believe in the Hungarian people, and we believe that the referendum is a good and useful tool, by the way. On numerous occasions, the Hungarian people have stood up for the politics of the national civilian government, otherwise against your left-wing policy in the institution of the referendum. We believe that this issue is a question that can really be decided in a referendum, but at a time and at a time when a realistic decision can be taken. And this is when there are plans ready to go through because of your business, and we have the plans, and you can see exactly how much these plans will cost, what benefits this development has, and what price it has, and then you can make a decision about it. This is the situation that we want to bring to bear, and you are also attacking, honourable Member. The other thing I'm responding to is that the whole debate is really unworthy, but, Congressman, reality is going to come up against you one day. So you may still believe about your left-wing fresh allies and the various branch teams of Ferenc Gyurcsány that they would not otherwise be communists, but I have some bad news that they are the successors of communists and communists. And, honourable Member, it is not worth deceiving yourself that you would not otherwise have conspired with the old left. You joined forces with the old Left, the old Communists and the new Left and the new Communists, with whom you were even in a party at the same time. That is the case, honourable Member. Therefore, to attack us, to attack the civil national parties, which are based on serious and genuine anti-communist foundations, because the anti-communist party greater than Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party has since the history of the Hungarian regime change [[Antal Csárdi: Ask Fat...!]] I've never had one. If someone did their best to change the regime, [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] The Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party. Congressman, that's the thing. Reality with you... (Antal Csárdi interrupts.) Reality will come up against you. Honourable Congressman, It should also be clear and clear, and a last sentence about this is only to the second comment that party secretaries were in higher education institutions, not under the national civilian government, but under the left-wing governments and the communist regime. So this type of accusation is unworthy. And by saying, by the way, that one of the best universities in the world is doing ideological training, they are issuing a certificate of poverty for themselves, that is the case, honourable Member. They issue a certificate of poverty for themselves when a higher education institution, one of the best in the world, starts to abuse and try to flush it down to your petty party policy goals. I did not fully understand the suggestion made by Congressman Hajdu. As I understand it, you're pushing for the 15th. Otherwise, we should take Fudan University to the district, or that there are areas of development. It was not entirely clear that the Member was speaking against development or in favour of development. I wouldn't be surprised at that, and I would think it would be a real local patriot attitude if, by the way, you were to initiate the transfer of the university to the 15th grade. Circumference. It wasn't quite clear to me what he was trying to imply. But I can absolutely agree with you, and we also underline this at such a late hour, that cooperation with China, the Chinese economy, research and development in China, the Chinese knowledge industry is an important issue, and I am pleased that when this is confirmed from the benches of the Democratic Coalition, from the party which, by the way, attacked Chinese vaccines the loudest, which protect the lives and health of over a million Hungarians in these moments. But I am pleased that you have therefore recognised that, from the perspective of the Hungarian future, the Hungarian economy, from the point of view of the stability of Hungarian research and development, it is particularly important for Hungary's security that we are also open to Eastern knowledge and the Eastern economy. Finally, allow me once again to thank Mrs Housekeeper for the detailed presentation of the bill, and also to join her in asking the Honourable Parliament to support tomorrow with their vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Martha Mátrai applauds.]]
u2021-06-14-306	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. [[Antal Csárdi: Come on! I'm so into it.]] We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, DK Group, came forward. I see you're surprised, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Varga would have followed, but he is not in the Chamber, so I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2021-06-14-307	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, I brought the subject from my constituency: I would like to talk about something quite simple, the local patriots XV. His district activity, local patriotism. The district I represent consists of the three of Rákospalota, Pestújhely and New Palace. This means that they were created in three types of historical periods, have three types of culture, have a tradition, and local patriots are the creators of these traditions. Thus there are around 100 civil society organisations, pension clubs, lobby organisations and traditionalists, which are not formalised. There is also an association of district local patriots, which, at the time of its establishment, has already set out to establish and hand over to three of the best local patriots in the district each year, which is to be recommended by the citizens of the district, and not in one case up to a hundred for this award. Here is the role of local patriots, which is also an alliance, to keep active local patriot civil society organisations together as an umbrella organization, to vote together on who will be the local patriot of the district. This is now announced in the 15th edition. in the district. In the last year, a pastor, a senior kindergarten teacher and the president of a sports club received it, without debate, for so long, decades of service and local performance. Another feature of local patriots is that many local events cannot be carried out without them, they themselves organize separate events, and can be said to act against anything that violates good taste. And, of course, we have doubts. There are those who refuse to go out from their private life to local affairs for a few hours, or not to mention a couple of nights or a Saturday-Sunday or a national holiday, but also that on Facebook, Messenger or some other place, all these things are criticized from outside, from outside society, and we also have to look at them. It was recently the day of national cooperation, and just these skeptics, who, by the way, miss such things, did not appear, did not bring a flower, although they were publicly advertised to arrive, to come. There are actions where we go together, and the parks are fixed, and playgrounds are not there. [[21.30]] But they are there when there is something to be criticized, namely the local, say, municipal leader, or some entrepreneur who is trying to do something for the district. It is true that they do not mention the fact that the municipality is in the middle of a slump, and how much money is withdrawn, which appears in the pothole roads, appears in the absence of the renovation of the sidewalks, in many cases without the collection of waste. They don't say much about that. Of course, they tell us that the left is preparing for a pre-election, that they make fun of it, or that Balázs Barkóczi, the spokesman for DK, is one of the pre-election candidates there, who is currently living, let's say, not in the district, although he will be a district resident in a few days, he is the "Collection" and everyone has a word for such counter-local patriots. I think that the most important thing to forget is that fortunately, a good community is formed when many people feel they own the district, who feel like district patriots, feel like their own country, Pestújhely, Rákospalota, New Palace, and I think that I have brought these thoughts here for what they have done. Thank you for doing this for your district. Thank you for the floor.
u2021-06-14-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Anett Bősz, DK Group also applied for a post-meeting speech:. Greetings to health care workers and social workers in the Érden and the region! It's an address. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2021-06-14-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The third wave is over, and it is important to look back at the good things, because we have several compatriots who have given us a lot of money. We find them primarily among health and social workers, but there were also many small entrepreneurs and larger people who were ready to do so in the first wave of the epidemic in order to relieve the pain of the most, whether it be our old countrymen trapped in quarantine, those who were cared for at home by family members or those who became contact persons, and so could not go shopping themselves. But the elderly and those who were socially in need, where, for example, a seeker fell out of the family and needed immediate help, so I really must say that Érd showed his most beautiful face in the first wave. In order to look at health care workers, in particular, in the Romics László Health Institute, in the Tárnok Ház, Sóskút, Pusztazamor, Diósdon, Törökbálint, in the general medical clinics, health care workers have performed in a superhuman capacity for which they have the highest respect. The vaccination points are still being vaccinated, although mass vaccination is currently over in our country, at least as far as this wave is concerned, but I have to say that it is not enough once or twice to remember that even at the Turkish Bálint lung hospital, the designated parking places set up, the unscrupulous care, the undetected encouraging smiles, the moments when, say, some kind of chaos struck its head, and then the military workers who served there, in cooperation with health care professionals, fought to barely notice something of this, us patients who applied for vaccination, well, if anything, then it was a huge thing. Indeed, there is a lack of tenseness to the seriousness of the situation, coupled with discipline, and a humanity in which I believe we felt that this virus did not really choose, we really are for each other, and we do have fellow countrymen who have devoted their time solely to serving our fellow countrymen, not just in recent years, but probably throughout their lives, and for that we should thank them. It is also a thank-you to the women in charge, who, by the way, carried out the service without delay. Whether it is the little brothers with whom the cradle came big brother, even in a temporary place, they were provided, helped the big brothers to play a little while while they were tending to the little ones, helped the pregnant ones, helped those who were first parent mothers, and really ran smoothly in all the Érden and surrounding areas. As far as the social worker is concerned, there is a great deal of respect and gratitude for the fact that the care has not stopped for a moment, and I must even say that the extra needs of the local authorities, which resulted from the increasing number of people losing their jobs or even temporarily being impossible as entrepreneurs, are not for a moment, even though the funding has been in a very difficult situation, homelessness has not stopped, the care of the elderly has not stopped, nor has the care of the needy stopped. This was also a huge thing in the region and region of Érden, and I believe that the social worker has also performed a service that we can be proud of. Finally, we need to talk about civilians who have never seen anything like this, and I believe that none of us have seen such a pandemic, at least not in my generation. Small and large moved, vegetable and bakers moved, and said that I put these compartments aside so that anyone who can't buy fruit and vegetables now should have something on his table at Easter, and that he should have something to eat tomorrow, and that he should have a buns, and that he should have bread. I'm saying that I've had my hat off to you, and thank you very much for this experience here for the past year and a half. I really think it was good to be in Érden, it was good to be an Érdé, it was good to look around and say that we could count on each other. Although I'm not gonna get my second shot at Turkish Ballin in a long week's time, I think I can say that, as far as possible, we all felt safe, and if anything, it's huge in a pandemic. Thank you again, and I am pleased to be able to say goodbye to this parliamentary season. Thank you for listening.
u2021-06-14-310	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address with the title of the stakes of the election. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-311	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This September we will have a pre-election, a pre-election, with the stakes being the selection of the best candidates; the selection of those who can defeat the Fidesz candidate in 2022 in a fight against one. With the support of Jobbik, LMP and the Hungarian Movement, I have the honour of running in Somogy County 3rd Constituencies to represent the people of Somogy. I'm gonna play this game with all my might, because the people of Somogy deserve more than they're getting right now; more attention, more opportunities, more salaries, more pensions, and a better future, and less unrequited promises, and the meaningless, pompous answers. Fidesz had 11 years to make Hungary and Somogyország flourish, but this failed. Let us not debate the positive results, because they were like this, but the welfare of Hungary could not be created; however, the well-being of some privileged ones was all the more. Personally, I am deeply sorry for this, and I ask why they could not exercise power for the common good. But not only do I have questions, but also the citizens of Somogy who don't have the opportunity to ask you questions. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to ask them their questions. The answer is that if the country has been liberated from the epidemic by the 133 bravest people of Fidesz, then what else does the Government of Viktor Orbán still need full authority. Sándor asks you why the catching up of the Polish region is not one of your goals. Emese doesn't understand why the law was revoked that the percentages could earn one-and-a-half times the minimum wage per month, and why it took away the hope of recovering from those who were among the most vulnerable. József asks about Balatonmariafürdő, what about the hospital in Marcal? Who wants to go to Kaposvár for a test? Well, that would also be good to know, and in all likelihood, to those who still refuse to give back the independence of the hospital in Marcal. You don't understand why they don't care about foster parents, why they don't give them any help. [[21.40]] Mónika is right to ask about Balatonfenyves why the ticket to soccer-Eb for foreign people is equal to protection, while Hungarian people are not subject to these rights, and if a full-house Eb match can be held, why the discriminatory restrictions with the protection certificate are no longer removed. I asked a similar question today at the Parliament, but Parliamentary Secretary Retvári did not answer. In essence, all he said was, as an encouragement, that everyone should be vaccinated. She wants to know about Siófok, that they have thought about the fact that if they spend on Hungarian people the money they spend on their own buddies, what quality country could we have? That is exactly what I was talking about at the beginning of my speech, and it seems that I am not the only one who is disturbed by what they are doing. And finally, Adam asks about Balatonkeresztúr, how he was preparing for the 2022 competition, because people are preparing for it, because they feel that the country is ripe for change. And we can achieve change with a successful primary, after which we can compete as a team in the hope of a better future. This is therefore at stake in the elections, and also that in the future we will have answers to our fair and fair questions and solutions to our problems. Don't forget, we're a force together. Thank you for your attention.
u2021-06-14-312	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, the Jobbik Group, also came forward after the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Georges-Louis Leclerc, Count of Buffon, XVIII. 100th-century French scientist said that the style is the man himself. László Kövér has been thrown at my head several times either from the ministerial benches, or from the presidential pulpit, when he said that I did not speak of Kaleta in a heightened style, the aberrated pedophile monster, or the last time, Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy, when I wrote about the backward increase in wages of servants at public companies. It would be very good to have this style issue raised from the pro-government benches to the great parasites of NER, let us say, an Estonian dealer from the 47 million Mercedes SUV, but the Hungarian reality is rarely met by a good man, or by the 160 million-dollar Philippe Patek watch on the sailboat, let us say, as a propaganda guru. And then I didn't even tell you about the biggest one, he's the nation's gassy, whose pre-crisis assets were estimated at HUF 407 billion by Forbes magazine, and then after a slight wavering, it's now over HUF 455 billion. So, in fact, we are facing a HUF 48 billion increase in wealth over a year. Let's divide this by 365. 131 million forints per day. Let's divide it by 24. Five and a half million forints an hour. Let's divide it by 60. This man's blessing comes out to 91,000 forints per minute. Let's see what they're worth then, and what style rural workers, rural workers can afford there, in my narrower Patria, in South Somogy. We can ask what workman's worth if he's a softie. The fact is that the province of multinationals and the oligarchs of NER, let's just say, have also degraded quite little in Hungary into some kind of feudal rulership. If you look at the fact that, say, the Slovak minimum wage now circles the Hungarian in net terms and in euros with HUF 70,000, if you look at the fact that the Romanian average wage, the hourly wage, has been paid, and has already been slightly ahead of the Hungarian, then I think that what I said will be supported from the statistical side as well. But no wonder, it was Viktor Orbán himself who tried to lure Arab investors here in Saudi Arabia years ago, how cheap Hungarian labour is compared to his quality and how flexible the labour code is. Please, this is the embodiment of sociopathic, social-destructive, neoliberal philosophy. That's what we don't want. Let's keep looking. In South Somogy's three district headquarters, the net average monthly wage is around 170 thousand forints, and there are 15 out of 77 settlements where the average monthly wage is less than 100 thousand forints due to the many public workers. So 100,000 forints, that's what you're making, or that's how much you've actually grown every minute, Lőrinc Mészáros in the last year. So, this is the dolce debate that's up there, it's pouring down, and the thing is, respect for the exception, but some narcissistic or sociopathic employers with psychopathic personality traits are using the workers there as some sort of eviscerable and skin-removal labor animals. This is not what serves Hungarian national interests. Low wages will result in low pensions. There it is, say, Aunt Panni of Grandpa, who worked 40 years. He will bring home 94 thousand forints a month, and now he will receive 564 forints compensation on a monthly basis. Of these 40 years, he spent 28 years in the Laundromat at the Nagyatád hospital, and in order to supplement this miserable pension, he still goes on cleaning. And if we're in style, maybe it's XIII. Pope Leo will not be a sort of scandal stone in the pro-government benches, when he stated in his 1891 Rerum novorum that it is ugly and inhumane to use workers as a means of profit. This would be the philosophy that should be accepted there in the pro-government benches [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and that is why it would have been useful if the proposals for amending the budget were adopted in the interests of rural workers such as those living in South Somogy. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Go South Somogy!
u2021-06-14-314	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Varga, DK Group, also spoke after the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2021-06-14-315	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, just because I want to talk about Debrecen again. You know, the town with a library of literature from the fidesz horse-zung. We've been there, but I think you all know that. In recent decades, my beloved city has been best known as the guard city of Fidesz, and of course, we have also become the alternative capital of Fidesz, and of course, only after common sense once again triumphed in Budapest, and of course the dictatorship of Orbán and the cynical rule of Tarlos failed. And that's when, in fact, the government party's brain exploded, and the runaway ship cannon is trying to turn Debrecen into some kind of insane communication weapon. It turns out that you, honourable pro-government representatives, are most likely to have already recreated Budapest from their own maps, perhaps even sprinkled its place with salt, already in Debrecen to build everything. They'd move us here, as we hear, a ministry, a museum, anything that can be moved, whether it makes sense or not. On the one hand, because they want to punish Budapest, the Budapest voters, and on the other hand they think that Debrecent is the city of Lajos Kósa, where anything can be done. And the Orbáns believe that you and Debrecen, the people of Debrecen, can do anything. They're privy to the best land on the city's border. I must add that we are not only talking about the best land in the city, but we are talking about the best land in the country, where they will want to build a BMW factory. I have to add, this factory is still standing, not being built, but the price of spending a billion dollars in starry skies. What the average debrecen experiences during the construction process is the unspeakable amount of dust, the closures, and we are forced to acknowledge the skyrocketing real estate and rent prices. Today, Debrecen has become the gateway to the unscrupulous politicians and oligarchs of Fidesz. From Szijjárto to Lőrinc Mészáros, everyone here is handing over something, cutting through some national ribbon, it doesn't matter what we're talking about. It doesn't matter what it is, because Debrecent is considered the perfect field, and the Fidesz leaders of the city are considered the perfect extra for their own little political performances. [[21.50]] And that's probably how you guys came up with the stupid idea of moving to Debrecen to the Natural History Museum, moving everything. Of course, we Debrecen know very well that in the end he will not move here, but this is all good for Minister Palkovics to be able to shine himself, the government and, of course, the Prime Minister at least a few times in Debrecen. As it turned out, the former mayor and Pandanja of Debrecen, the mayor of Debrecen, László Papp does not bother the least that the city and its inhabitants drink the government's stupid and idiotic communication plan, the anti-Budapestism of the government and Viktor Orbán, that although money does not or hardly arrive in the city, propaganda is all the more about Debrecen, that the city has a mad high concentration of dust, as I said before, not only in winter, but also in summer, that our roads are barely accessible, because there are so many potholes in it that a cyclist is swallowed up or when it is repaired, then the potholes become mountains, and this is practically the break of the axles of cars. People living in gardens and outskirts, I don't have to say, they tax exactly the same as those living in luxury parks, with so much difference that they have little bus access, no paved roads, no sidewalks, no trench, practically nothing; they have no rights, only obligations. And I could list for days the anomalies that in the least make Debrecen what you'd like to introduce her to as the gem or alternative capital of the Fidesz government. And now the latest, well connected propaganda news is that the Orbán course will build in Debrecen the Chinese spy training, the Fudan University, designed for Budapest, but rightfully rejected, driven away and indignant. Of course, we Debrecen know that there will be no Fudan University here, as we also know that the program of modern cities has failed, that the D2030 program does not work. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's a lie and a cheap propaganda, but it's okay, in 2022, we're gonna put Debrecent back where he belongs. [[The president's ringing again.]] A map of Europe. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Jobbik.]]
u2021-06-14-316	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work; the Parliament will resume its meeting at 8 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
