u2021-05-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 23rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. First, I give the floor to the Head of the Szabó Timea Group, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2021-05-25-1	Dear mask, goodbye! Orbán said a few days ago, before he greasy-mouthed himself to an unfortunate wedding couple. The Prime Minister has lifted a series of epidemiological measures with this uppercut, but somehow one thing has not been mentioned in this list: if there is no mask, then why is the government maintaining the emergency? We can talk about all kinds of epidemiological measures and struggles here, but we know exactly what this is about: Viktor Orbán is maintaining the emergency so that he can steal and sell the country to the Chinese Communist Party without disturbing any opposition protests. This week, Parliament will begin to discuss the government's proposal on the establishment of the Fudan University in China, which is pure treason. Viktor Orbán, with the Fidesz-KDNP behind his back, will create a Chinese elite university in Hungary, which will be built with Chinese workers and Chinese materials for 540 billion HUF. Of these 540 billion forints, 450 billion forints are Chinese loans, and 90 billion forints are from Hungarian taxpayers' money at the beginning. Orbán takes 450 billion loans to a university founded by the Chinese Communist Party. Do you know how much Viktor Orbán spends on full Hungarian higher education this year? 453 billion forints. HUF 453 billion for full Hungarian higher education and HUF 450 billion for a university founded by the Chinese Communist Party. Orbán spends the same amount on full Hungarian higher education as a University of the Chinese Communist Party. There are only two ways to subjugate a nation: with a sword or debt, Viktor Orbán said this to an Austrian newspaper in 2011. Now, ten years later, this is exactly how Viktor Orbán conquers his own country. This is pure treason! The area in Budapest where Orbán wants to build the Chinese university was originally designed for Hungarian students [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Beekeeper.]] affordable housing, a student town. In 2019 the government signed a written agreement with Gergely Christmas that turned out that Viktor Orbán had been lying in this case for almost a year and a half. Now, of course, they're explaining that the student town will be this big and this big, but I've got a map of the government in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] which shows exactly how much is available to the Chinese university and how much is available to the Hungarian student city. Red is Chinese, blue is Hungarian student city. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] Well, that's what you give to the Hungarian students, fellow Members. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: This is the shame!]] This is pure treason! You know exactly how insufferable this is for the Fidesz-KDNP, which protested in 1991 before the Chinese embassy against the Chinese Communist dictatorship. It is inconclusive, because since then it has been revealed that there is no great opportunity for Hungarian students, because the tuition fee of the University of Fudan is 2.5 million HUF per year and 3.5 million HUF per master's degree. For that, a Hungarian student can go to your Chinese university in Hungary. This is pure treason! But it doesn't end here: in Chinese university, teachers would pay HUF 1.5 million a month, while in a Hungarian university the average teacher's salary is HUF 300,000. This, my fellow Members, is pure treason! Finally, Fudan University is known to be the Chinese Communist Party's secret agent dump. The Chinese are coming here to legitimize their feet in the European Union, and you and Viktor Orbán are assisting with this smile. This is pure treason! You in Fidesz are indebted to Hungarians for money, taking away students' housing, betraying Hungarian teachers, and turning our own country into a Chinese secret agent dump. You sold your country and your soul to the Chinese Communist Party for 20 silver coins. But Gergely Christmas, the Prime Minister's candidate for Dialogue, MSZP and LMP said that he will not give a single square inch of the Hungarian students' housing area. We say no to Viktor Orbán's Chinese debt, to treason, to the conquest of the Chinese Communist Party in Hungary. Next year there will be a change of government, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, get ready. [[István Szilárd Németh: Don't worry about it! Dr. Bence Rétvári: It was difficult for him to last five minutes! Applause from the opposition.]]
u2021-05-25-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-05-25-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is quite incredible that you stand up here in the National Assembly, and instead of thanking the people involved in the defence, the health workers, those working in order to maintain public order, the Hungarian government's actions, the operation of the operational tribe, you just swipe down, while we have reason to be proud of the performance that Hungary has performed over the past months, over the past year and a half, since the third wave of the epidemic has been broken down, in essence we have defeated. [[13.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The anti-vaccination campaign you conducted failed in this horrific campaign, in this horrific operation, and with the help of the Hungarian people, under the direction of the operational tribe, we managed to carry out the fantastic logistics activity, as a result of which more than five million people are now vaccinated against the corona virus in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This cannot be treated as condescendingly as you did in your speech. It is also quite outrageous that at every stage and every point of the defense, they were busy attacking the defense leaders by attacking health professionals who contributed to the best possible fight against the coronal virus epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In addition, it is such an interesting part of your speech that it does not talk about it, nor does it bring it to the National Assembly, what Hungarians already know: Chinese vaccine protects the lives of more than one million people in Hungary today. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Let us be proud of this, let us be proud of the fact that in Hungary the graft is much, much better [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everyone is a secret agent...]] With the use of Eastern vaccines, we are much, much better off, and we really got our lives back with the time that we managed to inject five million vaccines. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You bring the issue of Fudan University here, which is a serious matter and a serious question. But what's this about? It is about, honourable Member, that we want Hungarian young people to be the winners of the future, which is why the development of universities, higher education in Hungary and the arrival of world-class higher education institutions in Hungary are a matter of national strategy, the 21st century. One of the biggest questions of the century. That is why we are doing everything we can to strengthen Hungarian higher education institutions, and that is why we think that there is a need for the world's leading universities to appear in Hungary. And, honourable Member, we welcome all universities in Hungary that are among the world's leading universities, which are in the top 50 or in the top 100. Moreover, honourable Member, you are misleading the Hungarian public, because the University of Fudan has been operating in Hungary since 2018, and currently has joint training with the Corvinus University of Budapest. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. Szabó Timea: There is no...]] You have not yet attacked this, and now you simply want to make a political issue of an important future issue of higher education. [[Szabó Timea: The Chinese Communist Party...]] I hear you're a communist, I hear you're trying to communicate with us both in your speech and by yelling at us, that's very strange of you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're sitting in that faction. [[Szabó Timea: How does this sentence end?]] You are sitting among those who, by the way, want to bring the Communist Party back to Hungary. [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] You're sitting there, you're sitting on the left, working every day to get the Communists' successor party back in power. And after that, do they have the nerve to ask us to account for it? This is nothing more than political hysteria. [[James Peter intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have made it clear that it is good for young Hungarians and young Europeans that the University of Fudan is coming to Hungary, and we will do so while the student city is also being built. [[Szabó Timea: Aha!]] because our goal is also to create suitable accommodation for young people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-4	Congresswoman! Mrs. Freckles! I've tried everything. [[Szabó Timea: I can see that!]] I promise you, once you're able to be quiet for five minutes to hear the government answer to your speech, I'll give you a bouquet of flowers. Next up is Krisztina Hohn. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-25-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Living near, or at least near, a landfill means something quite different in Germany, Austria, Denmark, and it means something completely different in Hungary. We spend around 100 billion on European taxpayers' money so that fewer and fewer people have to live on risky, stinky landfills that often catch fire. The development of waste management for more than three decades has brought us from over 2,000 landfill countries to waste treatment centres supported by the European Union. An essential part of these facilities is the waste dump, which is the remaining facility, which is not yet usable, but is not suitable for the reception of hazardous waste. [[13.20]] It is a professional fact that landfills can and must be operated in such a way as to protect soil, soil water and avoid pollution of air, stink and greenhouse gases, most of which are methane. If most organic materials are diverted from a landfill or subsequently installed gas wells are installed, they shall ensure that the waste is compressed, the surface is space-saving but still professionally covered, and the resulting gas can be collected. They can use this for electricity generation or burn it, so operators do not cause unbearable smells to people. I ask you, if this is the case, why do many of your stars have to live in vain since 2016 and for five years they have turned to the authorities in vain, but if the wind is bad, they must constantly smell the stench of the landfill. Environmental inspectorates with previously prepared professional guards worked as an independent administrative body. They've been disrupted, reorganized. Their independence, efficiency and professionalism have just ceased. In more and more areas of life, it is apparent that they have virtually ceased to be a factor, they have been in the way of distorted development. How can citizens, citizens, mothers raising their children at home and friends in Europe in 2021 have to confront profit-interested environmental users? Where are the environmental authorities? Why are they not doing their job effectively, decisively, to protect the people in the field of impact? Why isn't anyone helping them? Why don't they want to hear their problem? How much longer do they have to put up with this? What is going on in this country in the field of waste management? Fight? Squeeze it out? Professional degradation? Placed for concession rights, while the environmental authority hasn't given the relevant group of citizens a reasonable level of assistance for five years? In a professionally fundamental, simple, verifiable case, how will there be trust and a willingness to work together to create a circular economy? We know that the treatment of a waste gas is not cheap, it can cost hundreds of millions, but a prepared environmental expert can calculate the amount of gas-producing wells needed in a waste dump, what the composition of the resulting gas is, whether it can be connected to a gas engine, or simply torch the gas to be extracted. I call on the stakeholders, especially the authorities, to check the applied technology point by point, instead of five years of testosterone, the reported smelling of people's reeking landfill, given that it cannot be adequate, specify the exact number of gas wells, the technology to be used, the end-point equipment. In the case of such a system, built-in measuring instruments, factory logs, regular checks and, if necessary, remote monitoring can be carried out without any problems if the environmental user fails to comply with his professional and legal obligations. The authorities have every legal opportunity to do their job effectively. So I'm asking the authorities to do their job, to help the people of Kistarchsa finally solve this matter that has been going on for years, not just public life, but the air that we breathe should be clean. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-05-25-6	Once again, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2021-05-25-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the specific case, I am happy to be of service to you and to discuss professional matters with you. This is neither a political issue nor a political issue. I think, honourable Member, that this is why it is sad that you want to make a political question over and over again from a question that affects our common future, the future of our children. My opinion and our view is that this is a serious mistake. The questions about the environment, the protection of creation must be addressed not with words, not with empty chatter, but with action and real actions and real decisions. Therefore, I must repudiate every time it is necessary to bring to party political level the issues that determine our future in this way and in this weight, as these issues affect all people, whether they are left-wing or national citizens, right-wing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am therefore saddened to remind you that the national civilian government has offered cooperation on these issues, in the same way as in the fight against the epidemic, and unfortunately you have repeatedly refused to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Just to give you a few examples of this, last spring the Parliament adopted the Act on Climate Protection and the Parliament's resolution on non-delaying tasks due to the scale of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and These proposals were submitted by the left. It was submitted by the left, and the left then did not vote for these measures. It was only the common national civil side that supported both the parliamentary decision and the law on climate protection. Which is perhaps even more closely linked to your speech, that during the autumn session we had the opportunity to discuss how it should look. In Hungary, the world of waste management, how to act even harder, even more stringently, against illegal litterers, for example, to create a waste management authority that can deal with issues that you are pushing on about. And what happened, honourable Member? What happened? We brought these proposals to the Parliament, we discussed them, and then you said no. They said no to creating a strict authority and stopping the re-production and re-production of illegal waste. They said no to eliminating illegal deposits that harm the eyes and the environment of all sober Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have created this amendment, and it is also important for this new authority to be created, and we have tightened up the legislative environment in this regard because we believe that a clean country is needed. The image of this pure country is also dealt with in the climate and nature conservation action plan adopted by the government at the beginning of 2020 and which contains all the points and all the directions we need to follow in the area of climate protection and nature conservation. Therefore, in the summer of 2020 we have launched the "Clean the country"! In the framework of this project, we called public organisations, local governments, churches and civil society organisations into partnership to help us on this mission, and they were happy to respond and are happy to participate in this programme. I urge the Congresswoman that you do not attack these measures, but to support and participate in these programmes. This is why we have created the WasteRadar application, which has already been downloaded by thousands of users in Hungary, and many help us with our work on illegal waste. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-8	I now give the floor to Laszlo Varju.
u2021-05-25-9	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I would also like to announce a commitment: if Mr President does not punish my fellow Member, Mr Peter, I will bring you a bouquet of flowers. [[Demercation from opposition parties.]] In the meantime, until this happens or it turns out, I have to say that today all people feel, they know that Hungary is in trouble. We've become a country in the Urizing Orbán system where the Prime Minister's gasman is four times richer than Mick Jagger, with more assets than the British Queen. [[13.30]] Fidesz few are getting greedy, getting richer, while many, millions of Hungarians are increasingly poor and seeing the future as hopeless. Next year's change of government and regime can eliminate the rule of the few, to be replaced by many Hungary. As Klára Dobrev said, our business will be with many who have been abandoned for 12 years. The DK Prime Minister's candidate said something else. For example, he told the story when a family had to go to Grandma's house against all caution and epidemiological advice, because by the end of the month, Grandma had nothing to eat, a man who had been hosting the family for years with a multi-course lunch and cookies. This grandmother called her child, saying that if it's not too much trouble, they should cook a batch of more food this weekend and bring it to her because the pension is not due until next week. By 2021, the Fidesz Party State, the Government of Orbán, brought hundreds of thousands of Hungarian pensioners here. I also took myself to thousands of people without rations, and in the meantime I can see that there is no decent pension increase, but there is a grass sunbathing in the stadium, there is an increasingly expensive hunting exhibition, there is a Chinese university design organized with Hungarian money. The great lords who are ordered by the party state already have the castle, the estate, the land estates or private jets, helicopters, yachts, which they lend, where they treat pro-state fidesz leaders. Wash your hands. Meanwhile, the same urbanist government, building a national middle class, is playing tricks on inflationary pension increases, lying valueless to people who work their lives. This decision is a personal decision made by Viktor Orbán, resulting in three times as many pensioners living in poverty as in 2010. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] We know what led you to such vulnerability. One of the first measures of the Orbán Government was the nationalisation of three million pension savings or the abolition of the Swiss mixed indexation, the method of calculating pensions for left-wing governments. What does that mean? Swiss indexation pensions have not only followed inflation, but also wage increases. If the person who lives on the salary lives better, let us also pay attention to those who have worked through their lives, because this is how many of us stay together, we cry together, we laugh together. But you just have to look at the exchange rate of the forint, which is weaker today than at any time before 2010. All you have to do is look at the brutal price increases in food and medicines, and every pensioner immediately feels the trouble. In vain, the Democratic Coalition demanded that all pensioners be given immediate support during the viral crisis so as not to have to choose between food and medicine. He's been swept off the table because it's not in the interest of the Fidesz brats. The central power of the party state, the many human evils and stupidities, put grandmothers working for the rest of their lives in a position of shame to call their children, that they would no longer be able to eat on the weekend. The heart of Klára Dobrev and DK is the need to make up for the elderly and to re-introduce the Swiss indexation of pensions. We will pay the elderly the 50,000 forints we demanded of them during the epidemic, and we will pay you another 100,000 forints that you pro-government took. According to the decree of the Orbán Government published last Tuesday, the additional pension increase in June is an average of HUF 848 per person, but there are also those involved who receive only HUF 247. Are they really not ashamed? What you do to pensioners is an incredibly selfish, cynical and vile policy of humiliation. The Democratic Coalition [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] Prime Minister's candidate, Dr. Klára Dobrev... [[It's a rare round of applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-25-10	Congressman, your time is up. Please sit down and listen to me for a moment. So, threatening me with unnatural advances is something I can tolerate. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] And this is the last time I'm gonna put up with it. [[Peter James: Jozsi Szájer!]] I have tolerated it without interrupting what you have to say, that you may not have mentioned your name by accident, following your footsteps, in a provocative manner, insulting your fellow Members, but this is the last time I'll allow you to do that. On behalf of the government, Mr. Balázs Orbán will answer.
u2021-05-25-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The civil government concluded an agreement with pensioners in 2010: while this national government is in Hungary, it guarantees the purchasing value of pensions, and as far as the country's capacity allows, it increases pension provision for pensioners in Hungary. In recent years, we have proved that we can keep our word, return the 13th month pension that left-wing governments have taken away from pensioners. If I may, I would like to draw your attention here to a completely different crisis management philosophy, which, at the moment, described the current right-wing government and your former left-wing government and your allies in connection with the global economic crisis in 2008-2009. When there was trouble in 2008-2009, you took me away from people, you took me away from families, you took me away from pensioners, you took me away from businesses. We disagree with this, we disagree with it, and we are not settling our crisis management strategy on this basis. We think that if there is a problem, if there is a difficult time, people should be helped, families should be helped, Hungarian businesses should be helped, and pensioners should also be helped. With regard to pensioners, all of this, as I said, looked like before 2010, the 13th month pension was taken from 2.4 million pensioners during left-wing governments. Between 2006 and 2010, the real value of pensions fell by about 4 percent. This is not a political disagreement between us, it is a fact. During your governance, when there was a crisis, when there was trouble in the country, they pursued a policy that reduced the purchasing value of pensions in Hungary. And then you managed to bring the pension system to the brink of collapse: the Pension Insurance Fund had to be taken over by the Cabinet in 2010 with a deficit of 357 billion. On the contrary, this year, at the moment, the stepwise retirement of the 13th month has begun. In the first year, pensioners and pension recipients received a weekly pension as an additional benefit in February, in a HUF 78 billion item. About 2.1 million pensioners, as well as 400 thousand pensioners. With a step-by-step introduction and climbing, pensioners will receive a full monthly bonus from the Treasury every February from 2024. In addition, the possibility of a pension premium remains. We trust economic growth. International forecasts show that this trust is not unfounded. Special appropriations shall be provided in the central budget for the specific pension premium concerned. Obviously, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by more than 10 percent since 2010 and pensions have increased nominally by 44 percent during this period. Over the past four years, an extra payment of HUF 220 billion has been made in the form of a pension premium, in the form of a voucher for Elizabeth and other vouchers, for example. In the framework of the Women's 40, more than 299 thousand women could retire after 40 years of entitlement until the end of December 2020. And then let's not forget the multiple reductions, also saved noticeable amounts of money with the help of pensioners, which is also important, I think. This is also totally against the policy that you carried out before 2010. If you don't mind, one more remark, this coronal virus epidemic thing on my part, because it's the retired age group, the elderly who fought the most and were rightfully afraid of the health effects of the coronal virus epidemic that has been hit most by this epidemic. If you take this into account, then the anti-vaccination campaign that you have been conducting over the past few months is outrageous and extremely irresponsible. If it were up to you, there would be two million fewer people vaccinated in Hungary today, among which there would be a very large number of elderly people, pensioners. So you're not only endangering your livelihood for the oldest generation in general when you're in government position, but also your life and your human health. If you are talking about a pension increase, Hungarian pensioners know exactly that it means a pension reduction. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] No one's gonna sit up for you. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[13.40]]
u2021-05-25-12	I now give the floor to the representative of the MSZP, Tamás Bellozó.
u2021-05-25-13	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, There are indeed two worlds in Hungary: there are 99 percent of the worlds who work with their heads down every day, try to make a living, and pay taxes, for example, to have a budget, and to have where to spend the money, there are students and young people who want to learn in Europe's most chaotic education system, or even pensioners who are forced to live from one of Europe's least pensions in this country; and there is one percent, the Fidesz politicians, their friends, their family, their relatives, the NER knights, to whom this budget money and EU funds reach a hundred billion numbers, and who do not even know what they are doing in this country. And why does this matter come before Parliament? Because, fellow Members, here at the end of the session, they have again stepped up their efforts to use this building and this institution to further divide this country so that public money is not transferred to where it belongs, but to friends. This is the amendment to this year's budget, which we will vote on tomorrow, where they will give themselves a free hand with a trick of 1700 billion forints to put public money on the right and left before the election. This is also the budget for next year, which I will specifically address. This is also the $500 billion investment by Fudan University this week, or even the dissipation of the student city. Such is their scandalous bill of tenements, in which they are about to take out HUF 800-900 billion of state and municipal property, which is a sin, not a mistake. Or just like the renegotiation of the Russian loan. Ladies and gentlemen, About next year's budget: it's not like stew sauce, so you can make a little joke about it, and then wash it in the washing machine and make it disappear. This budget for next year will determine the lives of millions of people living in our country, and not only what is in it, but what is not. I'm sure you'll be aware, if you don't, I'll tell you, according to the survey we just carried out in the area of law enforcement, 70 percent of those working in the field of law enforcement would be discharged if they could, because they're banned by law, and the emergency may not have been extended by accident because of low pay and working conditions. No wonder their basic salary hasn't increased by a penny since 2008. And the same is the case in health care, in vain they want to sweep it under the carpet: also because of the emergency, people cannot quit, but we know that a lot of nurses and doctors are preparing for this, once this is over, and that this country cannot lose more people in the field of health. And so is education, ladies and gentlemen, which Márius Révész described as the most chaotic education system in Europe, but he also said, I quote literally, that teachers' salaries are particularly low in Hungary. Do you think there is a substantial wage increase for teachers in the next year's budget that can be shown in any way? I'll help you: no. But this is also the situation of pensioners, as has already been mentioned today. On 1 June, you have the picture of raising pensions by HUF 890, when you are just learning that Europe's biggest inflation is 5.1 percent in Hungary, and agricultural raw materials have increased by 13 percent, which in the first round will obviously show up in the newer and newer food price rise. And so is the case of hardworking little people. This term has been somewhat forgotten over the past few years, honourable Members, you know, the foundations of a work-based society who refused to vote for the abolition of minimum wage. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The abolition of minimum wage?]] And a penny is not provided for this, for example, in next year's budget. With a single pen stroke, net wages could increase by almost a quarter for more than a million people, hardworking little people in Hungary. This would cost the budget 200-250 billion forints. Is this a long time, fellow Members? Well, think about it on Thursday, when you will argue here about the 500 billion-dollar loan from Fudan University, which will cost Hungarian taxpayers a hundred thousand forints each in the future. Ask the hardworking little people how we have a hundred thousand forints for this Chinese university, because they're going to pay it back in tax form! Fellow Members! You divided this country in two, on a political and ideological basis; we see the left-winging and all that. That's not a problem, because next spring, the kind voters will be able to close this issue with two straight, intersecting lines. But for the past 12 years, you have divided this country in financial terms, in terms of living, no, fifty-fifty, not even 60:40, but 99:1, and this is a next one. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] our government, hopefully led by Gergely Christmas, will be corrected by its recovery policy. Thank you so much for listening.
u2021-05-25-14	State Secretary András Tállai will respond. I give you the floor.
u2021-05-25-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The two kinds of thinking that appear in the National Assembly also emerge from your speech: yours, the left, who have already dealt with a crisis and proved that they are not competent; they have destroyed the country, the country's economic performance has been reduced, economic growth has not increased for years, but the biggest problem is that the number of unemployed people has increased for years, from 2007 to 2010 and, unfortunately, even in 2011, some 150 to 200 thousand unemployed people have unfortunately been created in the country in connection with your crisis management. You now stand up here and criticize both this year's and next year's budgets. The change in the 2021 budget is necessary to ensure that the resources needed to protect people's lives, to treat them, were needed to overcome the crisis as quickly as possible. This is not a small sum, as it is an extraordinary sum, more than a thousand billion forints, which is needed to protect people's lives. During your crisis management, you didn't have to deal with this, you were supposed to save the economy, but you didn't. The need for this year's revision of the budget and the next year's budget are characterised by both saving the economy and restarting it. The serious resources needed to reboot, more than 7,000 billion forints, will have to be mobilised next year to bring the country back to its growth path, the calm, quiet, existential, family-specific path. This requires a different kind of budget than before. This is the other kind of budget that characterizes the 2022 budget. We also think about rebooting in a completely different way. You thought that the more unemployed you will be, the more money you give to the unemployed, the better things will be, the better things will be; and we believe that jobs should be supported, on the one hand, the preservation of jobs, and, on the other hand, the creation of new jobs at this difficult time, because instead of jobs that will disappear as a result of technological progress, we need to create a new one. Of course, there are sectors that have seriously affected the epidemic, such as service sectors, mainly catering and hotels. It is clear that these sectors must be able to provide direct direct support, tax incentives and other support beyond wage support in order to reopen and re-establish their capacity as they did before the economic crisis. As far as pensioners are concerned, I think that an MSZP or I don't even know what it's like anymore, I can't exactly follow it, DK or dialogue representative. [[Intercoms, noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Speaking in such a case to criticise the current government for raising pensions is completely incomprehensible, since the Fidesz government has always ensured the real value of pensions since 2010, there has always been a higher rate of pension increases than inflation has not done in any year of their governance. You have taken the 13th month pension away from pensioners, and the current government will rebuild it. [[13.50]] You told me about the divided country. You just split the country into two, and I'll give you an example: your anti-vaccination. If they take on this one thing and stand behind the government and help to get the vaccine in the country as quickly as possible [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] we wouldn't be doing this economically or medically. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-16	Now it's James Peter's turn.
u2021-05-25-17	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! In 2018, Viktor Orbán said in the European Parliament, I quote: "We would never hesitate to silence those who disagree with us. And then last week, László Fat has turned off my microphone for a long time and...
u2021-05-25-18	Congressman!
u2021-05-25-19	... I've been punished this time [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] Nearly ten million forints, just because it's...
u2021-05-25-20	Congressman, listen to me again, please. The other day, I told you to hire an expert. [[Péter Jakab: But this is a genre of debate, Mr President. Before the schedule!]] If you have any problems with understanding who will explain it to you... please be quiet. [[Peter James: May I stay?]] Who will explain to you that, according to the rules of the house, you can't criticize the sitting. It's so obviously written in black and white... [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] written down in the house rules that can't be misunderstood. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Let's not joke.]] I know you deliberately provoke us here week after week. I also understand... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Peter James: Did they teach this in the KIS?]] The rest of you, please, don't be a pain in the ass. So I also understand, Mr. Group Leader, that you want to bring the bartenders into the joint as a contribution. I understand everything... [[Peter James: But I don't stink, Mr. President. That's not me!]] I understand everything, but I'm asking you... [[Peter James: I don't hustle, I don't hustle! That's not me!]] I'm asking you to be quiet, one. Two, how do you understand that you can't insult anyone in this House? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Unbiased session guide!]] and can't criticize the sitting. If you can do that, you can continue with what you have to say. [[Rumors and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik: Rule of the House! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Unbiased session guide!]] If you don't, I'll take the floor from you again, and in the next thirty-three cases, I'll always do this, no matter what you do. I'll give you back the floor now. Try to do so calmly, calmly, without insulting, without criticizing the sitting. [[Rumors and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] You don't have the floor either. You don't have the floor, Congressman. You don't have the floor. You can't yell at me. This isn't the pub he goes to with such love. This House! [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: But it's not allowed!]] Congressman, continue what you have to say if you can. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from Jobbik: Long live the party!]]
u2021-05-25-21	Long live the party! Yay! It's all MSMP! May I continue?
u2021-05-25-22	I gave you the floor again. Yes!
u2021-05-25-23	Well, then, Mr. President, whatever you do, you will never be able to silence me under any circumstances! [[György Szilágyi: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] You can turn off my microphone, punish me for ten million... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2021-05-25-24	I turned it off. Congressman, you don't understand what I'm saying. We're moving on! Have a seat. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] It's time for Congressman László Szászfalvi. [[Grumbles and interrogations from Jobbik's ranks: You are gone! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Now, Mr. Speaker, is this really the way?]] Congressman, I've taken the floor from you. [[James Peter: But for what?!]] Up that way... I've made it very clear that I've explained it to you... I have clearly explained to you that in the house rules, [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's listed in... [[Péter Jakab: What kind of vocabulary can I use in my Hungarian native language?!]] Relax. I hope the gentlemen aren't drinking yet. I hope they're not drinking yet, so they can still be cool. It's in the house rules. [[Peter James: May I continue?]] You can't... you can't go on, you can listen to me. [[Peter James: I am paid to continue!]] It's in the house rules. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] That you can't criticize the sitting. There's nothing else I can do. Congressman, you're putting me in that position. [[It's constant noise.]] That I have no choice but to take the floor from you. You can try again next week. And now for Congressman László Szászfalvi. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Peter James: See you soon!]]
u2021-05-25-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, [[The representatives of the Jobbik faction are leaving the meeting room. György Szilágyi: But you can't answer it!]] We believe there are no coincidences. So it is no coincidence that we could say together at Pentecost that we succeeded. We were able to experience a quiet but extremely joyful event, filled our hearts with a liberated soul at Pentecost, with gratitude, thanks and joy, because together we managed to overcome the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic with the help of the Caretaker. We have reached this point among the first in Europe, so we need to stop for a few minutes and thank you first. Most of all thanks and thanks for the strength with which hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary worked for the health, safety and life of the Hungarian people, day and night for many months. We thank healthcare workers, soldiers, police officers, government employees, teachers, trade, service workers, logistics professionals and everyone else for doing their job in a quiet, persistent but firm and determined way. Thank you to the overwhelming majority of Hungarian people who have received this extraordinary situation with patience and understanding, and have helped the sacrifices of decision-makers and professionals. Dear Parliament, Sadly, however, there were few loud ones who did not only support the common defence, but rather attacked it. The left-wing opposition with false news, false videos, lying death campaign and anti-vaccination throughout the whole round world to quote classics in an unprecedented manner, using all means, has constantly attacked and discredited those working to protect the Hungarian people. They spilt hatred, aroused hatred at the very moment when in the middle of a pandemic, according to the rules of common sense, everyone should unite and assist in this crucified work. None of the governments in any other country had to do their job in such opposition and against such artificially aroused hate tsunamis. The left-wing opposition has done nothing concrete, meaningful for the Hungarian people, but everything for its own petty party policy goals. With the greatest restraint, and even in the civilized framework, you can only say this: shame and shame! Dear House, On the contrary, despite all the discrediting and lying campaigns, at Pentecost we crossed the five million - year - old vaccine population in our country. Hungary is at the forefront in Europe in terms of grafting. Together we succeeded again, we broke the third wave of the plague. This is a historic result, a joint success, and we must be able to appreciate and rejoice together the results of our joint efforts, because only with this shared experience can we continue to work for Hungarian people and Hungarian families. And how much more joyful and elevated this common joy could be if the left had at least constructively taken part in the work at the time of the emergency. According to the decision of professionals and the government, Pentecost 2021 is a turning point, and we can continue opening with radical positive changes. The following measures have been put in place: the curfew has ceased, the opening hours of shops and restaurants have ceased, compulsory masking has ceased in public areas, sport is free in public areas, private and family events can be held with 50 participants, and weddings can be held without restrictions until 200 persons participate in the weddings. Dear Parliament, The latest epidemiological data are very encouraging: the number of new infected people has fallen below 200 per day, and the number of people dying from the virus's complications is falling every day. But it is still necessary to follow the rules and restrictions that remain in force, as the virus is still among us, and millions of people have not yet been vaccinated. Dear House, Thank God. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] We did it again together! Thank you, Hungary! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-26	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-05-25-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, if we compare the performance of individual health systems worldwide from the last few months, we can see that we owe all Hungarian nurses, all Hungarian doctors, all those involved in Hungarian defences, whether police, military or any other professional, a very big thank you. After all, what did we see day after day, and what did we read week after week? In other countries, patients were cured in hospital parking lots, and hotels were converted into hospitals because the health system was so under load. They were breathing in cars, breathing in their own cars, because, let alone in the hospital wards, there wasn't room in the hospital halls. There were countries where hospital dining rooms were remodeled and patients were cured. These countries are all much richer and richer than we are, yet they have not been able to defend themselves sufficiently against the coronal virus epidemic. [[14.00]] In France, even cancer patients had to be stopped because the health system was so under strain during the coronal virus epidemic. There were many countries where doctors from abroad were invited, nurses from abroad, or patients were transferred abroad because their own health system could not cope with the strain. In Hungary, all patients were treated, there was no need to call doctors from abroad, and there was no need to transport Hungarian patients abroad, because all Hungarian patients had hospital beds, adequate equipment, medicines, medical and nursing facilities were available to provide them with sufficient care, thanks to the fact that during the summer we trained doctors and nurses to care for patients with coronal viruses in the thousands of sizes. We may also recall that in Switzerland people were asked to make provision in advance in case they were hospitalized in critical condition. In Switzerland, which is a symbol of well-being for many countries, I think, but it was so far beyond the limits of health performance that citizens were asked for a preliminary will when they were in a difficult situation in the hospital. We have seen that there were countries where there weren't enough ventilators, there were countries where a ventilator could only be delivered to someone if another patient unfortunately died, then they could transfer him to the other ventilator for life-saving treatment. In many lands, doctors had to decide who was more salvageable, who was less salvageable, and who provided those who were more salvageable, and who were left to their fate who were less salvageable. These are the scenes that doctors, nurses, health workers, those who were kept from Szabó Timea to Lajos Korózs and the entire left-wing media, and until the entire left-wing choir, along with Muller Cecilia and everyone, who were told to be sent home from the hospital with nine of the ten patients dead. Thus, they attacked those who apparently performed far better than many health professionals in the more prosperous countries. In Hungary, there was no such news as in countries richer than us, such as Spain, that caregivers in the social home would have left the elderly to themselves and died in mass homes, but even they themselves moved in to prevent the virus from being brought out of the institution and thus protected the caregivers. Every Hungarian health worker, every Hungarian social worker, everyone involved in the defence is highly appreciated. In the meantime, what did the left do? On the one hand, with an election position, a Gyurcsány show called a pre-election, who will be on the joint list of Ferenc Gyurcsány and György Soros in the next year's elections, while attacking health care. They tried to show the state of Hungarian social homes with Kamuvideos, fake statistics and photos imported from Russia, but in each case they were caught. They were exposed because it turned out that Hungarian health workers were attacked with false news and untruths. They didn't help, and they still do. Last week, what did we hear from Klára Dobrev, one of the left-wing prime minister's candidates, Gergely Christmas interpreter? What did we hear him say about vaccinations? He said that in the short term, vaccination didn't save lives. That's what one of the left leaders said that in the short term, vaccination didn't save lives. And to this day, Hungarian colleagues here in Parliament have not withdrawn the Parliamentary resolution proposal that contains literally the fact that there is no Chinese vaccine in Hungary that is not permitted by the European Medicines Agency, and in another decision it is said that only a vaccine that the EMA considers to be of sufficient quality and effectiveness should be placed on the market. They filed their decisions to ban Eastern vaccines while they were injecting them themselves. This was also dealt with in Hungary by the left, the hyperpassive mayor and the Kamuvideos Korózs Lajos. I think they should be ashamed of themselves, but health workers deserve all respect and respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-28	It is now up to the representative of Fidesz, Congressman Csaba Hende.
u2021-05-25-29	Dear Parliament, The epidemiological data is becoming more and more reassuring. This morning, only 164 new infected people were reported. This also indicates that the third wave of the coronal virus epidemic has been crushed with vaccinations. I also express my thanks and appreciation to all the renowned and anonymous heroes who have endured unwaveringly since the outbreak began. Thanks and glory to paramedics, nurses, assistants, doctors and all actors in Hungarian health care. With great love and respect, I welcome from the House of the country all employees of Markusovszky Hospital in Szombathely. I would also like to briefly remember the volunteers who were not mouth Hungarians, but shoulder Hungarians, in the words of István Széchenyi at the time of emergency. Some of them are very close to me. At the rescue stations, at the injection points, in hospitals, a lot of volunteers helped successfully defend themselves. Let me highlight my friend, Géza Mohos, from Balogum, who served as a driver and courier for the ambulance service. Thank you all. According to recent data, 5 million 27 thousand of our compatriots have already obtained immunity, and more than 3 million have already received their second vaccination. This allowed the government to lift more restrictions, as has already been said, and gradually to return to the usual way of life. Once we've reached the 5 million vaccinees, another phase of rebooting is in effect. Although many restrictions have been removed, the virus is still here and fundamental protection measures are still needed. While vaccination in Hungary is already above 50 percent, the EU average is significantly below 35 percent. Countries like us, such as Portugal, the Czech Republic or Greece, are below the EU average for vaccination. We can therefore say that Hungary is today more protected and safer from the point of view of the epidemic than any Western European country. To do so, the government needed to obtain several effective and safe vaccines in front of others. It is regrettable that, instead of helping to defend itself, the left had to say it all along. They were constantly trying to discredit Hungarian hospitals, doctors and paramedics, even with camuvideos, and they wanted to slow down the vaccination. They have committed a crime in their campaign of disprovement, in their petition and in their proposal to ban the vaccine in Parliament. Those who have fallen for them and stood up for the attacks on Eastern vaccines, and therefore have not registered, I ask them to take the vaccine, because until they do, they are in danger of life and others are at risk. Those who register today will be vaccinated within days, and only in Hungary can be selected between the different vaccines. There is also enough vaccine for anyone to receive a third vaccination if necessary. And by the end of 2022, our domestic vaccine factory will start operations in Debrecen. This guarantees the supply of vaccines in advance for decades. Thanks to the work of our scientists, we can be self-sufficient, we do not need foreign purchases. This is why Hungary does not participate in another purchase of HUF 120 billion in Brussels, in which only one vaccine can be requested, and we would be bound in terms of quantity. 19 million doses should be ordered and paid, whether necessary or not. I would also like to briefly mention that Parliament extended the emergency situation last week, which allows the government to act quickly and effectively. Due to slow-moving vaccination programmes across Europe, infection levels are higher in several countries than in our country. This is why the emergency situation is in force. A number of measures were needed to be extended, such as the need not to replace expired documents overnight during the epidemic. For the sake of the financial security of the Hungarian people and families, the credit moratorium also had to be extended. Without the decision, these measures would have been terminated in a single blow. Once again, the left was interested in chaos when he voted no to the law. If it were up to them, the protection measures would have expired indiscriminately, and the lives of the Hungarian people would be much harder today. That's why they should be ashamed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-30	I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary.
u2021-05-25-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, if I look behind my back, I have to think that the left has taken the House President's direction and has started preparing for the next parliamentary day, in case it ever succeeds in doing so fairly. Although if we start from their anti-vaccinations, if they start in one direction, they will hold themselves even if it leads to the wall or the ravine, so they are expected and, unfortunately, they will not ignore the parliamentary circus. What is more important is that the Hungarian vaccination programme is the most effective and successful in Europe, and this is why we have achieved and even exceeded the 5 million vaccinees. [[14.10]] Thank you and thank all Hungarians for their patience, discipline, compliance with the rules and admission of vaccination. Our vaccination program is therefore the most successful, and this is due to the use of Eastern vaccines in addition to the Western. Today, 40 percent of vaccinated people in Hungary received an Eastern vaccine. The Chinese vaccine Sinopharm protects the lives of over a million people in Hungary, and the Russian vaccine Sputnik protects the lives of 900 thousand people, so it is two million people, two million people, two million lives, two million lives, the protection of the lives of two million people by Eastern vaccines, and, of course, if we consider contamination and transmission, then there are many more people. Of course, it is possible to talk about Chinese universities, for which Schanda's colleague gave an excellent answer, but perhaps it is more important that the Chinese vaccine today protects the lives of more than a million Hungarians and is forgotten by the Hungarian left. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that 51.5 percent have already received at least one vaccine in Hungary, with a European average of 34.5 percent. Two vaccinations were received in Hungary by 31.5 percent, with a European average of 15.5 percent. So the European countries are significantly behind us. It is also true that without Eastern vaccines, we would have lost one and a half to two months, so at present, thanks to the use of Eastern vaccines, we have an advantage of one and a half to two months compared to other European countries, if we were talking about restarting life and the economy, which means that we would not have reached the four million vaccinees on 30 April, but somewhere in the middle of June, the second half. What did the anti-vaccination left do in the meantime? First of all, he's been attacking life-saving vaccines all along. Let me say that politics has seen many things, and many things have already happened, for example, that Ferenc Gyurcsány has economically and morally bankrupted the country, or that the same man may today be the leader of the left, but that Hungarian politicians risk the lives of the Hungarian people for whom they would otherwise be responsible is, in fact, an act of despicable and inhumanity which there are no words for. And when it was found out and it was obvious to everyone that all the vaccines were effective and safe, because the Hungarian doctors said so, you can see from international experience, the international organisations, such as the World Health Organization, and life itself have confirmed the decline in epidemiological data, then what happens, my dear House, what does the Hungarian left do? Well, actually, nothing. They're acting exactly like nothing happened. They lied for months, risked the lives of Hungarian people for months, and then, when they were badly exposed, pretended nothing had happened, and from one moment to the next, they started the appointment of the Prime Minister? The Gyurcsány show. After all, I would say that if they were here, but with their magical personality they do not respect us now, so after months of risking the lives of Hungarian people, they switch from one day to the next, they do not stand up to apologize, but talk about how they could gain power. The truth is that those who risk the lives of Hungarian people have become unworthy to ask for the trust of Hungarian people. If they stood up and at least apologized for the anti-vaccination policy that they conducted for months, they would still be unworthy of the confidence of the Hungarian people, but at least some of their human decency might be preserved. But apparently there's no need for that on the left. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-32	Dear Parliament, Varga Simeon will now be speaking before the Bulgarian national minority agenda in a five-minute period. I give the floor to the speaker.
u2021-05-25-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да випоздравя като застъпник на българското малцинство в унгарски прламент. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, as the Bulgarian ethnic advocate, to welcome you and briefly remember that on 24 May this year, Bulgaria and the Bulgarian community in Hungary have officially celebrated the day of St Cyril and St Methodius, Slavic Writtenness, Faith and Culture. Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius, the two Byzantine missionaries, the IX. At the beginning of the century, they contributed to the development of Slavic language, culture and literature by accepting the Slavic language liturgy and creating the glagolita alphabet. May 24th of each year is the Memorial Day of these two great apostles, Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius, and also the celebration of Slavic writing, faith and culture. Holidays in Bulgaria, Russia and Ukraine, but also in the Czech Republic and Slovakia on 5 July. 1151 years ago, in 870, II. Pope Adoryan appointed Metod as the Pannonia Archbishop and, like Moravia, allowed the Slavic liturgia here. The two apostles, who are regarded by the Slavic nations as their own church, the creator of their own writing, are well - known for their workings here, and this is the only place here, in the Carpathian arm of the Carpathians, where their work is clearly located. Today, the monuments of Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius have been erected in many countries around the world. They are revered as saints both in the East and in the West. This is the case in Hungary, Zalavar, where, 36 years ago, the Bulgarian state and the Eötvös Loránd University were the first to erect a statue in honour of Saint Cyril and Saint Methodius, in recognition of the missionary work carried out here. ANNEX II Besides St. Benedict, Pope John Paul declared the two saints patron saints of Europe. On the monument the bronze statues of the saints are the works of Frigyes Janzer sculptor. Other monuments were later set up in the park: the Salzburg Memorial, which proclaimed the right to establish a new church, and then the monument of the Slovenians in 2005, while the construction of the monument of Slovaks began in 2007. In 2009, on the 1000th anniversary of the founding of the state of Szent István, the General Assembly of Zala County decided that in the most worthy place, in the first centre of the county, Zalavart would present a monument worthy of the Millennium. I would like to propose to the National Assembly and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities that you examine the possibility and initiate my proposal to declare the Zalavári Historical Memorial Park a national memorial or a historic monument, which would thus be worthy of the cultural and religious historical map of Hungary, showing the union of the nation and national minorities. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary's history, it has been proven on several occasions that nationalities living here are state-creating factors, as the Fundamental Law states. Hungary is a European country where the rights of national and linguistic minorities are respected and even parliamentary representation is guaranteed. This is why we welcomed the fact that the Hungarian Parliament, by including the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative in the resolution, has stood up for national, ethnic and linguistic minority protection and that it should be part of European Union law. I am also pleased that this can happen when Hungary takes over the office of President of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, one of the main priorities of which is the protection of national minorities. I would also like to thank the Government of Hungary and Parliament once again for continuing to consider the protection of national minorities at home and beyond the borders. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-34	Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltés, I ask all Members to put on their masks. Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-25-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Speaker, Thank you very much for your speech. It is important to point out that 76 percent of the population of Bulgaria today claims to be Orthodox Christians, and one of the most western gates of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, if you can say so, is in Budapest between Central and Western Europe, while the patron saints of the church in Budapest are Saint Cyril and St Methodius. Nor is it a coincidence that the Bulgarian community, which has been united for centuries with the Hungarian nation, has built this church from its own contribution, from its own struggle, and still preserves not only its memory, but also its memory in everyday life. Cyril and Methodius, also known as Constantine, were important builders of European culture. Annex IX is amended as follows: In the early 20th century they arrived from Constantinople to Moravia, and after Moravia they went on to Rome and stopped in Mosaburg, today in Zalavar, where temples were built. Indeed, they are responsible for the Scriptural passages that were translated into Slav, and they are responsible for the glagolite, so the Old Slavic script and the ancient form of the Cyrillic alphabet. [[14.20]] We therefore believe that their history, both in Zalavar and through today's nationalities, who use Cyrillic letters or belong to orthodox and Catholic Christianity, is worthy of our support in some way. Either the national memorial or the historic memorial site: you will initiate it, the Parliament or the government will make a decision about it. In addition, I must say that all the efforts that you have made before you, your elites, have been made to survive, we must also support this. We must support the preservation of our nationalities on both domestic and international grounds, if we may say so. In the home area, I think there is little to say about how much we have done over the past ten years, but what is worth summing up is that the support of nationalities has increased five times over ten years, it is worth highlighting that the number of their institutions has increased eightfold and there has been a huge change in kindergartens, schools and secondary schools. It is worth saying that, like you, the others can sit among us as advocates since 2014, and even in 2018, with a preferential quota, the German community could send its own parliamentary representative to Parliament. It is important to highlight the various programmes, pedagogues' allowances, kindergarten educators' scholarships and much more that help national minorities to preserve and remain. In addition, we are in the fight, whether on an international scale or in Hungary, that for some reason national minorities, national minorities, are in the background and are often subject to attack. When you think about the fact that we started it together, millions of people signed the Minority SafePack, it is important to everyone, because it is important to us for the nationalities of Hungary, it is important for the Hungarians from abroad, it is important for the many nationalities in Europe, and yet Brussels does not allow it. Nationalities, national minorities don't matter to them. As we see, they do not count for the Hungarian left either, because last year we made a law, two-thirds legislation, which partly envisaged that all nationalities who take over schools and kindergartens will also receive property. Who's twitching who's attacking this, who's not doing it? Gergely Christmas does not give the Serbian school Nikola Tesla the rightful institution, they are stalling on purpose. The same was true for DK, boycotted Minority SafePack, not supported. And then, a few days ago, here in Parliament, the new representative of the left, Brenner Koloman, threatened the German minority representative in part, as he said: in the last cycle, the representative of the domestic family was, of course, placed in a domestic political force, but the future will tell us what will happen to him. Thank you very much, we do not want any of this, but we will continue to support you. God bless nationalities. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-36	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2021-05-25-37	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; László Horváth, Fidesz; Zoltán Varga, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; László Hajdu, DK; László Varju, DK; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, Jobbik; János Stummer, Jobbik and Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Tamás Melár, Dialogue; Antal Csárdi, LMP; Gergely Arató, DK; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; György Szilágyi, Jobbik; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm is independent; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. On Thursday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; János Stummer, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2021-05-25-38	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the 2020 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2021. T/15974/10 submitted to the bill amending law I sent the President of the Fiscal Council a single proposal for an opinion on 18 May. In view of the fact that the President of the Council did not deliver the opinion of the Council within the deadline, the Stability Act was adopted in accordance with Article 26 (3) of the Stability Act. The preliminary consent of the Council to the single proposal is deemed to be granted under Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure, so that tomorrow's final vote is not an obstacle. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Result appearing on the table: 143 present, 56 away.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The Jobbik Group suggested that at the meeting of the Parliament on 25 May 2021, LXXVIII 1993 on certain arrangements for renting apartments and premises and their disposal. Act 1 and Act CXCVI of 2011 on National Property. T/16223. The General Discussion of the Bill No. 1 should not take place, while at the same time initiating the Parliament to decide on the motion by using a voting machine. In line with the motion, I am now asking this House to accept the amendment of the Better Agenda. [[Vote.]] The proposal to amend the agenda was rejected by 35 votes in favour, 110 votes against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you, I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:28 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. In a one-minute technical break, I would like to ask the honourable Members and gentlemen, who have somewhere else to be, to leave the Chamber quietly and quickly. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation. Congressman's got the floor.
u2021-05-25-39	Mr President, Dear House, Since 2010, I have accused this government of betraying national interests on a number of issues, whether it be about multi-enterprises or the pampering of banks to the detriment of the victims, but there is now a particular area that is perhaps one of the most impertinent areas of this government, where it will no doubt waste national wealth for pennies in order to put its own minions in the position of housing. It's quite simply unacceptable for any government to have a home-privatization thieving law-style thing that you brought, but it's treason on the part of a government that calls itself a national. It is no secret that Hungary's current government is trying to waste some HUF 800-900 billion in national assets, designing the flow chart to make it irreversible. Therefore, we see that in preparation for failure, as they seek to save thousands of billion-dollar wealth to universities and trust foundations, as they try to form constituencies and islands within the Hungarian national economy or in its shadow zone, they now betray not only the national wealth, but also the Hungarian future, simply so that some fidesz patrons can obtain preferential property rights and inheritance instead of their right to rent so far. [[14.30]] They betray the Hungarian future, because they want to play at least 60-70 thousand apartments from a market where there is already a supply shortage, where there is hardly enough rent for people in need, where a lot of people, a lot of our countrymen, can get family or family plans if they can't get cheap, affordable housing. Yet you would sacrifice this while you are indebted for decades with a rent-apartment program. Jobbik put this concept on the table, and I don't think there's a opposition party that's gonna be separated from housing, and the whole opposition wants to build rent apartments on a massive scale. Five to ten thousand apartments could be built every year, as we put this in the concept of. We wait, together with market participants, on the table. They could be moved at a reduced price, up to half the market price, and half of the real estate growth could be bought if the conditions for social co-existence were fully met. This would increase the value of national assets and increase the value of municipal assets. We would do this from budgetary sources, so the municipalities should not be farming out of their own pockets. Hungarian young people, the Hungarian future, could also be helped so that those who wish to thrive in Hungary, in their homeland, could do so here. This is a win-win situation, please. The only question left is why Hungary's Government does not support mass housing [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why are you eating up the Hungarian future with the privatization thieving law? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2021-05-25-40	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2021-05-25-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I see your interpellation isn't exactly supported by your faction, because you're out of the room. I hope that doesn't mean they don't agree with you. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Don't try to be clever, because you can't!]] The fact that you put something on the table must be true. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] The point is that they want to give people a rental and then sell it at 50 percent, 50 percent of the market value. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: That's not what this is about.]] the bill that a congressman has submitted to the Parliament, which you are attacking, and that you want to sell at 30 percent. So you'd like to sell the apartment below market value. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] This is also the bill, which you call, of course, the law of favor and the existence of the Hungarian future. In 60,000 or 70,000 apartments, you all know what kind of voter he is, and who owns the party's supporter lives and lives. You can see that you are approaching this issue on a completely political basis and not looking at reality. The reality is that Hungarian people like to live and live in their own apartments. They don't like living in a rental house because the apartment has a rent, it has a cost of maintaining it, and they like to spend these costs on their own apartments. They'd rather pay a mortgage, refurbish it with their own hands or with their friends, and not spend it, but the point is that the apartment should be owned by its own. Otherwise, we are also top riders in Europe, as more than 90 percent of those living in apartments are owned by Hungarians. The government has been pursuing this policy and has met this social need since 2010. He strives to help people who want to live in their own apartments. For this to happen, the government has taken a lot of measures in the last ten years. I would just like to say a few that came into force from 1 January 2021. VAT reduction: VAT on newly purchased or built apartments decreased from 27 percent to 5 percent. VAT exemption: From 1 January 2021, a family with at least one child is exempted from VAT for the purchase of a new home. VAT refund of 5 million: like the period 2016-19, the amount of VAT for HUF 5 million has already been reclaimed. The exemption: families who have used CSOK to purchase new or used residential property are exempted from the payment of the levy; the 4 per cent levy is not payable. The multigenerational home-building loan, or the latest home-refurbishing support, when the government takes over 3 million HUF out of the 6 million HUF renovation amount. Unfortunately, in the four minutes I can no longer tell you what measures the government has taken to ensure that Hungarian people fill and satisfy their own needs in their own homes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-42	I will give the floor once again to the Member for a return answer.
u2021-05-25-43	Mr President, Dear House, Secretary of State, I was subjected to secondary shame at the beginning of your speech and reply. If you're trying to humiliate someone, at least do it in such a clever way that at least your own understand, even they don't understand. Think about it. [[András Tállai: It's okay, I got it.]] The thing is, you're so unprepared that you didn't even read the pre-written question you asked, or even your colleagues. We didn't want to sell apartments at 50 percent of any cost. [[András Tállai: That's what you said!]] If I'm tougher, I'd say you're lying, but you're just not listening to what's been said, not even listening to my intro. [[András Tállai: He doesn't remember what he said. You said that yourself.]] You remember wrong. Be more prepared. The fact is that if Hungarian citizens have to choose [[András Tállai: You said it! Don't you remember what you said?]] between the Hungarian future and you, you will obviously choose us, because we would build the apartments in bulk, and you are preparing for a penny attic sweep at the expense of national wealth. They will sell national assets worth 800-900 billion forints, potentially enabling Hungarian youth to live. We, on the other hand, act by all means. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Next year, the Hungarian future will judge your actions. [[András Tállai: You will not be in Parliament next year! It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2021-05-25-44	Congressman didn't accept the answer. [[András Tállai speaks to Dániel Z. Carpathian.]] However, Mr Secretary of State does not have the floor, just like any Member. I could also say that you should set an example. [[András Tállai: You said...]] Mr. Secretary, would you stop it, please? [[Szabolcs Szabó: 10 million to him!]] I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology. The Interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Minister by the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office with responsibility and competence on the subject. Congresswoman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2021-05-25-45	Thank you very much. Dear House, József Michl, Mayor of Tata and Deputy State Secretary for Construction of the Prime Minister's Office Zsolt Füleky held a joint press conference on 3 February 2021. The Deputy State Secretary said that he said that it is a significant step forward in the city's life if investments are planned not individually but in a unified way. In view of all this, it is difficult to understand why the design contest that has been launched since then was contrary to this view, and why it focuses only on a small slice of the historic city centre. You're trashing your own ideas. Many buildings have been left out of the plan, without which there is simply no way to talk about unified thinking. You're simply fooling the Tata people. I am also asking on behalf of the citizens of Tata, if the Deputy Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office believes that the city centre cannot be split into parts during the renovation, then why has this been the opposite decision. Why did they only announce a incomplete design contest? It is in the common interest of the Hungarian State and the local government that the rehabilitation of the historic core of the city be carried out in accordance with uniform principles and mutually reinforcing goals. Otherwise, incompatible solutions will make it impossible to develop the area in a sustainable, economical way. The city is already full of cultural properties that cannot be maintained in a profitable way, and unfortunately, they only carry the money. Such is the open-air stage, the English garden mansion or the eco-tourist centre or the order. [[14.40]] A few weeks ago, I submitted a written question on the subject, because the call for proposals was approaching. Since then, the tender has been completed without any changes being made. 22 valid entries were received, according to the notice, the deadline for submission was 10 May 2021. For such a project, only a few weeks were awarded to applicants to prepare the plans. If it isn't that the winner's candidate's identity has been decided a long time ago. Because in a few weeks, there's no way a job like this could be done. It is much more likely that the cards have been distributed long ago, and the plans have been completed without consulting the Tata citizens. In addition, the winning competition will only be available to the citizens after the announcement of the results. It's more than a mistake, it's a sin. The historical core of the Tata city centre is the unique value of all Europe. Ignoring professional aspects and the lack of a uniform concept is a sin against the cultural values of Tata, and I think it is also a sin against the people of Tata. Mr. Secretary, please tell me there's a chance you'll discuss this with one another. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-46	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2021-05-25-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That is not the most important point I have to make, but I would like to respond to two specific points. On the one hand, you claimed that the deadline for a design contest was not sufficient. Then one sentence later he said that 23 entries were received, not 22, according to my information 23. The two statements cannot be true at the same time, Congresswoman. At least once read what you want to tell me about your interpellation. The other comment was why you and the related interested parties could not get to know the design contests. This is a feature of the design contest procedure, that there is a technical committee and that there is an anonymous tender. So what you're referring to is a felony. So I hope that didn't happen. I would suggest that, in this sense, a woman representing at least political incitement to crime should not, in the future, do so here, within the walls of this House. But much more important is the city center of Tata and Tata, one of Europe's unique values. The socialist era has left serious clues on the buildings. Baroque, romantic building-garden ensemble became dead, destroyed, destroyed. It was used for the original function of the Esterházy Castle in unworthy functions. After a system change, the city was hit by spontaneous privatisation, when even one of the castle's bastions was moved to a public limited company, so it was a very, very difficult situation. The government and the current city administration will continue to do their best to renew the city, which is otherwise unique in historical, cultural and architectural terms, and its city centre in this unworthy starting point. The Esterházy Mansion was the property I mentioned that functioned as a mental institution. His interpellation gives me the opportunity to report that we have just handed over to the public today the reconstruction of the building complex from HUF 2.4 billion. This is the first place to open up to visitors in the spring of 21 in the framework of the national castle programme. In addition to the programme's resources, EU support was also used. Within the framework of the project, the main building, the southern wing of the castle, the reconstruction of the inner courtyard, the drainage of the lake, the strengthening of the supporting wall behind the castle, the construction of public buildings, the structural reinforcement of the main building, modernisation, wall paintings, the restoration of original Baroque parks. Further projects are under way. So far, the central square, Kossuth Square has been renewed, Farkasházy House, Calvary renewal, Kőcaragó House, private projects are also taking place, and church projects are also ongoing in the city of Tata. The town of Tata prepared the concept of urban development, published on the website on 13 May. The opinion may be delivered on 30 June. And by the way, he launched a design contest: the complete renovation of the cultural house and the former clinic, including the reflection of functions, spatial connections, the appearance of settlements, the wording of the historical city and castle, which meets the requirements of the age. That's what the "Tata's heart" is all about. So the two design contests are part-and-all connected. The whole part does not have to fulfil its function, the whole function must be filled by the whole, and the concept of urban development is currently public and can still be considered. I know urban development is a complex thing, it's not easy to see through procedures [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] But in this context, I think that expertise is not a Bolshevist trick, but it is worth practicing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-48	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll take the answer.
u2021-05-25-49	No. Can I react?
u2021-05-25-50	Of course! You have a minute.
u2021-05-25-51	Thank you very much. I was just waiting for you to signal me, Mr. President.
u2021-05-25-52	Here you go.
u2021-05-25-53	Well, I'm really glad I got a lot more information than I did the last time, so it was worth doing this interpellation. Of course, I am extremely pleased that you can get into the Esterházy Castle for 2500 HUF, and for the students perhaps 1250 HUF. I would definitely think that the locals would be free of charge, because it's a little part of their history. I am also pleased, Mr Secretary, that you have provided a number of other options. However, there are still a number of areas worth focusing on. For example, the use of the Balogh small mansion, the car park or the Cifra mill for example, but I could mention, for example, the municipal-owned ex-Piarist house or the synagogue building, which were also waiting for renovation and recovery. So I was pleased that if the decision was made to support the design contest by the government, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] then we really will have a chance in the future to make it happen. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2021-05-25-54	What I said about the previous interpellation concerns, of course, any further unaccepted interpellation, i.e. that we decide on it on tomorrow's meeting. We now have Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, who has submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the families. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-25-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This month there was a ten-year agreement in Istanbul, which Hungary has not yet ratified. It is true that there are five other Member States of the European Union. However, unlike us, they did not declare in a separate statement that they did not intend to do so. According to this statement, I quote:. The protection of children and the fight against violence against women are still part of the Hungarian legal system, which provides the necessary legal guarantees to all those in need of protection. In the meantime, on average, one woman per week is killed by her partner, and on average one child is a victim of domestic violence in our country every month. For example, a year and a half ago, two of the three children of a man convicted of attempted murder at the expense of his divorced wife were beaten to death in front of his third eye, and he received a very mild punishment. It is also a very mild punishment for the previous crime, I think, that it is not a burden on the judge, that the judge is not made up of, but interprets the law. This judge has imposed the maximum penalty. It is not his fault that the Minister of Justice and his predecessors did not have enough 11 years in the two-thirds majority of Parliament to provide for the restriction of the right of access to children by law for a man who struck his sleeping wife's head with a hammer until it was broken. Cases that are deplorable and continue to show how the current Hungarian government deals with women's rights can be classified endlessly. Starting with the memorable video of Minister Katalin Novák telling all the housewives and future housewives of our country that they should not care if they earn less than men, do not even care if they are more burdened with unpaid work than men. By the way, the Prime Minister's recent statement that he is aware that women are under more stress in the epidemic was perfectly rhymed, as there are many mothers at home school, as opposed to how few fathers were able to attend. I think that the attitude that the government is making towards this subject is totally unacceptable. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is that, at the summit in Porto, we have already learned that Viktor Orbán has fallen behind in the efforts of the Community to combat the restoration of gender equality, and I respectfully ask you that, in the long term, you do not think that you will be behind it. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[14.50]]
u2021-05-25-56	Mr Róbert Zsigó is the secretary of state.
u2021-05-25-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to reject your statements, your quotes from the context, which suggest that the government would in any way adversely affect women. In contrast to your claim, Hungary appreciates women, for the sake of balance between women and men, the government has made a number of decisions over the past ten years that have contributed to the expansion of women's opportunities, freedom of choice, respect for their work, the coordination of the world of family life and work, and that the commitment of motherhood is not the same as taking on material difficulties. Since 2010, women's employment has increased to the second largest extent in Hungary within the European Union. There is a particularly visible improvement in the trend among women raising children. In Hungary, the proportion of women with children under the age of six has increased by more than 30 percent since 2010, who are able to work in addition to raising their children. This is due to the continuous development of cradle seats, the extra child and the results of work-based economic policies that enable work to be done alongside children. In 10 years in Hungary, the pay gap in Hungary has been reduced by less than half, according to an OECD survey comparing the central value of women and men's total earnings by 20 percent. Women's dual participation in the labour market and child raising are rewarded by the government with opportunities such as the absence of income tax for mothers with four or more children, the remission of student loans or even the "Women 40" programme. On the other hand, your party president, Ferenc Gyurcsány, did not help women, family mothers, families before 2010, but made their lives more difficult by continuous austerity. That is unacceptable, Congresswoman. At the time, unemployment was enormous, including female unemployment. They reduced the duration of the child, stopped regular child protection support to list only a few of the shameful measures at the time. Of course, you did not exactly quote Minister Katalin Novak or Prime Minister Viktor Orbán what you said. In your comment on Mother's Day, Prime Minister, you said, and I quote:. So I have to say that what the Hungarian women have shown in the last year deserves all respect. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Anett's intruding.]] Congresswoman, quote exactly. Dear Parliament, It is very important that, in recent years, we have increased the protection of women through strict criminal policy, crisis centres, shelters, legal and spiritual aid programmes. In 2013, the Parliament significantly tightened the penalties for domestic violence and made the relationship violence a stand-alone reality. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You also withheld your comments on the fact that you did not support, inter alia, the actions of the family action plan during the parliamentary elections, did not support the four-year-old mother's absence, did not support the establishment of a family-friendly administration, nor did you support the adoption of a child care fee for sick children and the increase in the care fee. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The thing is, nothing seems to have changed, you just talk and promise, but when it comes to action, you never stand by women, family mothers, or families. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] From what I've told you, we appreciate women. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-58	In return, I give the floor once again to a congresswoman.
u2021-05-25-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, I cannot accept your answer because it seems very much like watching two different films. When you talk about the constant expansion of cradle seats, I see that 80,000 people cannot work today based on a Eurostat survey, 80,000 mothers cannot work in this country because there is not enough nursery space. This is a Eurostat data, you can argue with it or you can't argue with it; I think the numbers can't lie much. Fifty percent of mothers with three children were unable to rejoin the labour market, not even those who otherwise intended to. In the case of mothers with four or more children, we find a worse ratio. Secretary of State, to list social measures that want to replace or make up for Hungarian women, mothers, who otherwise suffer from significant legal disadvantages, because their dignity is damaged in everyday life, I think [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I don't think that's enough. Thank you.
u2021-05-25-60	Lóránt Csárdi and László Keresztes, representatives of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with responsibility and competence will respond to the interpellation. It's up to Team Leader.
u2021-05-25-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Everyone in Hungary knows that in the past year you have been brutally restricting local governments, villages, cities, Budapest districts and Budapest. We can see that the compensation was disproportionate, typically insufficient in rural cities with opposition leadership, and that Budapest received no compensation. The withdrawal of business tax revenues, the withdrawal of car taxes, the withdrawal of parking revenues, the einstantisation of development money are the items with which you hit the opposition authorities. After that, we saw that the compensation does not, for example, cover Budapest. In the meantime, it is clear that the pro-government settlements have been well compensated by you. It is quite clear that this is not a crisis management, this is not a good governance, this is a political vendetta due to the serious defeat you have suffered in the 2019 municipal elections. At the same time, it should be clear to everyone that this does not punish and harm the leaders of the given settlements, not the city leaders, not the district leaders, not the leaders of Budapest, but the affected people. It is also totally unacceptable that the pro-government representatives of the regions concerned do not raise their voice at all when faced with such outrageous restrictions. We can say that after the last ten years, they have tried to create different enemy images to cover up your lack of governance, and now, after 2019, they have been very strongly strengthened after the municipal elections, that they also want to eliminate the local governments, opposition authorities and typically the entire local government, and in this way they are trying to enforce this petty political revenge. At the same time, it is quite clear that the tasks of municipalities and districts include the most important public services, the maintenance of institutions that are essential in people's everyday life: kindergarten care, the maintenance of nursery schools, the organisation of elderly care, the maintenance of public transport, the ordering and cleaning of streets and public areas if we talk about it. We hope that the Secretary of State agrees that these public services and these tasks are very important, and these institutions, which are indeed essential for people's everyday lives; that they must be maintained and it is not acceptable that your austerity policy threatens to maintain them. And if you agree, Secretary of State, that these tasks and these public services are important, then give a clear answer as to when the districts of Budapest and the cities affected by restrictions will be able to recover the resources needed to maintain these essential public services. And I repeat: you do not have to give us basically an answer, but you owe the people concerned a decent answer. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-05-25-62	Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2021-05-25-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The coronal virus epidemic has seriously tested Hungary, the government bodies, the local government bodies, over the past year. The economic impact of the corona virus epidemic, reduced tax revenues, increased spending, had to be tackled by everyone. This is the general framework in which all states in Hungary, Europe and the world move. If we look at the situation of the municipalities within this framework, then we can say that the municipal operation, the situation of the local government in Hungary is stable, is much more stable than before 2010, in the previous crisis period. On the one hand, the government took over more than HUF 1000 billion of debt from the municipalities. In the case of the capital city, it amounted to HUF 375 billion; while 17 percent of Hungarians live in Budapest, it is 26 percent. [[15.00]] After that, business tax revenues have obviously increased steadily, not independently of economic growth. In the case of the capital city, this was a 90 percent increase before the epidemic, but we are still at 65 percent; in the district authorities it was a 40 percent increase, and even now, in addition to reduced tax revenues, we are at 20 percent. Thus, 20 percent more tax revenue was received by the municipalities without any tax being raised. According to the data series of the Hungarian State Treasury, the capital has more than HUF 100 billion of money that can be used freely, which is completely understandable, since the EU average is 151 percent of GDP per capita; while there are areas in the country where this is less than 60 percent. So the capital and the metropolitan districts are the richest. How do we fight the economic effects of this epidemic? Our philosophy is to help people, to help businesses, to reduce their burdens, and so we ordered tax reliefs and tax reductions. One element of this is, for example, the waiver of business tax revenue, in connection with which we launched a compensatory mechanism; you referred to this. In the framework of this compensation mechanism, municipalities below 25,000 automatically received lost tax revenues, and in the municipalities above 25,000 persons this was done on the basis of individual consideration. Party policy aspects did not play a part in this. If that were the case, for example, Pécs would not be your narrower Patria with more than two billion forints on this list in the second place, and Szeged would not be on the list with almost two billion forints in the third place. We have ranked the municipalities on the basis of tax power, some of them have operating aid, some have operating and development aid, and some have only received development aid. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Once again, in this comparison and in this list, regardless of party political affiliation, the capital and the metropolitan districts are top riders, their operation is absolutely stable. By the way, if you look at next year's budget, the operating aid for the Municipality of Budapest will also increase by HUF 6 billion, while the support of all metropolitan governments will increase by 32 percent to HUF 28 billion. Compared to this, we hear constant complaints from the left that there is no money for this, that there is no money for that. What we are seeing is that there is money for consultants, committees, groups, and the government is desecrating the capital for a poster campaign, and there is also money for 22 million forints. The two things can't be true at the same time. Let us agree that everyone must play their part, but the budget of the municipalities is stable, and Hungarian citizens and businesses [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They're doing well, which, I think, should be in everyone's best interests. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. I salute my fellow Members. I'll ask Mr. Group Leader to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-05-25-65	Thank you, Mr. President. I cannot accept the answer, because Mr Secretary of State's reply did not show that individual consideration meant clear political direction and political decisions with you. The fact that Budapest has not received compensation in any way is totally unacceptable. As you know, it is also unfounded that the operation of the municipalities is stable, because, by the way, your superiors, Prime Minister, also acknowledge that a lot of public services are in a crisis situation which is essential for people's everyday lives, whether public utility services or public transport. So you know perfectly well that even in Budapest there is a huge need for substantial support in such a critical time and with such brutal government constraints to maintain them. Just a very brief reference to Pécs, Mr. Secretary of State. For a very, very long time, for ten years, Fidesz city leadership and Fidesz government operated in Pécs, and the city was brutally indebted even after the state debt transfer. Now there are two billion compensations, so nearly six billion forints were lost by your austerity and the epidemic. I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2021-05-25-66	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:, Will the government stop the defaulting fundamental law against workers? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2021-05-25-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As you may have noticed, one day before 1 May, the Constitutional Court announced its judgment, which in several points declared the slave law to be illegal, and gave Parliament until 31 July 2021 a deadline to replace and remedy this default constitutional violation. He did all this in the wake of a 2018 opposition motion when opposition parties turned to the Constitutional Court because you here, let's add, not only in the face of the interests of the workers, the interests of the 99 percent, but in violation of the slave law, against which we protested quite hard enough, and we received our millions of penalties for it. Then a series of demonstrations began across the country, from Budapest to Szeged to Tatabánya. In protests of unprecedented size, people said that they would not tolerate you selling out their interests to international capital and their own oligarchs. The slave bill took the workers' rest periods, forced them to work too hard, cheated off their overtime money. The Constitutional Court's submission, which was prepared to remedy this by opposition parties, has now been left on several points by the Constitutional Court, which, obviously, cannot be accused of bias towards the opposition, since all its members have been appointed by you. Thus, after two and a half years, the Constitutional Court has stated that, on the one hand, no one can be dismissed because it does not commit to work too much. In addition, Ab stated that despite the three-year working time limit, the average of rest periods should be reached within the previous maximum one-year period and that exceptional work should be taken into account after one year. Finally, the Constitutional Court has decided that if the collective agreement is terminated by the employer in three years, i.e. 36 months, the additional guarantees that the trade union has negotiated in exchange for the adoption of the 36 months should continue to apply. As is known, in many places, it was the practice of the employer to lure the union into this 36-month dead end with attractive extra benefits and then to terminate the collective agreement. Secretary of State, would the government be willing to end the default violation of the basic law on workers? Did the government compensate the victims of the anti-law slave law, the injured Hungarian workers? I look forward to your reply.
u2021-05-25-68	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-05-25-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have either hyperpassive reading, interpretation, or deliberately not telling the truth, because you failed to hit the truth. So let us be clear: the Constitutional Court rejected the submission of the Left, the law is not against the law. It's the truth. [[Bence of Turda: Not everything...]] Honourable Congressman, I therefore propose to you, above all, an accurate and understanding study of the decision. So don't make any false statements here in Parliament. Of course, asking you to be serious is more than naive, so I wouldn't take it. However, if you wish, I would quote it literally:. The Constitutional Court is Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code 94. Paragraph 3 of Section 109. § 2 and Article 135 § 3 rejects the motion for the establishment and annulment of the fundamental law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Oops! Bence of Turdai: You should read through it!]] Article 109 (1) (a) § 2 and Article 135 § 3 rejects the motion for the establishment and annulment of the fundamental law. (Dr. Pál Völner: Whoops! Bence of Turdai: You should read through it!) That is the case, honourable Member. At the same time, the Constitutional Court stated that legislation is a special and in rare cases incomplete, i.e. it is necessary to establish a small detailed rule. And the Government will always comply, honourable Member, with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and we will continue to do so, as we have done, until the deadline, because we, unlike you, respect the law, respect the courts, respect the Fundamental Law, even if we do not agree with certain decisions. [[15.10]] Honourable Congressman, It is also important to talk about the importance of one of the Code of Work, if not its most important objective, to respond to the constantly changing challenges of the world of work. This is important both for strengthening the country's competitiveness and for businesses and workers alike. Recognizing this, the Constitutional Court has, as we do, fundamentally welcomed the amendment to the Labour Code, and the decision clearly states that the increase in the maximum possible duration of the working time limit for 36 months cannot in itself be regarded as against the law. This is important, among other things, because it can guarantee and guarantee that companies and jobs can be saved in the economy during the period of the pandemic; because this regulation has allowed flexibility to organise work, it has made it possible not to have to send workers from the real economy, and all of this by entrusting it to a free common agreement between the employer and the worker. You are attacking this, which is outrageous, and the only reason we are not surprised at this is because you have attacked everything during the period of the coronal virus epidemic, which was about protecting jobs: you have not voted in favour of wage support, you have not voted in favour of the credit moratorium, and you have been rooting for the situation to get worse. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Bence Tordai, notary, to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-05-25-71	Well, it was hard to interpret the Secretary of State's answer because he said that the government was not condemned by the Constitutional Court and then admitted that it was, yes. [[Tamás János Schanda: No!]] So I will also read the Constitutional Court's resolution exactly:. The Constitutional Court has determined that the National Assembly is governed by Article B (1), Article M and Article XVII of the Fundamental Law. Article 3 (3) and (4) has led to a failure to comply with the fundamental law. The Constitutional Court therefore calls on Parliament to fulfil its legislative task by 31 July 2021. So you finally admitted that you had been discredited by the Constitutional Court, admitted that you had to carry out this task and that you were going to do it, which is actually admitting your defeat. It would have been nice, but it would have been nice if we hadn't had to struggle for two and a half years so that the interests of Hungarian workers would finally prevail, and the Fidesz government wouldn't have served the interests of the oligarchs and the capital. I don't accept the answer, of course.
u2021-05-25-72	Thank you very much. The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. What does the government do against increasing migratory pressure? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2021-05-25-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent months, the number of illegal cross-border attempts on the southern border has increased to an ever more worrying extent. On average, 41 people tried to enter Hungary illegally every day in 2019, but in 2020, despite the border closure measures introduced by the coronal virus epidemic, the same number reached 126 people per day. Last year a total of 46 179 people made an attempt to cross the border, but between 1 January and 30 April this year 30 433 people tried. This is a daily average of 254 people, which is double the activity seen last year. The movement of illegal immigrants is also increasing in the Romanian-Serbian-Hungarian triple border area, as the Romanian-Serbian border is easier to cross than the Hungarian-Serbian border. At the same time, smugglers have increasingly tried to get illegal migrants from Romania into the Schengen area, taking advantage of the growing load traffic: in 2019, 368 people were detained during border controls, in 2020, 925 have already been dealt with, and between 1 January and 30 April this year we know of 1425 such cases. It appears that the relief of the coronal virus epidemic and the crisis caused by it is followed by a re-enhancing of migratory pressure. More than 100,000 illegal immigrants in Greece and the masses in the Turkey area provide significant replacements for migration on the Western Balkans route. In 2015, we saw what it was like to see a wave of more than 100,000 migrations passing through our country, and we also saw how unprepared Europe was for this flood of people. It is a sad fact that those radical elements and terrorists who later attacked innocent residents of the countries that received them were also hiding in the uncontrolled crowd. In the current sensitive situation, the health factors of migration pose a further threat that has not yet been seen. I think we need to do everything we can to prevent and avoid events that have happened once in the past. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I am asking you what concrete measures the government is taking in response to increasing migratory pressure. What political difficulties do we face in the fight against migration, and how can we respond to them? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-05-25-74	Thank you, Congressman János Pócs. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra to answer.
u2021-05-25-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for bringing this very important question to Parliament and talking about it, because indeed, as the figures you quoted are showing, migration pressure is increasing at the borders of Hungary, primarily at the southern borders of Hungary. As you said, these numbers are constantly increasing compared to 2020 and the previous period: 46 179 people wanted to enter the country illegally in 2020 at the Hungarian border, while in 2019 the number was 17 252, and the number of smugglers captured in 2020 was 455, compared to 155 in 2019; the number of people who entered or attempted illegal entry between 1 January 2021 and 24 May 2021 was 35 945, while the number of people who were subject to the measures between 1 January 2020 and 24 May 2020 was 9885; the number of smugglers subject to the measure was 331 during the period from 1 January 2021 to 24 May 2021, while 111 during the same period of 2020. So what we see is that the number of attempts to enter the territory of Hungary and the number of smugglers have also increased. These two are linked, since smugglers have significant activity in order to illegally transfer illegal migrants to the territory of Hungary and the European Union. As you said, in September 2015, the Hungarian Parliament, in order to present the government, created the laws that created the triple protection: on the one hand, we can protect Hungary and the security of the Hungarian people, thanks to the physical protection, the technical protection, the living protection and the legal protection, and thanks to this triple protection, which works well, we can say that Hungary, the Hungarian people are safe. Hungary is a safe country, and serving police and soldiers at the border contributes greatly to this. I would also like to thank the police and soldiers serving at the borders of Hungary for their service, as this makes a big contribution to saying that Hungary is a safe country. The other problem you have rightly raised is that, in addition to the activity of smugglers in this situation, it is important that the mass emergence of uninoculated migrants at borders and on the Balkan route is a major threat. [[15.20]] The Balkan route is still active, and it is important that we protect the results that we have achieved in the fight against the coronal virus epidemic here in Hungary. These results, these numbers are improving day by day, for which we are also grateful to everyone who works on this, their participation and their work. So, there is a potential threat to the mass emergence of uninoculated migrants, and that is why the Hungarian borders must be protected. I would also like to draw attention to one thing: that we could be more effective and that it would be easier for us to carry out these tasks if the European Union were to take a similar approach and expect everyone to protect their borders, make it mandatory for everyone and take action against illegal migration. I would also like to emphasise that the Government of Hungary will ensure the necessary financial, material and personal conditions in order to protect our borders in the future. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-76	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. I will ask Mr János Pócs to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2021-05-25-77	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, I accept and thank you for your reply. It is also because, in my narrower country, Jászság, a DK candidate is running for the opening election of 22 who has already been a Member of the Parliament of the Gyurcsány government. He currently submitted a written submission from the opposition in 2016 to support the adoption of the migrant quota. It accepts that terrorism is one of the forms of warfare of the third millennium. He supports it, because Jászberény and Hungary believe that it is facing a demographic crisis and that the residents are needed. According to the proposal, Jászberény must accept the refugees, because they are still living in Jászberény, which is why the people's language considers the Jászsak to be conspirators. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, We must see that if Gyurcsány's people put forward such a proposal in opposition, then what would they do in government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-78	Thank you very much, Mr János Pócs, who therefore accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What is the reason for the complete subversive of the Hungarian university world? It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor.
u2021-05-25-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As a further step in Fidesz's anti-knowledge and intellectual policy, which reached its first and very sad climax by separating the research networks of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, we are currently at the point of turning all Hungarian universities into foundations with five exceptions. In addition, the Chancellor of the University of Technology has already made reference to the fact that they will, of course, volunteer and sing to carry out this university transfer. At the same time, the experience that has now gone back several months has shown that all the concerns that I have expressed on behalf of the EPP Jobbik in all my keynote speakers in this form have unfortunately been proven, because they have not accepted my amendment in each case that university leaders elected by university citizens should be ex-officio, i.e. members of the Board of Trustees by office. No, instead, the Fidesz minister appoints the Fidesz curators, and unfortunately, the lists that have come to light have proved all the doubts and concerns that I have always talked about. As they progressed with the model changes and felt the tensions that were created in the Hungarian university world, I would like to refer only to the case of Szeged or Pécs, because in Szeged, let's say, they got to the point that the elected senators of each arm were turned against their own arms, shame and shame, and in this context, they took out one of the last flag bearers of the civil flag that Fidesz had long since thrown away, István Stumpf, who went around the universities and tried to sell this project and promised grass trees and, above all, EU support. Then we saw what became of this when Minister Viktor Orbán went to Brussels again to lose a battle: there would be no EU support for Hungarian universities, even though they were promised it was the only way they could get some of the Senates to vote for what is not in fact in the interests of the Hungarian university world. Then I no longer talk about the University of Fudan in China, because we know that not only the population rejects this Chinese university, but also the Hungarian university world. They want to unleash on the Hungarian university world a university project with a very bad loan agreement, which is not in our interest. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State to withdraw these anti-knowledge and intellectual decisions. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Building a university is unknowing? Since when?]]
u2021-05-25-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-05-25-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The sad fact is that you are also misleading the Hungarian people and the Hungarian public in the context of the university model change with the help of your speeches in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, We have discussed these issues many times here, and I have given a clear answer to all the questions that you have asked us here in Parliament. The most painful thing about your speeches is that we all know you're from the university sphere. You often refer to this. It's your rightful pride, by the way. As a former university citizen, as an ex-Senate member, you repeatedly question the decisions made by renowned academics, renowned professors, renowned Senate members in the Senate. Honourable Congressman, The question you should answer for once is what right you have to do it. What right do you have to question the decisions of the U.S. Senate? What right do you have to override the decision of excellent professors, excellent university people, members of the university senates? Moreover, honourable Member, allow me also to draw attention to the fact that, in contrast to what you said and what the left is regularly saying, the phenomenon of changing models is not a new thing, since our policy strategy for 2016 already included this objective. There, too, we have recorded and clearly stated the direction of the change of model. It would have been better for you to study and examine this document thoroughly than to falsely accuse Hungary of false involuntary charges in Brussels, because that is what you have done, honourable Member. Moreover, it is false that you fear for university autonomy, as it is clear that in the new legislative environment of renewed higher education, university autonomy will be stronger, universities in the new form of funding can operate more freely and flexibly, and respond more quickly to both scientific and economic needs. This is also the fundamental aim of the change of model, honourable Member: to provide more tasks, more resources and more room for manoeuvre for Hungarian universities. The anti-university, anti-educational left-wing policy of which you are also a supporter of as a university person, while it is an important decision for young Hungarians, as this decision will enable us to make higher education more competitive so that Hungarian young people can be more successful in their lives and have a more competitive degree. We have also said this several times, Mr honourable Member, but for your sake, I repeat once again that the promised improvements will be implemented. And it is completely incomprehensible to what you have just said that if we are to achieve it from Brussels resources, then the problem is that when it comes to domestic sources, it is also a problem for you. [[15.30]] One thing is important to us: these improvements will be implemented, even if they are supported, and even if they are not. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-25-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2021-05-25-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, His reply, which contained traces of professionalism, is unfortunately not in my power to accept. A quick correction: the report you said was not about Brussels, it was about your fantasy, but I had a report on academic freedom and university autonomy for 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, which has its seat in Strasbourg, but that has been confused by Viktor Orbán once, so he followed in the footsteps of great predecessors, Mr Secretary of State. On the other hand, the good news, which I send to all my former university leaders and university citizens, is that the national unity government, which stood up in 22nd, in which Jobbik will play a serious role as the only right-wing political party of the opposition on a Christian-social basis, will provide a way for the Senate to really make a free decision on this and return to state reservations. Thank you, Secretary of State, I do not accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-25-84	Thank you very much. So the congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki and Miklós Seszták, representatives of the Christian Democratic People's Party, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, How does the budget of 2022 help to restart the economy? It's an address. Congressman Miklós Seszták has the floor.
u2021-05-25-85	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, At the end of the week, Hungary reached another milestone in defeating the crown virus: we reached the five million first inoculated, which means that more than half of Hungary's population had already received the first vaccination. Thus, it is possible to remove further restrictions in the spirit of gradual opening. In addition to opening up, re-launching the economy is a key priority. Based on data from the period prior to the Crown Virus crisis, Hungarians were one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe. Thanks to government measures and the economic recovery after the coronal virus epidemic, the performance of the Hungarian economy can be increased by 4.3 percent in 2021 and 5.2 percent in 2022 after the halt in 2020. Last week we saw that in the first quarter of 2021 Hungarian economic performance, adjusted seasonally and calendarly, exceeded the previous quarter by 1.9 percent, which also exceeded consensus-based expectations. The most important task of the Fidesz-KDNP administration following a coronal virus epidemic is to restart the economy. The promotion of Hungarian families and businesses, the creation of job-creating investments, the extensive development of health and higher education infrastructure all contribute to giving the Hungarian economy a boost that will allow Hungary to rise to the best countries of the European Union by 2030. Dear Secretary of State, The budget submitted by the Government for 2022 is the budget for the re-launch of the country. The challenges caused by the coronal virus epidemic give Hungary a chance to become one of the winning countries of the new world economic era after the epidemic. This led to the launch of the Economic Restart Action Plan, the largest economic programme in the history of modern Hungary. Under the programme, the budget provides more than HUF 7300 billion in 2022 for priority programmes, development, investment and measures to promote employment. Businesses and people working can count on government support in 2022. Instead of tax increases and cuts, we will achieve a reduction in labour taxes and the continuation of investment programmes. Preserving and increasing jobs and supporting investment remains a priority for the government, and public investment in record amounts will be made at EU level, which can reach 6.5 percent of GDP. Inquiring about the details, I ask the Secretary of State [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , how the 2022 budget will help re-launch the economy and what the government priorities of the budget are.
u2021-05-25-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2021-05-25-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The budget submitted by the Government for 2022 is the budget for the relaunch of Hungary. Our country responded successfully to the economic challenges of the corona virus epidemic when we launched one of the most extensive economic protection programmes of all time. In addition, the challenges caused by the coronal virus epidemic are also a chance for our country to become one of the winners of the new world economy era after the outbreak. In this way, we launched the economic re-launch action plan. In 2022, the action plan guarantees 13 percent of next year's GDP, a total of HUF 7308 billion, which not only creates jobs for Hungarians, but also enables Hungary to return to an outstanding growth path in European comparison. I would now like to say some figures from the 2022 budget. The budget contains HUF 3883 billion of national resources. Of which: 610 billion for supporting families, creating homes, protecting pensioners; 430 billion forints to help create new jobs and support employment; nearly 460 billion for health wage increases; also 460 billion forints for infrastructure improvements; 870 billion forints for the preparation and implementation of investments; 91 billion forints for the development of tourism; more than 77 billion forints for the development of agriculture. The second framework of the action plan is more than HUF 3000 billion of EU funds to re-launch the economy and mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic. Finally, as a third framework, the various tax and contribution reductions and their elements are included in the action plan. With the existing living benefits, the government leaves more than HUF 420 billion in families and businesses. Businesses and working people can continue to count on government support. Instead of tax increases and cuts, we will achieve a reduction in labour taxes and the continuation of investment programmes. In 2022, additional taxes on labour will be reduced by 2 percent and young people under the age of 25 will be exempted from payment of the levy as of 1 January. Thanks to these two measures, more than 250 billion HUF stays with families, entrepreneurs, helping the economy start up as soon as possible. Families and children are the future of a nation, therefore, in addition to family protection measures, additional measures will help support families with children and children. As part of the home creation programme, we also support families moving into a new home with VAT and tax exemption in 2022, which will save HUF 170 billion next year. But the 13th month's retirement will begin and continue. Dear House, Dear Parliament, At the same time, the economic re-launch action plan aims to present three key government priorities. We focus on re-launching the economy, keeping it in this extraordinary situation during the fight against the epidemic. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the values that we have already represented, while targeting a stable economic growth path, the proposal also prioritises maintaining financial stability and responsible budgetary management. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-25-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Miklós Seszták to accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[15.40]]
u2021-05-25-89	Thank you for the floor. I can accept the Secretary of State's reply. It is very important that the action plan is successful, as this success gives the economic players the basis on which they can recover stronger after the economic crisis. It is very important that this is different from dealing with the 2008 crisis. Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Miklós Seszták. Dear Parliament, We will move on to our next item on the agenda, with immediate questions. Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Katalin Novak has given her the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-05-25-91	If you let us ask the question and you don't take the floor, we'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2021-05-25-92	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2021-05-25-93	I accept the Secretary of State's identity.
u2021-05-25-94	Thank you very much. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2021-05-25-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, before my immediate question, to list a chronological summary and inform you of the processes affecting Tapolca Hospital in recent years. In 2012, there was a change of structure at national and county level, which resulted in the creation of small regional hospitals, including the Tapolca hospital in Veszprém, which lost its active medical and active surgical departments in 2012. In 2018, thanks to a lengthy consultation with the then Secretary of State for Health, Dr. Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, the hospital in Tapolca received back 15 active medical beds out of the 50 beds lost, and I think the hospital used this to please those who were there and those who lived there. Then the pandemic came, and it was due to the pandemic or triggered by the fact that, in the third wave of the epidemic, there was, so to say, a structural redeployment in hospitals at county and nationwide level, so that from the hospital in Lipa the surgical and traumatic care went from Veszprém to Veszprém, and in Tapolca in 2020 there was no other disease, workers, or patients there. Now, another week ago, there was an agreement in the board of directors that stated that the lips hospital had regained its lost functions, that is, surgery and trauma. But the hospital in Tapolca didn't get its active medical beds back, and the territorial supply obligation belongs to the lip hospital. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is this: will this hospital, if so, when; if it is not returned or restored now, what is the cause, the current state of the epidemic or human resources? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-25-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-05-25-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we look at almost every hospital in Hungary, we can see that they have completely switched to an epidemic mode during the epidemic period, and this is not just the case in Hungary, but in almost every hospital. In thousands of cases, 3-4 thousand doctors were further trained to care for patients with coronal viruses, over 9,000 nurses were further trained during the summer to care for patients with coronal viruses, there was a new design for hospitals, walls were erected everywhere, they tried to isolate one of the other parts, they developed different zones, they built up the capacity for ventilators, everyone could see how the image of hospitals was changed because of the epidemic, and so they managed to achieve it, and therefore thanks to every hospital in Hungary, every hospital employee that could not have had a patient, a coronal virus patient, received the treatment for which they needed, say, a ventilator, or any medicine or medicine to treat it. The vaccine has been the most important tool to combat the epidemic in recent months. You know that Hungary is at the forefront of the world, it is among the 15 most displaced countries, that if we do not look at the smaller city states, and the sooner the whole health system can return to normal, as it did before, the sooner we can overcome the epidemic through vaccinations. If someone really wanted to do a lot in the past period in order to restore their original care in hospitals or in any other hospital in Hungary, they should have done not attacking vaccines, attacking vaccinations, not submitting a parliamentary resolution to try to ban Chinese and Russian vaccines [[György Szilágyi: That was not the question!]] It helps to get more people vaccinated as soon as possible. Today, in Hungary, there is a possibility that in countries richer than us, it is not possible to have an injection via the Internet, choosing a site, a time and a vaccine. You know that health is returning in several steps [[The president's ringing the bell.]] we are not yet at the last step to perform all of its previous functions, but we hope that this will happen as soon as possible as possible as a result of grafting. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-98	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-05-25-99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, you failed to answer my question with one sentence, and I think I've put it correctly. Once again, since November 2020, the ambulance to the hospital in Tapolca has not delivered patients, so there is no active care going on, but if Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's words can be believed, we have overcome the epidemic, elective benefits can be restarted, the classes can resume as they have done in his lips. I have one request: restore that form of care at Tapolca Hospital, those 15 medical beds, and re-initiate patient care. Once again, why couldn't he have started, since this transfer of functions took place at a county hospital director's meeting? Why couldn't he start: because there aren't enough doctors to give the 24-hour shift to active internal medicine, or have a different plan with Tapolca Hospital? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-25-100	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2021-05-25-101	Thank you very much. I can only repeat to you, honourable Member, that although there are more beds available in hospitals in the framework of normal care than, say, a month ago, health care has not yet been fully restored. [[Lajos Rig intervenes.]] Obviously, we're confident that in weeks, months, there will be so few patients with coronal virus, and there will be so little chance that new mutants will have to expand care. [[Lajos Rig: You are not participating in the Covid supply!]] that hospitals can operate as usual in all areas. [[György Szilágyi: He did not participate in the Covid supply!]] As regards the number of doctors, honourable Member, because this has been mentioned here for the second time, in 2002, at the end of the government of the civilian government and at the beginning of the left-wing government, there were 37 295 doctors and working doctors in Hungary, your new ally, the left-wing one. [[György Szilágyi: Tapolca Hospital!]] It reduced from 37,000 to 33 943, which increased to 41 282. If you look at how many doctors went abroad in 2010, you will see that 845 has fallen below 300, which means that 3173 fewer doctors have gone abroad from Hungary [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] As if they were emigration figures in the last year of left-wing governance. That's why (the president rings the bell. ) better care in Hungarian hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[György Szilágyi to Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You have no idea!]] Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister, without a wallet in charge of the management of national assets, an immediate question. What will happen to the state's wealth? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Fónagy gave the right to reply. I ask Congressman Mesterházy whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-05-25-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'd wait for the secretary. Thank you.
u2021-05-25-104	Thank you very much. The Minister must reply at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: why does the state not give more support to improve the quality of children's meals? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán asked for a reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding, or she asks the Minister for the answer in person.
u2021-05-25-105	I'll take it.
u2021-05-25-106	You have the floor, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. [[15.50]]
u2021-05-25-107	Thank you very much. Dear House, I can't start any other way, but with one word, it's a shame. Because what they're doing with a baby meal is shameful, inhuman, and anti-childish. In kindergartens, daycare centers, dormitory cafets, parents pay the cost of the food standard. According to the Child Protection Act, this fee should be set by the municipalities by 1 April of each year. We know that Fidesz is causing the forint to weaken, food prices to become brutally expensive, so we can only buy less or less quality raw materials from the current cost of food, which means that the cost to children is reduced or reduced. What does Fidesz do? It simply forbids raising the cost of eating children. Because children have enough food to eat less or worse? The one that comes out of the old bill? But it's nothing! You also prohibit the municipality from accepting an increase in the price of food. For example, the municipality of Tata wanted to solve this by paying the extra cost of the menu fee by the municipality. However, the Komárom-Esztergom county government office forbade this, they said, and I quote: the municipal decree cannot serve to document the municipal takeover of the increased raw material standard. That is, because of you, children can't be given more food even if the local authorities accept this fee, and it would certainly cost families nothing. In this regard, why do you want children to starve? Why do they forbid the increase in the fee and the authorities to accept the cost of it from the parents? When will it be possible for municipalities to accept this additional cost? And finally, aren't you ashamed? ! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You haven't spent a third of your money on it!]]
u2021-05-25-108	I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2021-05-25-109	Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There is a special charm that you, in the middle of a pandemic, are fighting to raise various cost charges in different contexts, remembering nothing, learning nothing. We believe that eating children is important, which is why it is growing year after year, in fact the amount of budget resources spent on this since 2010. If you'll allow me, I'd like to read you the numbers, although you could have done the same. In 2010, this amount amounted to HUF 31 billion. From 2014 onwards, I would say again: 55 billion, 64 in 15 and 71 billion in 16 and 73 in 17 and 79-79 in 18-19. Thank God, I can tell you that last year, despite the coronal virus epidemic, it has increased to HUF 82.5 billion, to HUF 86 billion this year, so despite the coronal virus epidemic, HUF 3.5 billion more will be spent on this very important public policy goal. If you look at the draft budget for next year, you will find that 87.5 billion HUF is available, with this amount we want to improve the children's meal. 80% of children in daycare and kindergarten eat free. I wish we could say that it would have been the same in 2008-2009 during the previous crisis. You have withdrawn funds from this sector, and we are putting additional subsidies into it despite the crisis. Indeed, it is true, not only in relation to fees, but also in relation to tax increases and other stories, that we believe that people should be helped in times of crisis, that businesses should be helped, rather than burdened by the burden of their watch. It's a reverse philosophy. We certainly won't agree. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, representative of DK... [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: I'd still like to respond!]] Excuse me, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2021-05-25-111	Thank you very much. I am afraid that the Secretary of State has problems with the interpretation of the text, which is why I am trying to make it even more understandable: that if you forbid raising the child's meal fee, you will reduce the dose or quality. The children will not eat the lousy food, however you want it, and less or less money will get worse, and if you forbid the additional costs to the municipalities to accept it, you will indeed condemn the children to hunger or a lower quality lunch. Is that clear? At least I hope so. I could describe to what extent the price of which food has risen over the past period, and I could obviously put that to sunrise. So I definitely want you to help the children. But at least tell me, Mr. Secretary, why you are forbidding municipalities from giving a normal dose of good quality food to children. Answer that for all the bullshit. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2021-05-25-112	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2021-05-25-113	Thank you for the floor. Once again, Congresswoman, we are thinking that this area should be covered by the state. The state should help children in kindergartens, nursery schools, small schools and, by the way, attend schools to obtain good quality food. This is also a social issue and a family policy issue on our part. The single-dose aid has increased from HUF 370 to HUF 570 in eight years for low-tax settlements. The available budgetary resources, which are growing year after year, are therefore sufficient to cover this area. We believe that families, parents, do not need additional resources. If we disagree on this, the difference of opinion will remain between us. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-114	Thank you very much, Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for the families: "Stain to the bag, or the truth of Lord Acton." Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor.
u2021-05-25-115	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would particularly like to welcome the Minister, even because if anyone knows the truth, then you must know the truth. Mr. Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, convinced my colleague Anett Bősz that the Hungarian government really appreciates women just over an hour ago. If someone, Minister, you know that this is not the case; even if Hungary was among the initiators of the manifesto 'Constitution in Geneva', to which the worst countries in the world are also part from the point of view of women's rights, such as Egypt, Iraq, Sudan, and could be classified. The 32 signatories are simply referred to as the Anti-Abortion League or Anti-Abortion Coalition, and of the EU countries only Poland has signed this, the Poland that has recently banned abortion. And while in your interview with Breitbart on the extreme right, you claim that the pro-life of abortion is a pro-murder, I must admit that there is still hope in me that you are not proposing a plan to tighten up abortion for Hungary. But you are also the chairman of the Political Network for Values, for example, and you are working with ultra-conservative groups like the world's leading anti-gay lobby, which supports, for example, the death penalty in Uganda for homosexuality; or the Catholic family and human rights institute, which fights against information about sexual diseases, because they believe it is about promoting condom use. But your partner, for example, is the freedom association against school sexual education and the ten-year threat of homosexuality to the justice of Belize. Madam Secretary! Your appointment was probably a hit by the Prime Minister, and I'd say the bag found its spot. My question is, as a woman, you can look into the eyes of the women you betrayed for a ministerial seat. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-116	Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause?]] I give the floor to Minister Katalin Novak.
u2021-05-25-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Honourable Congressman, I've been trying to unplug what your question really is. I'm not necessarily saying that I did it, and I trust that it's not my fault, and I don't think I'm the only one in this room. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No.]] He said all kinds of things. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári:]] I'm so honored that you're following who I've exchanged e-mails with in my life. But I think that we should focus on the potential for women in Hungary today, what we could actually do to prevent a woman from feeling on a forced course. I can say this as a working woman, as a mother of three, because it is a challenge for all of us to reconcile family life with work challenges. [[16.00]] We want both women and men to live in Hungary in harmony with each other, helping each other, supporting their everyday lives, and sharing tasks both in the labour market and at home in family life. This is supported by our support for women as well as by our actions to help families. I could mention the ged extra here, which allowed a mother with small children to return to the labour market while receiving all family support, regardless of whether she is working full-time or at home with her children; we are not shortening it in this sense. Even if children are born in a rapid succession, all family support will be given to these mothers. But I can also say the nursery constructions, which allowed women to have early employment in the labour market. So it is possible for a mother to stay at home with her child for up to three years, since we have restored the third year child you just married, and the mothers also have the opportunity to work alongside the baby, but thanks to your grandparents, they can also share the parenting of children. Clearly, it is no coincidence that women's employment in Hungary is constantly increasing. I hope that Hungarian women feel that they are getting more opportunities and that they are not on forced careers in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-118	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-05-25-119	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Madam Secretary, It's very sad that you didn't understand my question. So again, as a woman, can you look into the eyes of the women you have failed for a ministerial seat? Madam Secretary, before you became such a great man, you were thinking like a modern woman today. He wrote, among other things, that you are very important to your children, but he would like to have his own life with them, and that he could finally benefit from his degrees. Well, you have obviously succeeded, but you don't seem to think it's important for other women in Hungary to succeed. Therefore, living truth is the truth of Lord Acton, who says power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts. That's why it's important that Klára Dobrev [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány The Eye-Killer!]] Prime Minister of the Democratic Coalition to lead the next government, because I am fully aware that he will not deny women or his principles today. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Nor Ferenc Gyurcsány.]] He will not forget the rights of women or minorities for whom he is fighting today, nor will he, as Prime Minister, think that every family should be like his family. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-120	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2021-05-25-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, As a woman, I can say that on the one hand I would like a man in Hungary not to feel that he can speak here on behalf of women who have not asked him to do so. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] On the other hand, I would like us to be able to live in Hungary in such a way that we can avoid these personal comments, and a male Member would not feel the need to insult me personally. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-122	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, leader of the group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Katalin Novak has given her the right to reply. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-05-25-123	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-124	Thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for her answer in person.
u2021-05-25-125	I'll take it.
u2021-05-25-126	He'll take it. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor.
u2021-05-25-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, And Madam Secretary, who is unfortunately not here. I would have liked to have asked a woman a question on this issue, but unfortunately, I have failed to do so. We're women, we're strong, we're often weak, and we can't always defend ourselves. I have spoken here several times about domestic and inter-relationship violence. A lot of times I get letters from women who may be in trouble, who in many cases are not getting the right help. It may also be a problem that they don't know who to turn to, but they certainly don't always get the right level of help. The abusers are under a lot of pressure, both because they are ashamed of themselves, and unfortunately, victim error is still fashionable in Hungary, and they are also afraid of repeated abuse and of being misunderstood by the authorities. It can be seen that it is difficult to prove this type of crime, and therefore it would be necessary to set up an effective institutional system to help prevent, protect and assist victims. Domestic violence has specific features that would justify distinguishing it from other violent crimes. There should be a comprehensive, cross-cutting regulation and a change of perspective, as this is not a private matter. Domestic violence, inter-relationship violence is not a private matter. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he is planning to establish some sort of systemic regulation, a more effective institutional system, which would really be able to combat these acts of violence, and perhaps help not to have so much latency on this issue. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2021-05-25-128	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2021-05-25-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I believe that we can always agree on these issues, because it is a joint effort to reduce such acts as much as possible. The government was also committed to combating contact violence and protecting children, women and families during the coronal virus epidemic. So we always interpret it extensibly, and we are not talking about family violence, we are talking about relationship violence, precisely to cover the whole circle, including those who do not suffer this kind of abuse in a family context. In fact, during the coronal virus epidemic, there was a greater lock-in and closure, and therefore we expanded the capacities. Recently, we have launched an opportunity for anonymous chatter to signal those in distress. The government wants to provide as much assistance as possible to victims of contact violence, which is why we spend more resources each year, so we are expanding the supply system. In this context, we provide legal and psychological assistance. If necessary, we provide shelters to victims of contact violence in cooperation with civil society organisations. At the same time, we need not only professionals who can help in a difficult situation, but also those who can meet victims of contact violence in their work to recognize the signs of this. It is important, for example, that teachers, policemen, or judges receive training and information that teaches them what signs they need to pay attention to in order to provide help. Today, there are many such teachers and law enforcement workers. Vansegitseg.hu victim support portal has been created to combine the image of victim support centers, where constantly refreshing content is used to avoid victimisation, and the opportunities with which victims can live are presented. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2021-05-25-131	Thank you very much for the floor. There are indeed measures and legal restrictions, and this must be acknowledged. However, I think that in this case, in the same way as in the case of child abuse, it proves to be little, and I could imagine, for example, social advertisements in which we draw attention to this, because many victims do not dare to turn to the authorities. There really are a lot of people writing, and some people go to hell, and in the end, they're gonna be the defendants after some weird legal thing. Yeah, it's really hard to decide, and it's a real abuse. I also get it a lot because I'm sure it's being abused; yes, that's possible. I think that the main thing is to prevent these acts of violence and to dare the victims to stand up for themselves and turn to the authorities. Sensitivity would be necessary. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2021-05-25-133	I would like to inform you that since 2017, we have spent 800 million HUF to help victims of relationship violence on the part of the IM. We trained volunteer professionals, organised communication campaigns, studied specifically the communication habits of the 16-29-year-olds representing the risk, and developed an anonymous chat service for them. [[16.10]] The project "Development of crisis management services" was implemented with the support of the government and the European Union. The implementation of the project was supported by the Hungarian Association of Soul Aids and the Association of Mental Hygiene for Youth. The aim is to help victims of contact violence and trafficking in human beings more effectively and to prevent serious crises. A further goal is to ensure that a wide range of society really learns about the possibilities of asking for help and supporting forms of service, thereby further reducing individual vulnerability and thus ensuring that as few future cases as possible occur. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Katalin Novak has given her the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-05-25-135	We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2021-05-25-136	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: When will the City Park be returned to Elisabeth and Terézváros? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for an answer in person.
u2021-05-25-137	I'll take it.
u2021-05-25-138	You have the floor, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio.
u2021-05-25-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, City Park has been a big construction site for several years now. In Annex VI, point VII is replaced by the following: district dwellers have been avoiding cordons, machinery for years, suffering from noise, noise, dust. They cannot take possession of the park in its entirety, because the government uses the largest public park in Budapest as a building parade area. The long - running constructions are not being completed, and they are becoming ever more expensive. The House of Hungarian Music was announced with the end of 2019; the handover is now in December 2021, and the price has been increased from 19 billion to 23 billion. The Museum of Ethnography was designed for opening in July 2021, now redesigned for March 2022, and the cost went from 26 billion to 40 billion. Thank God, in the last municipal elections, the Budapesters decided that they did not want to see more buildings in the City Park, including the new National Gallery, the House of Innovation and the City Park Theatre. But these areas are still isolated from visitors to the park. The Elisabeth City Council recently adopted a resolution proposal by a large majority calling on the government to hand over the park to local residents. Dear Secretary of State, When will they start repairing and parking the areas listed, when will the cordons be dismantled, when will the City Park be returned to the people of Budapest in the area, especially with regard to the epidemic situation? So when are they gonna give the City Park back to the people of Elizabeth and Teresa? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-05-25-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2021-05-25-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that, in the context of the development of the Liget, according to all available polls and the figures that will be presented, the debate is not between us and the people, but between politicians who are trying to build political capital on it. The people who have been in the City Park for the past few years disagree with you. Allow me to give you some numbers and data. As part of the project, nearly 150 thousand square meters of green surface have been renewed in Városliget, 72 thousand square meters of surface covered, nearly 500 leafy trees, more than 70,000 shrubs, more than 140,000 perennials have been planted. Thanks to the project, the proportion of green surfaces increased from 60 per cent to 65 per cent. The project elements provided so far are popular, and the number of visitors to the City Park has been increased. More than 1.5 million visitors visited the renovated sites in the City Park, including, of course, the Erzsébetvárosi and Terézvárosi. The Museum of Fine Arts has also received more than 600,000 visitors, 10 thousand visitors have been visited on weekends at the Main Playground in Városliget, with a total of 500,000 visitors so far. The Millennium House has been visited by more than 100,000 people since its opening, and the dog adventure park has already received over 600,000 visitors. Apart from that, the Blind Garden and the Youth Sports Hall are very popular. I don't know what hurts you, Congressman, the dog park, the Millennium House, the playground, the Blind Garden or the Youth Sports Park, but I think that neither the people of Elisabeth and Terézváros are hurting, they are supporting these investments, and we will continue to renew the City Park according to the timetable laid down so far. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-142	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-05-25-143	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, That wasn't the question. The question was, from the places you use for dumping and parade, when you retire, when you return the park. That was the question. I suggest you take a walk and talk to people on Dózsa György Street, Benczúr Street, Damjanich Street, with those who live in the area and have been suffering for years with the dirt, the noise that comes with the construction. I suggest you walk around and talk. I believe that 1 percent doesn't go to City Park, but 99 percent, Mr. Secretary of State, goes to City Park, VI, VII. district citizens go there. So if you'll be so kind as to move the stuff from where they left the mess until summer, clean up and hand over the park to the locals, because the locals want to use it.
u2021-05-25-144	The possibility of rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State.
u2021-05-25-145	Thank you for the floor. I'm always having fun at 99-1 percent. If 99 percent includes Ferenc Gyurcsány, I do not know if the vast majority of Hungarian citizens would agree. He's part of your alliance. I think 99 percent is more on the other side, but let's leave it at that. The fact is that a park renewal is taking place and a cultural quarter development is taking place. These, of course, involve work, of course they are difficult, but all the project elements provided prove that the investment was worth it. The political hystericalism that you have done with playgrounds, the Garden of the Blind, the youth park and all such investments is unacceptable, and the people of Budapest know it, and those who use the City Park, and Terézváros, the people of Erzsébetváros, know it. So the sooner the political hysteria in this area is stopped, the sooner the investments can be completed properly. I'd like your support on this one, please. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What additional means does the Government support in the fight against pedophilia? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Pál Völner has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for her answer in person.
u2021-05-25-147	Yes, I accept your response.
u2021-05-25-148	Thank you very much. It is for Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi.
u2021-05-25-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Fundamental Law of Hungary protects families in particular and protects children's interests, rights and the right to protection and care necessary for physical, mental and moral development. We believe that this can be agreed in society, of course the abuse of children in society is unacceptable, and we hope that this opinion is also among the walls of Parliament, among those sitting here. In order to protect our children, we have made dozens of amendments to the Criminal Code over the last decade. We did this in order to try to deter pedophile criminals from children. But in many cases, we have also modified child protection laws, so that we can recognize them as soon as possible, as soon as possible, if children are abused. [[16.20]] Unfortunately, further steps are needed, and therefore, under the leadership of Mr Máté Kocsis, we have drawn up a package of laws, which include the following proposals. So a searchable pedophile register should be established for those who have committed sexual crimes to harm children. We need to tighten the criminal code, the current penalties, where possible, to double. It is very important to ban pedophiles from a number of additional jobs in order not to get close to children. Serious paedophile crimes can no longer lapse and mild penalties and conditional release should be excluded in the future. I asked the question in the title, and I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2021-05-25-150	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2021-05-25-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Every decent, normal-minded person sees every pedophile act as sick, intolerable, unacceptable, which is a serious crime, and action, whoever the perpetrator is, is justified. Article 16 of the Fundamental Law lays down as the right of children the right to protection and care necessary for adequate physical, mental and moral development. This type of crime can cause an inaccessible break in the lives of children and can irreversibly negatively affect their physical and mental development. Sexual crimes against children can have serious psychological and physical consequences. These consequences are even more frequent and serious if the perpetrator is a family member, a close acquaintance or a person with whom the child has a personal relationship, who he or she may feel that, in view of his or her social situation or because of his or her role in the child's life, he or she can have absolute confidence. For this reason, it is of the utmost importance for individuals who have direct contact with children to have trust in them in all cases. There have already been areas, such as education and health, as mentioned by the congresswoman, where there has been an employment ban, but they need to be further expanded. Pedophiles should not work in workplaces related to leisure, entertainment, sports, such as beach, amusement park, zoo, sports club, as their chances of getting close to minors are significantly reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, The revision of legislation must not take place in an unthinkable way. It is of particular importance that we find an appropriate professional balance in the definition of individualisation, non-circumstantial criminal behaviour that allows judicial discretion, and the circumstances that constitute a threat to increased society. This can be achieved after careful professional preparation, taking into account the experience of the law enforcement staff.
u2021-05-25-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Selmeczi has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2021-05-25-153	Thank you very much. Any such paedophile crime is freaking out, and it is also incomprehensible when the child is sexually assaulted by the relative. So we must act with sufficient rigour and foresight. The Secretary of State has also left open a number of options, either in the Criminal Code or in other legislation, where it is still possible to tighten up and act in the interests of children. You can, of course, disenfranchise the profession, expand the range of occupations, and extend the classified cases, and we can think further about that. Thank you very much for your answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-154	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2021-05-25-155	Thank you very much. In addition to legislation, it is important to carefully analyse the acts of child abuse, to assess the case law and to establish facts that will ensure the most effective action to harm children against sex offenders. By confirming Mr Máté Kocsis' announcement, I would like to inform the House that the child protection package to be presented will include the adoption of more severe penalties and measures than we are now. This, of course, will be supported by the government to answer the question, and I ask you to support these child protection proposals, so that our children can have a calmer future. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of State at the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "How long will they win at Lake Balaton? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán asked for a reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding, or she asks the Minister for the answer in person. [[Anita Kőrösi: I accept, thank you very much.]] He accepts that Congresswoman Anita Kotocsány Kőrösi should take the floor.
u2021-05-25-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As long as you have used the last 11 years to kidnap the Balaton completely, we have desperate citizens who turn to us because this process is unstoppable. They have just done this from Zamárdi, where you have authorized a public park fence that has been pulled up in front of residential property, and the main architect has raised serious concerns in the city on the basis of a demand for data of general interest. They did so because the kayak-kenu alliance had to secure a location to realise the idea of placing a kayak-kenu point in Zamárdi. There's a very long beach, yet you built this kayak-kenu base right in front of the residential properties, and you did it with a high fence. I was at the scene, and I would suggest that you go out there and see what it's like to have a building set up in front of a residential property just to ensure that your pals, the stooges, make that profit, because we could say that, and it's not exaggerating, because based on the lease and operating contracts from the municipality, it can be established that here Wintersport Kft. was provided with this area for 500 HUF/square meters. It's quite simply outrageous what you've done over the past few years, and apparently you don't want to stop, and you're using these ten months to do everything you can, and you're taking the last square meters, the last free square meters at Lake Balaton. So I ask the Secretary of State: how long do you plan to keep this profiteering at Lake Balaton? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-25-158	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2021-05-25-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The project mentioned by you is part of the GINOP economic development and innovation operational programme entitled The complex development of the water tourism of Lake Balaton, supported by an invitation to develop infrastructure for active tourism networks. The task of the beneficiary consortium is primarily to create an active tourism network, to develop related infrastructure and to acquire assets. A general requirement for such an EU-funded project is to help tourists and visitors as well as small and medium-sized enterprises linked to the site, thus outsourcing of operational tasks is not only possible under the call, but is an EU requirement for more activities. In the present case, the operating company was selected by the municipality of Zamárdi in its representative board decision, and the contract concluded by the parties was drawn up in the light of the rules on the use of GINOP resources, in which it is expected that the property protection of the buildings of sports facilities and the water sports equipment stored there should be ensured, and in order to do so, certain physical fences can be provided. In this context, the fence you mentioned also took place. Once again, this is a municipal project, in this context, the Government of Hungary has no responsibility other than to watch over compliance with the law. So I would like to ask you to ask the municipalities concerned. I would like to add one thing, however, that this investment is in the interest of the people on the shore of Lake Balaton or not. I think it serves as a whole, so it is not worth pouring out the baby along with the bath water. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-160	Thank you very much. Congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder. [[16.30]]
u2021-05-25-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is about the fact that the construction rules apply to everyone, and in the law itself, the settlement law also includes the possibility of surrounding a public park only in particularly justified cases. You have to go to the crime scene, and you have to see that there is a way to move it a lot further, and not to put these fences up in front of residential property. And it's amazing that you're referring to property protection, by the way, by storing these sports equipment in storage; by the way, if anyone goes to the scene, that's what you see. So it's quite simply amazing that my question is not answered, of course, it is possible to go to the municipality, only you forced it to the municipality, because they have been told from above that they do issue permits for this fence to be erected. It's quite simply scandalous, and I refuse. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-25-162	Thank you, Congresswoman. You also have the opportunity to respond in return to the Secretary of State.
u2021-05-25-163	Forgive me, honourable Member, I am trying to maintain my seriousness, because, by the way, it is an important subject, and the only problem is that dealing with such matters and seeing such complex relationships, it cannot be so politically vagrant. So you have two problems: Zamárdi, the residents there, the body of representatives who decided to start the project, and the other is the European Union, who gives Hungary the resources by otherwise complying with such legal and other requirements. I don't know who you have a bigger problem with, the European Union or the Zamardi, but I'm sure you have a serious problem with someone. I would like to ask you, Madam Congresswoman, the next time you bring this type of matter to the house of the country, you should first be informed of the situation. It is in the interest of all of us to have free beaches, to use the environment of Lake Balaton for everyone, and otherwise to develop the area, because it is important for the people who live there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We should work together in this coordinate system, which is because of your political hysteria. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is the opinion on the effectiveness of Eastern vaccines? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person of the responding person, or personally from the Minister...
u2021-05-25-165	Thank you, yes.
u2021-05-25-166	It says yes. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor.
u2021-05-25-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This weekend we arrived at another milestone in the battle against the corona virus. We have reached and now we have exceeded the first 5 million inoculated people, which is a truly unique performance not only in Europe but also worldwide. As a result, according to the social need expressed in the national consultation, we have reached another stage of gradual opening: curfew, compulsory masking in public spaces, shops and restaurants can be open without restrictions, and weddings can be held again up to 200 people. It is important to stress that this is possible because more than 50 percent of Hungary's population received the first vaccination. As we know, the left tried to fight the epidemic by calling for dictatorship and refusing to give the government the necessary emergency authority. The left called the use of Russian and Chinese vaccines a human experiment, even though the World Health Organization has now recognised the effectiveness of the Chinese vaccine. They also attacked the registration procedure, called it unnecessary, and said that the data of the registered persons were being misused. However, it has been proven that registration has made the vaccination process transparent and easier and that there has been no abuse of the data of the citizens. The majority of Hungarians see through Ferenc Gyurcsány and his allies' political power games, and is aware that all left-wing efforts against vaccines threaten the physical health of the population and hinder the re-launch of the economy. Domestic vaccination is successful despite the left-wing anti-vaccination campaign, the number of people registered and vaccinated is constantly increasing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what his opinion is on the effectiveness of Eastern vaccines. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-168	I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2021-05-25-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In order to prevent the European Union and prevent the US from being vaccinated, Eastern vaccines were also needed. If we hadn't relied on both the Russian and the Chinese vaccine, there would have been a lot more diseases, a lot more hospital cases, and unfortunately there would have been more deaths. But Hungary was able to respond faster, we were able to inoculate more, we could start lifting epidemic restrictions sooner, and indeed there are few indicators in which Hungary has better performance than the EU average and better performance than the United States of America, but grafting is such an area. Thank you to everyone who has helped in this regard: rennet doctors, nurses, vaccination organizers, that we could get to this point, that now we don't have to wear masks in public areas, and a lot of life has returned to normal. Unfortunately, those who cannot be thanked on this issue are the Hungarian left. The Hungarian left declared in November that he would do nothing in Brussels but try to prevent the arrival of Eastern vaccines in Hungary. In Hungarian, anti-vaccination programs were carried out, anti-vaccination policies were carried out. They did not argue with Hungary, not only with the government, but with the World Health Organization, because the vaccine Sino-pharm vaccine that they attacked, which they still have in place today, is a submitted proposal to prohibit Sinopharm in a parliamentary decision proposal, a vaccine that is authorised by the World Health Organisation. Such an irresponsible policy was carried out by the Hungarian left. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] I quote literally the own petitions of the DKs who are now shouting, which they themselves have started, that this vaccine is uncertain in its effectiveness, untested, unknown content and unknown, and that is why they protest and want to ban a vaccine that the World Health Organization offers in all countries of the world. The anti-vaccination of the Hungarian left was extremely irresponsible if anyone listened to them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Even today, hundreds of thousands more, even millions more, would be at risk of coronal virus infection. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-25-171	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Thanks to the successful acquisition of the government vaccine, there are enough vaccines available, all Hungarians who want to be vaccinated can get vaccinated. And let us not forget to draw the attention of those who are unsure. Please register because this is extremely important in order to fully reboot life and protect their health. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-172	You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-25-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, it is amazing, even in recent days, Klára Dobrev, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, said on a video channel that in the short term the vaccination did not save lives. They're still talking about people who haven't been vaccinated, and they're still trying to talk him out of giving the vaccine. After all, they counted on it, and not only in secret closed discussions, but also told a foreign newspaper that the longer the epidemic takes, the more health victims it has, the more economic sacrifices it has, the more dissatisfaction with the government, and the greater the opportunity for the left to seize power in 2022. It is a rare irresponsible, rare repulsive thing to say when it comes to the grabbing of political power. So harshly, so clearly, very few times we can see the heartlessness, inhumanity and cruelty that the left has done, that they can do anything for power. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. László Varju, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. I ask Congressman Varju whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2021-05-25-175	Yes, thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-176	You have the floor, Congressman László Varju.
u2021-05-25-177	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, There is no analytical consensus behind it, but rumors say that if there is great discontent in the country, Fidesz will be saved by the village in the elections. The polls show, of course, that the awakening village is no longer a stable base for Fidesz as much as you would like, although they are willing to lie a lot for it, we have seen or heard it before, and they are even trying to deceive them with TV2's sports channel party state fake commercials. [[16.40]] So far, they have acted in the spirit of this concept, which means that they didn't care about the villages, but at least they lied to them in the year before the election; a milk powder factory, a gas station, or a cabbage processing plant such as Váncsad. Then none of them ever became anything, just another media violence to dishonor the people who live in the villages. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) Let's say it. Fidesz-KDNP abandoned and betrayed the most deprived of villages. You, as the right-wing compensation organizer and your buddy's land dealer, have robbed the villages of the air, the opportunity to work, of their land. The farmland was played into the hands of oligarchs and put the village population in a vulnerable position. When are you going to do something for the people of the wilderness? When do you want to do something for a garden-Hungary, if not now, when the European Union can really help you? Here's the new Marshall plan, and you're betraying the people of the villages again, Mr. Secretary of State? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2021-05-25-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2021-05-25-179	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I listened to your speech, and if you hadn't said the subjects, then at first I would have thought with such vehemency that it was certain that the rural policy of socialist-free democratic governance before 2010 could be discussed, and then the very strong signs you used would also be correct. Indeed, that period was a tragedy for the Hungarian countryside. The agricultural sector has been cut off by you, the village schools have been shut down, the transport facilities have been disabled, and otherwise all existing tasks have been allocated to the municipalities without a source. On the other hand, our logic is completely different, our aim is to renew rural Hungary, to strengthen the economic and demographic strength of the countryside. This program is on several feet. You mentioned agriculture. We are taking exactly what is not in another EU Member State, that we have reversed the part of agricultural resources and added an 80% supplement. This is an unprecedented support for the Hungarian countryside in a pan-European context. There are also 2,872 settlements under five thousand in the framework of the operational programmes for territorial and urban development, 4142 projects, more than 446 billion. These are not the billions stolen, but the ones that served the development of the smallest settlements. Within the framework of the RRF plan, which you call the Marshall Plan, we also provide assistance to 300 settlements in the most difficult situation, up to a total of HUF 77 billion. I do not understand why, if this goal is so important to you, why you did not support the project, why you did not support the programme, and why you did not support the Hungarian government, and I did not even talk about the program of the Hungarian village, which will be the next time. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2021-05-25-181	Dear Secretary of State, Here is the plan you have submitted. From this plan, you have excluded 30,000 people per year for ophthalmic, dental screening, 18,000 children for development, 125 kindergarten workers, and I could tell you what else you took out because you don't want to support the people of the villages. Why did they take it out of this, since from 2013 onwards they gave a total of HUF 38 billion of the nearly 20,000 billion that you have spent in the last ten years? And now, what you refer to: 77 billion forints from a plan of 18 000 billion forints, Mr. Secretary of State? What you do for the people, for the villages is unacceptable. They're not gonna do anything about it, so they're gonna get you out of here. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You mean the program of the Hungarian village?]]
u2021-05-25-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2021-05-25-183	Honourable Congressman, I understand that your policy is based on the different foreign loans, coming from the IMF, coming from the European Union, coming from the market, making use of them, that's what they're designed for, you're programmed to do at cell level. [[László Varju: Once again, Mr. Secretary of State. Let's do it again.]] I would also like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that there is a Hungarian budget. So the fact that something isn't in a plan doesn't mean it's in another plan. By the way, I would ask you, if your governance was so fantastic, then why didn't you announce the Hungarian village programme. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've declared a village destruction!]] Then why didn't they do that in the financial crisis of 2008-2009, the budget for the announced programme was constantly increased? Resources have been removed from education, health care, rural development. What are we talking about? There will be budgetary resources for everything, either from EU funds or from Hungarian budgetary resources. This was not the case under your government, and God forbid it won't happen again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the next item on the agenda, and the questions will follow. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What is the cause of violent crimes against an increasing number of people in the Nagykunság and Lake Tisza? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2021-05-25-185	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The year 2021 did not start very clearly in the Nagykunság or in the area of Lake Tisza, as reports of crimes involving violent crimes against persons have become increasingly common. To give examples, on 23 January 2021, Kenderes, a stranger entered the residential house where he beat the person with a brick and then took his valuables. On 1 March 2021, an elderly woman was assaulted at the neighbouring Kisújház. It was only an experimental course, but they also wanted to take away its values. On April 16, 2021, there was a robbery in Karcagon, where juveniles entered the house, assaulted the resident and took the money and value there. On 24 April 2021 there was also a robbery in Abadszalok, near Lake Tisza, where valuables were taken after the abuse of the owner. And that's just the tip of the iceberg, because at the beginning of the year, the press all over the country was loud from the fact that a mother in Carcagi was killed and buried by her partner and covered up the crime trail. He got busted later. These sad acts are all events of the past few months. With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, how the number of violent crimes and robberies in the Nagykunság and in the area of Lake Tisza developed. What is the reason for the violent crime at the beginning of the year that disrupts public peace? Does the police have the capacity to carry out the public safety task, in particular by taking part in the epidemiological defense? We would also like to thank them for their work here. Is it really true that in the police department, a large proportion of the staff are considering leaving the stock, decommissioning when the extraordinary legal order is over? If so, what will the Ministry of the Interior do about it? Thank you for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-25-186	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2021-05-25-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In 2010, the government set a goal to restore order and public security in Hungary. As a result, the number of crimes has fallen to a third compared to 2010, honourable Member. Hungary's public security is currently balanced and solid, it can be said that Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe. I would also like to thank the police of Hungary for carrying out task number three, since it works to protect public security and internal security, protects the southern borders, and has also taken part in the fight against the epidemic. Thank you to all the officers, all the professionals involved in this very important task. The number of crimes committed in the public domain decreased by more than half in the first two months of 2021. What you have asked me to inform you of the crimes that, in the cases mentioned in your question, the arrest and detention of suspects took place within 24 hours of being brought to the attention of the authority in all the cases referred to. Criminal proceedings are ongoing. The Karcag Police Department has increased its investigative performance rate, much higher in the case of most crimes than in the previous year. Robbery crime occurred in three cases in the last year, which is the lowest value of the last 11 years. The results of these crimes increased from 71.4 percent in 2019 to 100 percent in the last year. Based on this year's data, the number of crimes recorded in the police department's own procedures was 133, which is 40.9 percent lower than in the same period of the previous year. [[16.50]] The police have the forces that allow them to carry out their task, this task of three, but the necessary conditions are provided by the government or the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you very much for your question, honourable Member. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister, without a wallet for families, why does the government only give charity to pensioners while saving tens of billions on pensions? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2021-05-25-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Allow me to begin my question with a quote from the budget that is currently on the agenda for Parliament. The average number of pensioners is expected to decrease by 1.2 percent mainly due to pension income and demographic developments. The reduction in the number of pensioners over the age limit within old-age pensions is slightly compensated by the expected increase in the number of women receiving pre-age pensions. In the case of family pensions, a small reduction continues. The impact of the change in staff totals HUF 43 billion to HUF 800 million, thus reducing the planned expenditure in 2022. So I would like to emphasise that this is in the statement of reasons for next year's budget. Well, what we can see here is that there is some HUF 44 billion in savings that have been set into next year's budget, most likely due to a decrease in the number of employees. This is a year-round benefit for 24 500 people who receive average pensions, which, I see, want to save the next year by the government, i.e. the budget submitted, will result in this. I don't know what it's coming from, because there's been very serious demographic developments. From one year to the next, there are not much fewer people born; now those born in 57 will retire at an age limit, but the Covid epidemic has nearly 30,000 victims. Everyone obviously knows how many people died in the case of the two waves. Well, here is a figure that shows that much less money is spent on pensioners next year, while we see that inflation is extremely high: food oil has increased by more than 20%, but I can say fruit, vegetables or flour, bread and bakery. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you, why do they only give alms to pensioners in June? Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-190	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary.
u2021-05-25-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to say that you haven't changed, because you're constantly faking, threatening, continuing your death campaign, and still anti-vaccination. [[Lajos Korózs: What was anti-vaccination in this?]] I ask you not to do this, because they are hurting the Hungarian people and the elderly. [[Sándor Szabó takes the notary seat.]] Honourable Congressman, The pensionable amount in the 2020 budget was HUF 3580 billion and HUF 3907 billion in 2021. Nor is it true that we would spend less on pensions, as pensionable budget resources will grow by HUF 255 billion next year, rising to HUF 4163 billion in the next budget. So we spend not less, but more on pensions. It is worth recalling for a moment, of course, what you have done as a Member and Secretary of State, to which you have given your name. You, Congressman, have voted in favour of, among other things, the introduction of a visitation fee and a hospital daily allowance [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Lajos Korózs leaves the room. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Exit! Intercoms.]] The taking of the 13th month's pension, assisted to double the electricity, triple the gas price, and if it had been up to you, pensions would have been taxed. So you have taken away even the alms from the elderly and you have destroyed them, Congressman. On the other hand, since 2010, the value of pensions has been protected by law. In keeping with our promise, we maintained the purchasing value of pensions and even increased it by 10 percent. We've begun to rebuild your 13th month's pension. Over the past few years, the elderly have received an extra HUF 220 billion from the good performance of the economy in the case of a voucher, Erzsébet's voucher and pension premium. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And so far, 308 thousand ladies have retired under the, Women's 40. The elderly can't count on you now. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You didn't even listen! He's making a video!]] Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How long can the Director General of the National Blood Supply Service, Bayerné Dr. Matusovits Andrea, responsible for the plasma scandal, remain? " with the title " Mr László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor.
u2021-05-25-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I'm going to ask the government's position again about plasma business. You know, this is the story that the Hungarian National Blood Supply Service sells some of the plasma taken from the Hungarian people. He sells it for money to all kinds of companies, and now we can reasonably say that this will result in damage to the Hungarian state, because he is selling it at a lower price than would otherwise be a possible price on the market. That's how we know, and I dare say so in a statement mode, because even though we asked for it in advance, we asked the Blood Supply Service nicely to issue these contracts with the companies, they didn't. We went to trial, we sued them on behalf of DK, and I'll show you, I've got the contract before me, and I've got the amendment. [[He's showing it to me.]] From 2017-19, it is therefore well-founded to say that they are causing harm to the Hungarian State. These are about an order of magnitude each year... and if the Hungarian State sells the entire 85 tons or 85 thousand kilograms of blood plasma, it will damage the Hungarian State about one billion forints a year; obviously someone will benefit from it. I know that Mr Secretary of State will mention about the mistakes that the service also made in its communication a few days ago, and I will tell you immediately in advance: it is not true that these contracts were on the service website, which is why it was necessary to sue. It is not so true that the service itself defended in the lawsuit that it does not disclose because it violates a business secret; you see, the representative of the Hungarian state is afraid of the business secret of a company. Nor is it true that the non-compete state will be terminated, because the amendment of the contract signed by a certain lady, before the 2017 contract expired, gave the same activity to these companies for another three years without any competition, in the same unadvantaged way. Finally, the complexity of the price assessment says the service, yes, but still [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] can be seen and heard in an exact way. Question: "How long will the head of the Blood Supply Service stay married to Zsolt Bayer?" Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-194	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2021-05-25-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Well, in the end, it got out of the bag. You do not have a professional problem with the operation of the National Blood Service, but that Zsolt Bayer's wife is the head of this institution. In your speech, honourable Member, it has come out that you want to rebuild the world before 2010. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Lies!]] Honourable Congressman, What is that plasma we're talking about? It is not for therapeutic use and is not necessary for direct patient care. There was a way to sell this in your time, and there is a way to sell it in the time of the new leader. In your time, what was the price that was not negotiated, but the price that was established, because there was no competition from which it was established? 8,000 forints per kilo; 8,000, that was your construction. How much is this, Congressman? 47,000 forints/kilograms; 47,000 forints/kilograms instead of 8 thousand forints. This means that if your contractual arrangement had continued, this would have meant a HUF 500 million less revenue to the National Blood Supply Service. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] So 500 million forints would have remained a luxury professional at the company you signed with in 2007. It really hurt for you that after 2010 another world was created, there was a competitive process, the best price in this construction, because this is the year! 500 million forints is missing from someone's pocket. That's why you're trying to attack him on political charges, personal charges. [[17.00]] And who's your lawyer? [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: Here is the contract!]] who is submitting all these requests? The one who was convicted of tax evasion and suspended his membership of the Bar: Csaba Czeglédy. Are you talking about legality with a legal representative suspended from a Chamber for tax evasion, honourable Member? ! It also shows that the left is a huge danger, as it would bring back the world before 2010, with even 500 million luxuries a year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology a rare long question - :. After it has been found that the government has lied to Hungarian universities about the arrival of the 1500 billion EU development funds, after blackmailing universities into the process of outsourcing the model change, after they have put the higher education institutions under Fidesz political control, and they do not replace the failing development funds from the central budget, and they want to spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money on the campus of the University of the Chinese Communist Party, give a clear answer to the sources from which they will be able to achieve the Hungarian universities' development goals? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2021-05-25-197	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said at the end of January that in the next year or two we will invest HUF 1500 billion in Hungarian universities. Compared to this, only HUF 119 billion is included in the development plans, so you lied to Hungarian universities. The EU's development resource promised to universities was sacrificed because it was more important for you to put universities under Fidesz political control. Just a few of the Fidesz politicians who were placed above the universities: Péter Szijjártó Minister; Judit Varga Minister; János Lázár Commissioner of Government, Fideszes representative; István Nagy Minister; Sándor Fazekas former Minister, Fideszes Representative; László György State Secretary; Tibor Navracsics, former Minister, former Fideszes Group Leader; János Martonyi Former Minister; István Bajkai Fideszes Representative; Norbert Csizmadia former State Secretary; István Szemeré Pataki Klaudia, Mayor of Kecskemét Fideszes as Supervisory Board Member; József Gaál, Vice Mayor of Fideszes as Curator; Péter Zámbó State Secretary; Minister Mihály Varga; former Minister of State Minister of Government, István Stumpf; János Süli Minister of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers; Jósz Szilályi Secretary of the State of the State of Bódis; Éva, Fidesz Pécs Fécs; former Minister of State Minister of State of State of State of State of the Parliament, Pécs. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Personalizing.]] Vice President of the Christian Democratic People's Party also became a curator at Nyíregyháza. Dear Secretary of State, Who authorized you to put Hungarian universities under Fidesz political control? Who authorized you to deceive universities, not to give them the promised development resources? And who authorized you to spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money on the University of the Chinese Communist Party? Thank you.
u2021-05-25-198	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Schanda Secretary of State, I would like to say to Mr Group leader that it is my duty to read the question precisely, but you must also read exactly what you have written, and that is not what has happened. Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-05-25-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, We have debated this issue several times here in Parliament with each other, and I have little chance of convincing you in two minutes if I have failed in many hours. But assuming so many mistakes, misunderstandings, or worse, it was a deliberate lie, even in the title of the question, that I was trying to clarify a few things. On the one hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that you were the one who stood-up the universities from Pécs to Debrecen and tried to mislead them with all kinds of lying campaigns about the meaning of the model change. You have failed, you have failed, and the Senates of the institutions have clearly decided that a change of model is needed in their institution. We only supported the model change where they themselves asked for it. Second claim. Let it be clear and clear that, contrary to what you have said, there is no truth here in what you have said, universities will receive the development resources necessary for their development. We're interested in having a XXI. The creation of competitive Hungarian higher education in the 20th century, where young Hungarians can get the highest possible level of knowledge. That's why I'm asking you not to attack these developments. What is completely incomprehensible is that they once have a problem with these developments coming from EU funds, and sometimes they have a problem if we want to do this from domestic sources. My request is for you to stop making this fake call. Honourable Congressman, There's a lot to talk about, let me have one sentence: I can only thank you for your embarrassing, constant interest in my person. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question:. Why is a Fidesz investment more important than the interests of the Erzsébetvárosi? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2021-05-25-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Over the past few years, we have received several requests from residents of Erzsébetváros because they complain that they are planning to build an eight-storey tower building in the veterinary university, which is surprisingly possible for the company of Lőrinc Mészáros's relatives. Earlier, the Erzsébetváros municipality called the university for online consultation, but it found deaf ears, which is a problem because the investment may raise concerns from other points of view: besides the change in the cityscape, a reduction of the required green surface from 40 percent to 20 percent is required, and a four-storey parking house is planned below the surface, and this can cause serious waterfall problems in the neighbouring streets. In this area, such problems were also caused by the construction of the Garai Square market. The sad thing is that 1 percent of the Kádár system had a greater regard for 99 percent than your government, because in the sixties a similar plan came up, there was also a tower planned to be built on this site, but eventually they adopted plans that did not result in this, which would be much easier to blend into the area, and they didn't want to suppress the Steindl surrounding university buildings. On that basis, I ask the Secretary of State, or I don't know who's going to answer that, bearing in mind the VII. The interests of district residents, redesigning these plans, taking into account the opinion of the Elisabethváros, the views of the inhabitants of the area. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2021-05-25-202	Thank you very much. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology, who was responsible for tasks and competences according to the subject, who passed on the mandate to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-05-25-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have a strange role in the Gyurcsány show, which is called a pre-election, because the thing is, I have a letter here, let me read it. For Péter Sótonyi, Rector, Budapest. Dear Rector, As mayor of Erzsébetváros, it is my great pleasure to know a prestigious institution in our district, such as the University of Veterinary Medicine, whose history is connected with the history of the district. Few institutions have lived since its founding of 233 years, like yours, and 141 of them, if I count correctly, in Elizabeth City. But we can be proud not only of your university as an institution, but also of the building designed by Imre Steindl, which is home to it, which is located in the largest green park in the district. We also know that your institution is progressing with the age, the world-famous team of professionals is teaching students from 50 countries of the world in two languages, English and German. [[17.10]] Also, as mayor of the district, I was very pleased to learn about the development ideas that create the conditions for the university to lead the world's leading veterinary training institutions, based on the accumulated professional experience, with the implementation of the new building complex of the planned Comparative Medical Research Centre. Their campus development plans Budapest VII. district, as mayor of Elizabeth city, I am very happy to support you. Budapest, 18 de-cember 2019, Mayor Péter Niedermüller. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable Congressman, I thought you were thinking the same way with the elected mayor, the mayor of Elizabeth City. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology:. Where is the renewal of the railway section to Szolnok, how does the railway company calculate the future developments of the Budapest Szolnok line? What is the progress on the security of the agenda launched on 6 April? It's an address. Congresswoman Maria Kállai has the floor.
u2021-05-25-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, Dear House, As we know, the railway section connecting Budapest to Záhony through Szolnok is actually the busiest railway network in the country. If we highlight from this the Budapest-Cegléd-Szolnok section, this 100a section, then we can see that the capital city, we can now say, is one of the largest orbits of its agglomeration, and not one of them, but the largest. If we ask how many trains are in this section, we can say 210 passenger trains and 50 freight trains, but if we look at how many people travel a year, then the number is really convincing: 11 million passengers per year. The Orbán government has done a great deal to renovate this phase, as in recent years, several stages have been renovated in several steps, so it is now possible to reach a speed of 160 km and railway stations have been renewed in the section. Yet it must be said that it was a moment of honour that the renovation of the Vecsés-Szlő-Monor section began on 6 April, and it will be a moment of honour if we can say that there is almost no delay in Budapest-Szolnok relations. It is true that the MÁV itself did renovations at critical stages, but the question is important to me because many people commute from the seat of my constituency, from Szolnok to Budapest every day, and it is therefore very important that they can use the railway service with a predictable timetable, at the right speed and in the right quality. Thanking you for the work you have done so far, I respectfully ask, as the President has read, how the reconstruction of the railway company's section to Szolnok is going on. What is the government's position on the further development of the Budapest-Szolnok section? What does the development on 6 April mean about the security of the agenda? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-206	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2021-05-25-207	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government pays particular attention to the development and safety of environmentally friendly Community transport. Our aim is to provide a truly competitive alternative to individual transport by providing services tailored to the needs of passengers. The 100a Budapest-Cegléd-Szolnok railway line, as the congresswoman said, is the largest traffic track in the capital's agglomeration: more than 210 passenger trains and 50 freight trains per day serve more than 11 million passengers per year. The renovation of the Albertirsa-Cegléd-Szolnok section took place in previous years, and in 2020 the section between the Western Railway Station and the Városliget branch was rebuilt. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With its decision of December last year, the government granted the Hungarian railway company HUF 20 billion to continue the renewal of the 100a line, so that both the sections between Vecsés and Üllő, as well as the sections between Üllő and Monor, and the parts of the tracks of Üllő and Monor stations can be renewed. In the framework of the development planned from April to late autumn, some 33 km of railway track between Vecsés and Monor will be renewed, the necessary replacements will be carried out and the overhead contact line will be strengthened. Five road crossings on the line will be renewed and the roads connected to them will be paved so that transport will be safer. Between Virág utca and Rudolf, a pedestrian overpass is also renovated. A modern passenger information system is being built at several stations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thanks to the improvements, the 120 km/h track speed will also be available at this stage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why couldn't the Hungarian people, the people of Somogy, share the common ownership of the children's camp in Fonyódliget? It's an address. Mr Róbert Zsigó will answer the question on behalf of the Prime Minister at the request of Katalin Novák, Minister of State, who is responsible for families with responsibility and competence. Mr. Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Council, has the floor.
u2021-05-25-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Attila Móring József announced that this year's children's camp in Fonyódliget will be renewed, not recently announced, but in 2019, but it has not come true either in 2019 or since. The trees were cut down, the wooden houses were demolished, but the construction didn't go any further. What really happened to the former pioneer camp? The Fidesz government transferred the HUF 17.5 billion worth of Fonyódliget national wealth free of charge to a Fidesz-related foundation, which received HUF 5 billion to renovate it and another HUF 13.5 billion for the recreation of disadvantaged children. This is HUF 3600 million, this is the Hungarian people's money, but disadvantaged children have not been allowed to resort to Fonyódliget for years. And that, please, is the top of everything, that in a few years' time, the foundation can sell this unparalleled, one-and-a-half-mile-long beach property in Somogy. Dear Secretary of State, That's why I'm asking, is that what they wanted, that's why they gave away the children's camp in Fonyódliget to their friends? Yes or no? And if not, please tell me why the Hungarian people, the people of Somogy, could not remain in common ownership. Who is responsible for the fact that no children have been allowed to camp in Fonyódliget since 2018, which, by the way, has resulted in significant income losses for Fonyód and its residents? And finally, I respectfully ask that in 2021, during the summer, the camp could open. Let's wait for an honorary answer.
u2021-05-25-210	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary.
u2021-05-25-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin with your constant use of language. Are you deliberately deceiving the people of Somogy? Yes or no? And if so, why do you do it? Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Fonyódliget camp can receive children in August, and can host campers. Since 2012, the Government of Hungary has provided a system of Erzsébet camps, which allows many tens of thousands of children to camp all year round. Erzsébet Camps is a successful, popular and growing program, and the state has provided significant resources for the development of Erzsébet Camps both professional and content and infrastructure in recent years. The Fonyódliget camp was owned by the Erzsébet Foundation in 2016, and the construction of the renovation could begin at that time, while the main maintenance allowed the camp to operate, with a total of 13 thousand campers there until 2018. In Fonyódliget, the camp is now completely renewed, which means roads, pavements and tree plantings, the water, sewage, sewer and electricity network is renewed, and they will be able to receive children in a truly wonderful environment. More than HUF 30 billion will be spent by the government to renew the Fonyódliget and Zánka camps. The aim of the renovation of the children's camp in Fonyódliget is to ensure that an outdated infrastructure camp, built almost 40 years ago, can serve the children in the motherland and across the border in modern conditions. [[17.20]] By the way, as much as the fewer people could camp in Fonyódliget in 2019, we provided as much space in Zánka. It is also clear from what I have said that the Erzsébet camps are also working for the benefit of Hungarian people, Hungarian children, including the people of Somogy, and this was the only way for many families to enjoy their holiday at Lake Balaton. Which is why I'm asking you not to mislead the people of Somogy. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Alexov Lyubomir wishes to ask the Deputy Prime Minister for National Policy, Church Affairs and Nationalities a question of the Serbian nationality:. How long can the transfer of the ownership of movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the educational and educational tasks of nationality public education institutions be prevented or prevented? It's an address. Speaker Alexov Lyubomir.
u2021-05-25-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 25, which entered into force on 1 July 2020 Paragraph 6 states that, together with the transfer of the right of maintenance, movable and immovable property for the purposes of the educational, educational and educational functions of the public educational institution shall be transferred without delay after taking up its duties, but at the latest free of charge until the beginning of the education or school year, to the ownership of the property of the national minority authorities by re-entering the original owner if the maintenance successor ceases or the public education institution ceases to exist. In the event of a commitment before 1 July 2020, the ownership transfer contracts should have been concluded by 1 January 2021 at the latest. In the case of the Serbian nationality I represent, this has never happened in any case. In our experience, the current owners of movable and immovable property for the educational, educational and educational functions of the public educational institution are subject to different conditions of transfer of ownership. We do not dispute that, under the law, a prohibition on disposal for the benefit of the taxpayer is mandatory. In addition, the transfer of ownership cannot be subject to other conditions because neither the nationality law nor any other legislation contains a title for this purpose. On this basis, I ask you that there is still an unclear question on this issue, or, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, by administrative means, for example, how long the municipality of the capital can prevent, where appropriate, the transfer of the ownership of movable and immovable property for the educational, educational and educational functions of national minority institutions to the maintenance minority self-governments. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2021-05-25-214	Thank you very much. On behalf of Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén Árpád János Potápi, State Secretary will respond.
u2021-05-25-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past decade, the number of schools maintained by the national minority authorities has increased eight times over the past decade, in 10 there were 12 schools, in the 20-21 academic year 95 such institutions, in which more than 18,000 children and students are studying. Out of the 95 public education institutions maintained by the national authorities, 70 institutions of 52 national minority authorities were involved in the transfer of movable and immovable property, 39 were successfully completed and 25 were in the process of being transferred to property. The latter have not yet registered ownership of the property, but this can be expected within a short period of time. On 20 October 2020, the President of the Serbian National Municipality applied in writing to the Municipality of Budapest for the conclusion of the contract with regard to the property. According to the Metropolitan Municipality, legal concerns have been raised about the conclusion of the contract. The Ministry of Human Resources, as well as the Prime Minister's Office, helped the Municipality of Budapest with professional statements and information in order to conclude the contract. As regards the property, the draft contract has been drawn up and its opinion has been delivered. However, on behalf of the Municipality of Budapest, the contract has not been signed until today. Technically, we can say that the government has given all the assistance of the Serbian National Municipality. We absolutely agree with the transfer of ownership. It is safe to say that the Metropolitan Government is in violation of this case. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I've also closed this agenda. The Commission's reports on the privileges and immunities of the specialised institutions of the United Nations, presented in New York for the presentation of the Convention and Appendices of 21 November 1947, in a uniform structure, and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/15695. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-05-25-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the privileges and immunities of the specialised institutions of the United Nations in New York, the T/15695 on the uniform structure of the Convention and its Appendices of 21 November 1947. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 29 votes to two, with no abstentions. Dear House, It has become timely to settle the legal status of the Appendices to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialised Institutions of the United Nations by publishing the Convention and its Appendices in a uniform structure. The importance of this is that exemptions and privileges can be put into practice in the relevant specialised institutions. Most specialised UN institutions already have diplomatic immunity, to which the International Agricultural Development Fund, the Industrial Development Organisation, the World Tourism Organisation and the World Intellectual Property Organisation would now join. In addition to Hungary's interest in effective cooperation with these institutions and with the UN itself, we believe that the organisation's institutions should operate impartially, taking into account the interests of the Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, The summarised amendment proposal adopted by the Legislative Committee mainly proposes solutions to technical problems and adapts the Hungarian name of the World Tourism Organisation to the authentic English designation. In conclusion, I would ask my fellow Members to express their support for Hungary's support for initiatives to assist the independent work of the UN specialized institutions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2021-05-25-218	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, that he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] No, at the end. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'd like to ask the author, if you'd like to take the opportunity.
u2021-05-25-219	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member has given an excellent summary of the substance of our presentation. I would just like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[17 .30]]
u2021-05-25-220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next, the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company will be XLII in 1994. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15984. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Dávid Héjj.
u2021-05-25-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1994 XLII on the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company. T/15984. A bill with a paper number. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 7 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, XLII 1994 on the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company. A new concept can be added as a result of the amendment, which clarifies in the case of foreign investment by Hungarian investors that the investment is also considered to be a foreign investment by Hungarian investors if the investment is not carried out directly by a foreign enterprise owned by a foreign company in a foreign currency. So the Hungarian investment is only carried out indirectly. By amending the Exim Act, it can be made clear that both direct and indirect investment can be financed or guaranteed under the government's investment strategy. Eximbank Zrt. and MEHIB Zrt. After the budgetary drawdowns, you may collect the claims on behalf of the Hungarian State and the institutions shall be entitled to a commission on the claims received. The amendment allows the central budget to contribute to the cost of the bank and the insurance company's recovery costs in the event of unsuccessful recovery operations in the context of ex post accounts. Similarly, in the case of Eximbank Zrt. and MEHIB Zrt. there will be no State guarantee due to its successful damage prevention and remediation activities. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill contains provisions to be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-25-222	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha, the rapporteur, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says it's not right now. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see an application for a speech. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Vargha, the Secretary of State, if he would like to take the opportunity to speak.
u2021-05-25-223	Yes, thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company plays a major role in relaunching the Hungarian economy, so I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the bill tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2021-05-25-224	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the proposal for international judicial cooperation on parental responsibility and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The government referral is T/15967. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Dávid Héjj.
u2021-05-25-225	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/15967 on international judicial cooperation on parental responsibility. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 32 votes to two, with no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposal on the House's table aims at a comprehensive re-regulation of cross-border parental responsibilities. These are highly sensitive family-law procedures, so it is important that legislation based on previous practical experience ensures that children's interests are enhanced in the various procedures. The bill before us serves a twofold purpose: on the one hand, it sets out the provisions necessary for the implementation in Hungary of the EU Regulation 2019/1111 on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments and the illegal internationalisation of children in matters of matrimonial and parental responsibility, and, on the other hand, it re-regulates the application in Hungary of the Convention on the Civil Rights of Child Abuse in The Hague, 1980. The Regulation provides for simpler and more efficient procedures for the implementation of parental responsibility decisions in other Member States. One of the most important elements of this is that the Regulation completely abolishes the declaration of enforceability procedure for all parental responsibility decisions, so that the enforcement of a parental supervision decision in another Member State is made available more quickly and at less cost. One of the key objectives of the regulation is also to strengthen the child's right to be heard. A child of judgement should be given a genuine and effective opportunity to be heard and the opinion of the child should be taken into account in accordance with his or her age and maturity. Accordingly, in Hungary, it is necessary to ensure that children are given the opportunity to be heard by the courts or guardians. Ladies and gentlemen, The Regulation also amended the rules relating to the adoption of a child in a number of respects. For example, it expands the possibilities of a court in child-taking cases by taking interim measures and some of them also have cross-border effects. Dear House, Another important objective of the proposal is to modernise the legislation on the domestic implementation of the Convention on the Civil Rights of Child Abduction. The illegal removal of the child is a serious crisis for the child concerned which must be dealt with in an accelerated procedure as soon as possible. Our country joined the Convention among the first in 1986, but the regulation laying down domestic procedural rules is now clearly subject to revision. The aim of the proposal is therefore to modernise, to codify good practice in cases of child abduction and international contact, to clearly define the tasks of the various authorities and to raise the legal level of judicial non-court proceedings currently regulated at the level of the regulation. Dear Parliament, More modern and more detailed rules to date can help to resolve cross-border, broken-up family disputes more effectively and to make the main interests of the children concerned more effective. That is why I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Pál Völner applauds.]]
u2021-05-25-226	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I will ask Pál Völner, who wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'll ask who wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. I give you the floor if you wish to take the floor. [[For signal:]] Paul Völner indicates no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on restructuring and amending certain laws for legislative harmonisation and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/15993. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Congressman David Héyj, who appears to be his permanent rapporteur. [[17.40]]
u2021-05-25-227	Thank you very much for the word again. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed T/15993 on restructuring and amending certain laws for harmonisation purposes. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In July 2019, the directive on preventive restructuring frameworks, debt discharge and bans and measures to increase the efficiency of restructuring, insolvency and debt discharge procedures entered into force in the European Union. The bill on the House's table implements the transposition of that directive into Hungarian law, which includes two regulatory areas: the restructuring procedure for businesses in financial difficulties but not yet insolvent, and the procedure for the debt settlement and debt relief of self-employed natural persons. The legislation concerning legal persons' businesses is transposed by a new law and the rules on the resolution and de-debt of self-employed persons are transposed by an amendment to the law on debt settlement of natural persons. In addition, the proposal amends the basic related laws. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill introduces a new form of pre-insolvent proceedings. The main economic policy objective of the Directive is to address the financial difficulties of fundamentally viable enterprises early, to encourage their recovery and to restore their solvency. Restructuring and restructuring proceedings are non-subsidisation-type proceedings before insolvency proceedings, in support of the resolution of the financial difficulties of the debtor undertakings, to enable them to continue their transaction activities. In contrast to insolvency proceedings, there is a large difference between the fact that the restructuring procedure is not necessarily public, the moratorium on payment may be limited to a part of creditors, the choice of the restructuring expert may be decisive for the parties and, contrary to liquidation, only the debtor's decision to use the framework provided by the legislation. Dear House, The aim of the new regulation is to tackle early financial difficulties for businesses, to encourage their reorganization and to restore their solvency, thereby increasing the country's competitiveness. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-228	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to answer, tell me. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the electronic administration of the metropolitan and county government offices and the amendment of certain laws relating to the provision of information by government offices, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/155990. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-05-25-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to the electronic administration of the metropolitan and county government offices and the provision of government services. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 3 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table aims to regulate three major areas: the introduction of a model signature authentication system in government windows, the establishment of a national construction monitoring and reporting system and the creation of a glass gate, and the direct data link of the social register to certain specialised systems. Ladies and gentlemen, The introduction of a signature model authentication system will appear as a new, innovative service, the use of which will be easily used by citizens who are not experienced in electronic administration. This new electronic authentication method is implemented in practice by introducing a so-called signatory panel at regional government offices to enable the customer to sign the document used in the course of the administration in a simple way, which can ensure the authentication of individual documents by the customer by recording the image, dynamics and writing strength data of a fixed signature, by storing it in an encrypted form and by comparing it with the signature already in the register. It should be pointed out that this provision makes personal administration paperless during the specific types of cases in the government window. The Glass Gate intends to record entries and exits to the construction site and will make them available to the bodies and registers set out in this bill and in the Government Decree. The Glass Gate therefore records in real time the entry and exit of the guests into the construction work area, with the exception of the representatives of the public authorities entitled to remain exclusively in the construction work area for the purpose of work and the representatives of the public authorities responsible for the construction work area. The provisions laid down for the regulation of the construction sector therefore aim to strengthen the transparent construction sector in addition to simpler administration. The proposal submitted also provides the legal basis for a direct data link between the social affairs register and the education register and the systems used by the foreign police authority and the asylum authority. Dear House, In my view, the bill before us can make a major contribution to improving the efficiency of public services and to the smooth functioning of the customer-centred service state. The efforts in this direction are certainly welcome from the government, which is why the proposal that has been tabled should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2021-05-25-230	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I would like to ask Mr István György, State Secretary, the rapporteur, if he would like to comment. [[Dr. István György says no.]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-05-25-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I can say that the bill itself, which lies before us, is essentially of a professional nature and can be supported, so as we have examined it and based on the information available, I can say that we will support it in the vote. I can also say that, in particular, this signature model authentication system and its introduction in the metropolitan and county government offices can really help to ensure better administration, and we certainly welcome this. At the same time, Mr Secretary of State, let me say that, while we are talking about government agencies, I should like to signal a problem which we have already written about in writing, so to speak, by discussing an exchange of views and by highlighting some specific problems, that we are experiencing more and more problems, and, overall, there are a lot of problems with the operation of government offices. Basically, the Prime Minister's Office's task, the competence of the Prime Minister's Office, is to increase the efficiency of the operation of government offices. I received a letter from you not long ago. In particular, I sent a request to Minister Gulyás in several circles that I was informed that illegal mining activities were taking place in the county of Baranya, in the municipality of Horváthhertelend; this was a multi-circle exchange of letters, and since then it has been found that this problem was indeed justified and a fine has been imposed. At the same time, I made an infinitely simple request to the Baranya County Government Office: I would like to receive the minutes of the mining inspector's on-site inspection and information on exactly what happened, where it happened, who took part in this, what kind of fine was done, what else, and since then I have not received an answer. [[17.50]] I have already explained in several rounds, in this Parliamentary plenary, that I find it shocking that I am trying to obtain information as a Member and that the government office does not give it to me. Not so long ago, you, Minister of State, indicated in your reply that the local head of the mining inspector had already been removed from the administration's system because of these problems. At the same time, I can say that due to late processing, data completion or replying, I have still not received a reply. So, Mr Secretary of State, I made a very simple request to the government office last summer to issue this protocol, and the government office simply refuses to do so. That's amazing. So the government office doesn't carry out its statutory task. I would like to mention one more example, which raises the question of efficiency. Towards the end of December 2019, in the area of Christmas, a shocking thing happened on the border between Komló and Manfa, we are also talking about Baranya County, a truck of nearly 40 tons of waste was illegally loaded, with the unsub caught dumping, and the truck's origin. Since then, it has been discovered that this truck brought waste from Italy and was simply dumped without any permission. Of course, I filed a complaint immediately. It was quite shocking that they could not identify a crime in this case, and we were able to get to the point where the legal environment in Hungary is such that this can be done by placing tens of tons of waste illegally in a municipal area without the municipality knowing about it, and this is illegal. But then all the authorities referred this question to the government office, and it would be up to the government office to arrange for this waste to be transported. I can tell you, Mr. Secretary, that this waste has been there for a year and a half. I also keep writing letters to the government office, and the administration has stopped to impose some fines, but the problem has not been solved. How can this happen? And one last example is that not only do Baranya County examples, it was not so long ago that Tamási, in a small town in Tolna County, was allowed to place thousands of tons of waste, and then, through some kind of waste processing activity, I don't know, process it into some kind of granules and sell it on the market. Here we are talking about Tolna County, which has not really seen a problem in this matter. Furthermore, we have sought disaster protection, because the question of fire risk is apparently extremely high and present, and indeed, disaster protection has found that this company, which has received permission from the government office, does not in any way comply with the relevant fire protection regulations, and this is shocking. So, about 150-200 meters from the residential areas, thousands of cubic metres of waste and plastic waste are allowed to be placed by the government office, just the competent Tolna county government office, so that when a request is received, they do not detect this problem, which, fortunately, is at least acknowledged by disaster control. So, what can be done, honourable State Secretary, in order for government agencies to respond when they receive a request, to do their job and at least try to be a little more effective on such fundamental and fundamental issues affecting people's lives, and, let's say, to resolve these issues, especially when such a situation develops, that people's lives can be put at risk, such as on the basis of the Tamás example? But the example mentioned between Komlo and Manfa is astounding. So for a year and a half, the wind has been carrying this waste around, and there's simply nothing to do with it, because in the end, whoever's shipping it will get in trouble, because this particular entrepreneur, I don't know, may still be asking for some kind of financial something, compensation for the illegal disposal of the waste by him. But the overall problem here is that government agencies are clearly not able to do their job with sufficient efficiency, but, unfortunately, they also need to be told that they are not responding in substance. Not only on time, but very often they do not respond at all to the requests that we send them based on the citizens' questions and requests. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-25-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see anyone on the screen. The debate is closed. I ask Mr István György, State Secretary, if you would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2021-05-25-233	Thank you very much. I do not want to talk more about the bill now, as we have heard the summary from Dávid Héjj, he actually told us what issues the legislation intends to address and what is the essence of the implementation of the signing-based verification system. In fact, the Head of the Group has also agreed with this, and I would particularly like to thank you for providing us with your support in this. I do not want to agree to these specific issues. I would like to offer to the Head of the Group that I welcome the Head of the Group personally on these matters, we will look at these matters and I would like to inform him about them. Obviously, in official matters, NAIH has a resolution on the fact that even a Member of Parliament is not entitled to look into the file on official matters. Of course, this does not mean that we cannot and do not want to provide information of a kind that might be of public interest. Government offices and government windows act on more than 2,500 official matters, and government offices carry out around 2,500 cases in their task and competence. I venture to say that the most successful territorial administrative development of the last ten years has been the establishment of these government offices. Of course, they are not without faults, there are cases that should be more effective. But it is precisely the issue of waste that the government is determined to settle these issues at a higher level in Hungary, and the new legislative environment is also adopted, and a new waste management authority is now standing up in government offices. The purpose of this is to ensure that these illegal waste is disposed of and, of course, to the cost of the polluter and to his responsibility. If there are specific corpus delicts here, then, in fact, either the police or even the government have a role to play in this. They will be able to act more effectively in the coming period, by the way. There is also a multi-cycle liability system, which, of course, the municipalities are obviously not happy about. But ultimately, if the polluter fails to be detected, the current turns of the legislation say that the government office will have it transported, but it will do so at the expense of the municipality. We hope that this will really solve a lot of problems that have not been sufficiently effective in recent years. But I can also say to the other cases that I hope, in the midst of a personal conversation, that we will be able to get closer to providing the Member, Mr Group Leader, with appropriate information. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-234	Thank you very much, Mr. István György State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the real estate register and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. The government referral is T/15969. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2021-05-25-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 May 2021, the Legislative Committee discussed the T15969 on real estate registration. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is entirely a legislative reform, since it is CXLI of 1997 on the current real estate register. In more than two decades since the entry into force of law, the world has changed a lot. There have been significant social and economic changes at global level that create new demands for legislation and electronic administration. [[18.00]] A complete, comprehensive revision of the legislation on real estate registration has therefore become necessary, which, in parallel with the development of public administration, justified the creation of a new Real Estate Registration Act and a new Implementing Regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that the Government of Hungary has decided on the implementation of the e-retail register project within the framework of the operational programme for administrative and public service development, i.e. the KÖFOP, which allows it to develop the real estate register into an electronic database, fully electronise the real estate registration procedures, make the administration a one-stop shop, and to create electronic document files, thereby reducing the lead times and cost levels of land management procedures and the administrative burden they entail. This is also important because the real estate registration procedure is still basically paper, which is outdated, time-consuming and more costly. By reducing administrative burdens and increasing customer satisfaction, the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy can also be increased. The legal regulatory reform, accompanied by digitalisation of the real estate register, will enable our country's competitiveness to be enhanced by ensuring that the domestic real estate register is modern and competitive internationally, that traditional paper administration is replaced by more efficient and faster electronic administration, that the real estate register can be linked to other public electronic registers of the state, that the real estate register is transparent, complete and up-to-date, that the system supporting the real estate official duties of the county and the metropolitan government offices should be uniform, that the smart database should be suitable for data processing and data request, and that the authorities, courts and other right holders have easier access to the system by setting the level of eligibility electronically. Dear House, The new elements of the regulation before us are the following. The proposal is intended to introduce a code of rules, i.e. that the scope of rights, facts and data that can be entered in the real estate register can be defined uniformly and exclusively by real estate registration legislation in the future. On the basis of the principle of completeness and the extension of the registration principle, the regulatory reform states that in the case of a right, fact and data relating to real estate which is the subject of the real estate register, the law and the fact and data-based right or obligation are enforceable where the law, fact or data has already been entered in the real estate register. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It is essential that the real estate register gives us the fullest possible knowledge of all rights and obligations in relation to the property concerned. Therefore, the proposal would make it compulsory for sectoral data to be included in the single property register. It should be pointed out that, in relation to sectoral data, the priority of real estate registration data, their public credibility, is stated in the bill. This strengthens the primacy of the real estate register. According to the draft, the Real Estate Register Act is the legislation that allows automatic decision-making to be applied in real estate registration procedures and authorises the definition of its conditions in the implementing legislation, i.e. the regulation. The guarantee clause laid down in the Code of Procedure will also apply to real estate registration procedures, namely that, within five days of the notification of the decision, the client may request the authority to re-examine the application in full proceedings. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table is fully capable of creating a modern, digitised and customer-friendly real estate registration system that can be adapted to the changing needs of today, as increasing Hungary's competitiveness also requires faster and more cost-effective administration. Therefore, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-25-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I would now like to hear the speeches from the Members, but before we do so, I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to speak. [[Dr. István György: Not now.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, So now it follows that the designated Justice Committee has not set up a rapporteur. Speaking by Members is possible. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2021-05-25-237	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, I can't speak as positively or partially positively as I did in the recent bill. But I'll start with what, you might say, is not so negative. Overall, what is stated in the bill is obviously an important work to be done. The bill establishes the electronic property registration procedure and introduces an electronic document system. This is obviously a very, very long time urgent and urgent task to be solved. At the same time, we have very, very many criticisms about the quality of legislation, and on this basis, and because of these uncertainties, I can already say that we will certainly not be able to vote in favour of it. I can say very briefly that there has been a lack of social consultation again, which is also very typical of the government's work. It is not known that he has consulted professional organisations, nor that if such consultations have taken place, what has been the result. We do not know what the position of the Hungarian Bar Association or the National Court of Justice is about this. We don't even know how an impact assessment has been carried out, and if it's done, what kind of findings it has. We do not know, nor do we know how well the state is prepared to meet the challenges of the electronic property registration process or how secure the IT system will be. I don't want to list all of them, but our colleagues, our experts here, see a lot of fundamental problems that raise minimum questions. It has been drawn to very serious codification professional problems, which causes a great deal of uncertainty. The legislation is very, very difficult to interpret, the justification is exaggerated, and there are very, very serious problems in drafting too. In particular, the question and contradiction of the legislation on lawyers raises very, very serious problems in itself. We say that this is an attempt to solve an important task, but, overall, it is a bill in extremely poor quality, which carries a lot of uncertainty. These problems cannot be corrected by proposals that amend them. I suggest that the government consider this proposal. I can say that the LMP fraction will vote against this, precisely because of these legislative, quality problems and the lack of social consultation and the uncertainties that are only partially listed. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether, as rapporteur, he wishes to respond or respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. István György: Yes.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2021-05-25-239	Thank you very much. The question that the real estate registration law has practically outgrown in the last 20 years has already been raised during the expozee, there have been so many socio-economic changes, changes in civil law, changes in traffic life have been so significant that the current real estate registration law is no longer able to fulfil the task that it will have to fulfil in the Hungarian legal system. During the past twenty years, there have been a number of additional regulations at the level of government decrees that have seriously damaged the coherence of this Inytv., and we have certainly seen the time to introduce a new and electronic real estate register, the main aim of which is that, after an extremely high-quality real estate registration law based on the traditions of Maria Theresa, it is now the 21st century. It does not meet the requirements of the century, so it is a new and up-to-date, the 21st century. Replace and replace an electronic real estate register that meets the requirements of the 20th century. It is absolutely necessary to establish the legal conditions for this. We talked about it, perhaps from the very beginning, that this legislation will establish the legal basis of an IT system that has been developed for virtually a number of years, and leave sufficient preparation time, since many of its paragraphs will enter into force from 1 January 2023. [[18.10]] So the kind of uncertainty that was mentioned here, obviously, Mr. Group Leader, is not primarily thought about, will be resolved, the preparation period will be completed, and all the improvements that are actually designed to improve the electronic real estate register will take place in four main modules. Full electronicisation of the real estate registration system, complete electronicisation of agricultural official procedures, a support module on land protection, land use, agricultural register, and the third on map records, and the fourth on earth traffic procedures, will renew and electronise the current system. Seven laws are being amended. I'm not going to mention these now, but what I'd like to say is that it doesn't reveal the reality that there were no negotiations here. Two working groups are working on this project, one being the legal working group led by Dr. Tibor Bogdán, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, Commissioner of the Government. Obviously, everyone has the right to make criticisms, but I think that the person of Mr Tibor Bogdán is a kind of guarantee that, on the one hand, those discussions will be conducted by the legal working group and, on the other hand, that there will be a high level of legal codification, which, of course, we do not agree on here. There have been long consultations with the National Court Office. I would like to point out that the National Court Office agrees with the bill. The Hungarian Bar Association also attended the meetings of the Legal Working Group and also agreed with the draft, which was finally submitted to Parliament. There was also a consultation with the National Chamber of Notaries, the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court, the Hungarian Banking Association, the Chamber of Commerce, the US Chamber of Commerce. We have tried to carry out these consultations in full. One criticism is true: there has been no institutionalized consultation with the Hungarian Real Estate Association, but we know the comments of the Hungarian Real Estate Association, and we have incorporated their two most important comments into the draft law, one of which is the 77th. § 3 and the other in the earthbook section, paragraph 81. § is included. I must say, therefore, that the discussions have been carried out by the legal group, and the strategic task force, which I am leading, has followed in detail, through many meetings, the development, all the milestones that the project has to meet, with a very short leash. However, in order for this development to continue, it is necessary that the legislative framework of the European Union supported by the KFOP is also clean. The Inytv. which is now before Parliament, I think it is capable of fulfilling its function. For my part, of course, I accept that someone else has a different opinion. It is obvious that the code character and the kind of ambition that the legislation itself does not want to contain detailed rules, but rather contains regulatory elements at the level of the law, and the rules relating, for example, to the registration of rights and facts, are placed at the level of a government decree. These are a little controversial now, but this legislation also solves a number of problems that have caused dogmatic disturbances in the law over the past 20 years. That is why, overall, I would like to ask Parliament to support this legislation. A very large arced development will take place during electronics. In my opinion, it is one of the most important legislations of the last thirty years, which contains practically the property of Hungarian citizens, the property of the Hungarian state, so that 70 percent of all Hungarian assets are in fact what is in this register. It is very important that this is correct, that it is indeed public-credited, and that it really has a primacy over any other register that is now having significant problems with coherence in the system. We intend to eliminate all these. I would like to ask this House to adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. Speaking after today's agenda, Mr Zsolt Becsó, from the Fidesz Group, asked for the title of tourism developments in Nógrád. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-25-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We cut our heads into a great deal of wood, as we had the opportunity to create a single tourist destination in the eastern part of the county of Nógrád, within the framework of the Modern Cities programme. The boundaries are roughly the same as those of the Global Geopark of Novohrad-Nógrád UNESCO, which includes the touristly frequented parts of Salgótarján, Hollókő, Szentkut, Ipolytarnóc, Pasztó ruin garden, Maconka water paradise, Szécsényi Ferde tower, Kazáriolittufa, wage andesit, Sanda castle, Kiskő, Nagykő and Szér-kők, Erősztvény, Fehér-patak valley, Tari dácittufa, Tepke, Karancs, Somoskő castle, Kiskőt, Nagykő and Szőr-kő-kőkő, Szörvényáros, Szőlósztósztó, Szőrókáros-tósztó, Szőrósztókályok, Szőlókörkáti, Sztókágágályok, Sztó, Szőkályok, Szőló-tó-tókályok, Szökályok, Törkályok, Törkályi, Szó-tó-tókályok, Törk, Szló-örkályok, Szló, Szk-örk-tó, Szló, Szló, Szló, Szló, Szló-örkálykályok, Szló, Sző, Szló, Szkályok, Törkályok, Törkályok, Törkályok, Sző, Törk, Törk, Törk, Törk, Törkályok, Törkályok, Törk, Törkágályok, Szégályok, Szégályok, Szök, Sző, Sző, Törká The unique offer of our area offers many relaxation, recreation and hiking opportunities, but in recent decades it has been lagging behind the position of surrounding or even remote destinations. As a result, what was clearly stated before Covid was that neither Geopark nor Nógrád was a known caller on the market. We just weren't up on the traveler's mental map. Although we have made huge progress over the past ten years, as we have made significant tourist developments in Hollókő or Szentkút, wonderful developments have been made in our magical environment from the Ipolyforest, Egerforest or the Bükk National Park, Geopark has been built, the tourist offer has been enriched and the infrastructure has improved, but the facts have consistently shown that we still have a lot to catch up on in terms of quality, hospitality and accommodation, as well as the number of guest nights or false stay time. We know our country, we know our values, we know we can do better. We did not want to accept that we were reaping little steps ahead, so we changed the rhythm. With the support of the government, besides the professional guidance of the Tourist Agency, we have started the development of a destination-level tourist product that aims to ensure that all tourists visiting the region find the services they need to enjoy. What we're trying to do here is create a fun park in Nógrád, a park of good life, a destination. Here come those who simply want to have a good time, love life, friends, delicious food and wine, love hiking, hiking, discovering the unknown, actively relaxing. The basis of supply philosophy is to keep problems and troubles at home, not cramp, leave stress at home, enjoy life. The essence of our concept is to create harmony between physical recreation, i.e. hiking, active tourist offer, intellectual wellness, museums and other attractions, traditional-based experience, i.e. the palóc gastronomy and the quiet, tranquil, maximum comfort accommodation. [[18.20]] So everyone in our enjoy park gets what they want, everyone can make their own offer, and so everyone can feel satisfied. Dear Parliament, The job's on the move. The trends after Covid are difficult to predict, but safety, health, naturality, calmness and uniqueness will certainly be appreciated. So, if we can go along our path consistently, then perhaps we will finally understand that the whole of Nógrád County and within it, our fun park, which focuses on geological values, will be on the mental map of travellers. So be it. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2021-05-25-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, LMP Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address with the title of our city, Pécs. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2021-05-25-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, I have to talk about an extremely shameful and extremely dangerous decision, and it can be said that one of the most despicable decisions of the period after the change of regime, which poses extremely serious dangers for Pécs and Baranya, and causes enormous damage now, is clearly visible. For months, the government has lied about the so-called university model change, and they have believed that universities will be able to develop at historical level, with an amount of EUR 1500 billion coming from the European Union. Of course, we knew that this was a scam, and it had nothing to do with the maintenance person of the university, because efficiency and university operation can be perfectly guaranteed within the state framework. This process practically served to get Fidesz to outsource and put almost all Hungarian higher education under political control. Then, two days after the shameful vote, it turned out that the development funds from the EU did not arrive, and instead of the promised 1500 billion, only HUF 119 billion was allocated to Hungarian higher education. Astoundingly, the great rural universities were also reached by this shameful process, including the University of Pécs, even though it was recognized everywhere in professional institutions that there was no normal professional reason for such large universities with tens of thousands of students not to operate in state reserve. And with his shamefully assisted vote, Péter Hoppál, Csaba Nagy, Erik Bánki and János Harghitai, four pro-government representatives of Baranya County. Once again, they betrayed Pécs, betrayed Baranya, and betrayed the people who lived there by giving support to such a shameful decision. But several times during the debates, he bragged, or so said, by the government's current representative, that there was some kind of voluntary process here, and the Senates of the universities have asked for this certain outsourcing of model change. Well, it should be clear from the outset that the party, a representative of Fidesz, made it quite clear at the committee meeting that it was blackmail, because it was almost literally said that anyone who misses the model change also misses development resources, so in Hungarian, they blackmailed universities with the development resources that they didn't provide. At the same time, the Senate of the University of Pécs has formulated a decision, specific conditions, on how they can imagine this change of model. And what we can tell you is that they didn't follow that either, so the government deceived and failed the University of Pécs. The Senate of the University of Pécs has formulated that it expects that education, research, science, the free cultivation of art will continue to be ensured, and that the powers of the Rector and the Senate will not be undermined. Well, you can see that according to your bill, the appointed five-person board, of which four main Fidesz politicians, can in virtually any way rewrite this organizational and operational code and determine what powers they leave in the Senate or what powers they leave in the Rector. That's amazing. The Senate of the University of Pécs also asked that the Board of Governors have at least seven members, having regard to the university's diverse activities and training portfolios. Well, you didn't! You have appointed a five-person, dominantly fidesz board. The Senate of the University also asked that public administration, higher education policy, economics and the representation of scientific life should prevail in the appointment of members of the Board, taking into account the university's proposal. Well, you have managed to appoint Viktor Orbán's Secretary of State, József Bódis, former rector of the university, to lead the Curatorium. István Decsi, former Fidesz Vice Mayor of Pécs, was appointed curator. Éva Mikes, another Fidesz deputy mayor of Pécs, has also been appointed, and Katalin Szili, who is currently appointed Prime Minister. These four Fidesz pro-government politicians run the university, which you intend to call back unrequited, irreparably. It was also defined by the Senate of the University and expressed as a guarantee that the Senate should have the right to exercise its rights in the establishment of the university's organisational and operational regulations, shared with the Board. I have just mentioned that this has been revoked, and here the board of trustees has kept this right entirely to themselves. The university also stated that the charter of the university would ensure that the Senate could propose the content of the rector's application and call even after the change of model. It was also under the authority of the board of trustees. We can say that, in fact, they have failed him in all things, they have deceived the Senate of the University of Pécs, and after a blackmail, they have not even given us the minimum conditions that the Senate elected by university citizenship has asked for. What I can say is that next year, after the change of government, one of our most important and first tasks will be to ensure university autonomy, and we will start a development process at the university involving the citizenship of the university and the university leaders, and [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which is based on a professional and social consensus. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2021-05-25-244	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group, applied for a post-scheduled speech:. What is left out of the budget debate in South Somogy also wants to live! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-25-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A few minutes ago, Parliamentary Congressman Zsolt Becsó spoke of his own district, as a district where the sense of joy will soon be overcome by the people who visit it and the people who live there. I wish I could tell you that this sense of life is true both inside and in South Somogy. Unfortunately, that's not the case. The neighborhood feels like something they left behind, and the title of my speech is, for a reason, that South Somogy wants to live. I have brought here some of the topics that could help us to stay in rural areas, which could help us to put this region worth a better fate on the map; and not only on tourist destination maps, as we have said before, but also on the map of the government at all, because it must be said again and again: this region has been systematically wiped off the map of Hungary, at least for the people living there it is a daily and busty feeling. I have added ten points, which are also included in the budget amendment, and would amount to HUF 29 billion in total extra expenditure for next year's budget and would specifically concern Internal and South Somalia. Obviously, this is when he comes out from a pro-government perspective, where we could get the resources, where we'd take them. For example, empty propaganda contributions to government communication could easily be cut off and the resources targeted could be earmarked for such more noble purposes. Or it is safe to say that the Budapest-Belgrád railway has not supported it with an impact study, which does not include a Chinese guarantee, because this thousand billion-dollar project will result in a large number of Chinese loans, and from its non-transparency project it would be possible to obtain and raise additional resources for such areas, which have been torn down and have been reduced. It's a story of HUF 29 billion. Both Grandpa and Barcson would need to build apartments for rent. We are radically thinking of a different concept, as was imagined in the fidesz benches, in the case of municipal tenements. If a quarter of the wealthy housing stock in Vienna is a local government tenement, then what they're planning to do now is more than a crime in our view by selling the apartments, by evading them. From 700 to 700 million forints, both 10 to 10,000 Nagyatád and Barcson could make significant progress in this area. 115 years old this year is Nagyatád's spa, the wonderful spa that awaits public development resources. For years there has been an accurate and well-developed plan on the table of the Hungarian tourism agency, and now only the resources would be missing. Otherwise, we could, say, detract from extraordinary government measures and support the survival of South Somogy in such a way. Or even the city's elderly home deserves a more serious government attention, or the government could now raise the hospital in Nagyatád and put it on the map where they are focusing extra resources, because it could use the renovation. It's completely nonsense and unacceptable for us to say that Baptists are collecting so that there can be renovations, say, in connection with the lab. [[18.30]] But the same is true of Barcs, the apartments should be extended there as well. And yes, it must also be said that the Hungarian state has taken 2 billion forints from the people of Barcsi and the people living in the area by actually taking away the right to compensation from the former members of the productive cooperative with an attic sweep, with a modern Bolshevik-menshevik view, while there is a large owner established in South Somogy from abroad, for whom the Hungarian State was able to pay 2.5 million for their land per hectare. What about the people around Barcs? Why are they being destroyed? And there's the wonderful natural value Drava free beach that should be developed, but without a source it won't work. What my fellow Member Becsó has outlined from Fidesz, such resources would also be needed for South Somogy. And one more thing: the roads. It's a small village, 77 settlements make up the constituency from which I came. No wonder that investment and normal work will not appear there if the infrastructure is what it is. They've been sweeping this question off the table for years or decades. I ask my fellow members of the Government to pay attention. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and focus on a very, very little South Somogy. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-25-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Horváth, Fidesz Group asked for a speech: You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-25-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Tarna Mente and the 12 settlements of Mátraalja joined together three weeks ago to end an untenable situation. The reason for this situation is 40,000 stone trucks every year in these settlements. The reason is that these 40-ton trucks, loaded with stone, are not once driven through a trench-bokron without a speed limit, endangering residents, local road users, continuously damaging and destroying the roads of the area, which are not designed for this kind of load or load. There is constant noise and dust pollution and the condition of the properties on the side of the road continues to deteriorate. At the same time, demand for the products of nearby quarryes is constantly increasing, which can and must be welcomed, because many of these quarryes work, and these quarryes indirectly create and retain a lot of jobs, but for the local people, this situation, which has been testing their nerves and patience for many years, is no longer tolerated. The question is that there is a solution, there is a compromise. We have come to the conclusion that such a compromise exists, and that we have launched this petition, to which more than 5,000 people have now joined, in order to put this stone transport on the rail once and for all, because this can be the real solution, and we have the conditions and means that are needed to solve it. After all, there is a railway line, a railway line which, during the first Orbán government, was otherwise suitable for freight transport, which was closed a decade and a half ago, unfortunately, which could be reopened and reopened. There is an area and, as a result of the efforts of the past years, there is also an area and ownership that may be suitable for the construction of a quarry in the vicinity of the former railway station in Verpelét. And there is a abandoned railway station that can be adapted to serve such a quarry, and there are also plans to reopen the railway line and modernise the railway station. What else do you need? We need money, support, and this petition is why we turn to the Government of Hungary, because the local community, these twelve settlements, cannot finance the costs of the transformation on their own. Therefore, with this petition, we ask the Government of Hungary to support the construction of the railway quarry in Verpelét, the restriction of the truck traffic in Tarna and Mátraalja. We believe that there is a solution, and this solution is one that can bring the interests of the community into line with economic growth in the long term. And we also know that the interests of the community are first and foremost, and that the community is not a service to the economy, but a service to the community. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-25-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Varga would be next, he is not in the room, so I will now wait for Congresswoman Anett Bősz to arrive, because I understand that she is here, so that is when we want to keep in order. [[It's a short break. Enthusiast Anett enters the Chamber.]] Congresswoman, we've been very patient, we've waited. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Anett Bősz, DK Group, asked to speak with the title "The exclusion approach also affects the individual settlements." I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-25-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor after the agenda because we are typically hearing very many Fidesz and KDNP fellow Members speaking after the agenda on financial aid for their own district, investments that have been made by the state, billions of investments in a few hundred enthusiastic villages, which I would like to say we do not envy immediately; but at the same time, we can see that in the period following 13 October 2019 there were significant disadvantages in terms of financiary areas for cities, the municipalities that chose opposition leadership and opposition mayor. Here, for example, is the town of Érd with county rights, which has fallen from HUF 700 million in the last two years, which has given the state operating aid in order, simply because there has been little development of industrial parks in the last decade, there has been little development of local industrialisation tax revenue, and I think that, in this sense, this HUF 1.4 billion deficit, which was created in this way in Érd's budget, has affected the citizens of the city exceptionally badly, has affected settlements that have still come to this effect, similarly to Érd. For this reason, I have tabled, by the way, proposals for amending the budget which have been limited in the budgetary debate to explain, but it is extremely important to see that many of our fellow citizens live in a settlement led by the mayor of the opposition, with three million in size since October 2019. It was not just Erd that the amending proposal I tabled was only for HUF 2.5 billion, which is worth 75 thousand people, my fellow Members. In the last year and a half, our city has grown with thousands of new inhabitants of Orlando. But let's just see what the other county legal cities, which are run by Fidesz mayors, have received budget support of over a billion forints. It's also a pretty amazing number. Despite the fact that the government is talking about individual treatment, despite the fact that it highlights, honourable Members, that it is indeed necessary to assess individually how the financial disadvantages of individual settlements resulting from the epidemic can be compensated by the central budget, well, we can see that individual treatment is indeed that mayors coming from two thirds of the two-thirds and two-thirds of the political community start from extremely good negotiating positions, while mayors coming from the benches of the opposition and from our political allies start from a very bad situation. [[18.40]] You are very mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, if you think that this will erode fellow politicians. They're eroding your fellow citizens. I'd like to tell you about Diósd settlement. Half of the settlement is still on a dirt road in 2021. The modernisation of the road network has been canceled, and I have to say that an independent mayor is now meeting with the fact that, by the way, their computer system often strikes the electric clock, putting employees of the mayor's office at risk every day, because there is a lack of infrastructure investments in the city hall, which is simply a problem; but not only for those who work there, but also for those who expect something from the public office. I could tell you on Tárnok about the entire attempt to modernise the Szőlőhegyi út, which is not in order because Tárnok does not receive adequate central support. Only a HUF 1.2 billion investment would be sufficient to eliminate this significant disadvantage for the Tarnok. By the way, I note that from the intersection between Szőlőhegyi út and the salt well, who are on their way home on foot, heavy vehicles are pulling past them on potty roads, they have no bike roads, no sidewalks, they are coming home in extreme danger of life. The construction of the noise protection wall in Törökbálint is vital, my fellow Members, it could only be achieved from two billion forints. I think that so much that fits at the Nyíregyháza stadium really deserves a whole region here in the Buda area. Thank you for your patience.
u2021-05-25-250	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, DK Group, applied for a post- Agenda speech:. What does the 2022 budget say to the municipalities? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-25-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Last week we started the debate on the state budget for 2022, and we heard the opinion of the Minister of Finance, the State Audit Office, the President of the Fiscal Council on the budget, and we heard that this budget is sound, predictable, enforceable, and that it shows good planning work and gives this country security. Yes, it was less emphasized that 3100 billion is the internal deficit of this budget, and then we did not even talk about sovereign debt. So, is everything really okay with this budget? For what I am asking, it is the fate of the municipalities, and I have also given this title to what it sends to the municipalities 2022. In the debate, we passed side by side, and my fellow members on the other side, pro-government, joined in praising my previous solo, how much they had done in their own district. One billion forints were taken on a bicycle ride, 600 million forints were taken out on a small tourist train, nearly 100 million forints for a brandy tasting, so my fellow Members listed a whole series of things that they could manage while saying that they were not an election budget, but everyone has said their gratitude in the past period about some villages in their own district. At the same time, the 3176 municipalities that I am talking about were very few involved in this exceptional payment of pálinka tasting. If we look at the Hungarian village programme in this budget, it has fallen by half compared to last year, and if I consider the 300 poorest settlements to be caught up, it is only 77 billion in this budget compared to the original 220 billion. So I think that this budget contains little message for the municipalities, little even for the villages. At the same time, in the debate, I have heard and listened to the fact that 11 years ago, when local governments were indebted before 2010, and we are listening to the fact that, without any condition, 1300 billion was written down from the government's debt. This debt loan was, in essence, and there were probably bad loans in it, otherwise there was never any mention of the type of municipalities that were indebted. But let's see how they got this back. Because these 1,300 billion forints were not only received as a gift, they were also taken back. The recovery started immediately, the state normative acts were closed by almost 2 percent as the first measure of governance, and the state normative was effectively closed for the entire year. A certain portion of personal income tax remained here, but 100 percent of the income tax was taken from the settlements. Any municipality having a plan and a permit could apply for the recipient and target grants; the target and recipient aid was abolished. There was a dust road normative, and they stopped it. VAT was raised from 25 to 27 percent at the first tax law. Compared to the political bargaining of the minimum wage, municipalities are constantly paying 100% of the minimum wage, since it was mainly the municipal employees who actually had minimum wage employees. All in all, I have to say that over the course of these 11 years, the government has repeatedly recovered the money it has been generously, allegedly given. My colleague Balázs Barkóczi and I spoke with the mayor of Újpest and the mayor of Crab Palota: HUF 1.9 billion is the withdrawal that affects Újpest and HUF 3.5 billion is the one that affects Rákospalota. Well, this is about how we prepare to change not only the budget but also the government in 2022. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-252	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju has not yet arrived, so we now have to speak to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, Jobbik Group: the voice of the countryside! It's called the 12th. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2021-05-25-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I want the thieves to pay me. With this title, he wanted to say his speech before the agenda today, Mr.Péter James, President and Group Leader of Jobbik. The shameful series of events that have emerged in this House over the last few weeks has encouraged me to classify this act, and most of all you, because you have rewarded it with laughter and a smile on their faces and iron applause that you have withdrawn the word from President Peter James. What you know best in this House is when you use such shameful words to the ladies and gentlemen in the opposition benches, fellow Members, which are often unrated. I always address my speeches after the agenda as the voice of the countryside. Whether you like it or not, we, opposition representatives, have been brought into the Parliament by the Hungarian people, and we do have the right to say, and indeed not only our right, we have a duty to say what the Hungarian people in the countryside, outside the walls of Parliament, are experiencing in this situation in today's Hungary. Because the fact that you are constantly building an alternative reality and pushing it through government propaganda and pushing it does not mean that Hungarian reality is completely different. There are people who are starving, we are here at the end of May, and I have received many messages to help because they simply cannot put food on the children's table; when entrepreneurs have a tax burden they cannot afford in this pandemic situation; when police are looking for something to do, because they will simply leave the field, we would like to say it here in Parliament. [[18.50]] When we keep feeling the pressure from you, and when you tell us it's opposition bullshit, I can tell you to be ashamed. This is not a joke, it is the voice of the Hungarian people, and it is our task to bring this here. Today, when I arrived in Parliament, I met a 10th class in Kossuth Square, and they were studying about Parliament and listening to the teacher. I approached them, introduced myself, and said that I was very happy to answer the students' questions. One of the questions was that they could see that we were always arguing in Parliament. I said that it is very right that this debate culture should take place in a normal way, because it is the opposition's duty to provide the government with a counterweight, but not what has taken place here in Parliament today. I think that we do have the right to say this here, and, of course, it is not only our right, but our duty, because we took the oath to represent the Hungarian nation here in Parliament. That's what I'm gonna do in the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2021-05-25-254	Thank you, honourable fellow Member. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Stummer, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke with the title of the change of era. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-25-255	Thank you very much. 29 644 HUF. Do you know how much money this is? That's what a 40-year-old job in the Békés County is worth. Those morning wakers are worth HUF 29 644, those weekend overtimes are worth HUF 29 644, those nights are worth HUF 29 644 when these Peaceful County people came home to their own homes during their employment, and when they were tired, they only had the strength and the energy to have dinner and then to go to sleep so that they could start the same squirrel wheel again the next day. 29 644 Forints I ask you to taste this number and this amount and imagine yourself in the place of the Peaceful County citizen who has to face every month that the postman, when he makes his pension, gives him these three tens of thousands. Then these three tens of thousands will be brought in by this Peaceful County citizen and put on the kitchen table and watch what this will be enough for. Then he realizes that nothing, that it is not enough for the overhead, for the medicine, or for the food, is the three tens of thousands that you give them as a pension, or a few thousand forints more, but not by chance enough to make a living of it with honor and honor. And when you humiliate these Peaceful people with these 30,000 plus 40,000 forints and humiliate those workers who are working their lives right now with those three shifts of 130, 150 and 160 thousand forints, you think there's nothing down there. And then you realize that, but, on top of all that, you see these citizens as birds, and you think these people don't watch TV, read newspapers, or see the papers from their own eyes, and you don't see what you've spent the last 11 years of your country and because you haven't. For example, they certainly did not spend it trying to reduce the pay gap that separates Peaceful County from the rest of the country. They didn't spend these 11 years either, nor did they take any action to reduce this social crisis, the all-inclusive poverty that surrounds this county, somehow. On the other hand, however, the fact that EU funds are distributed hand-to-hand in such a way that they can continuously oil this corruption machine, which also operates in the region of Békés. For example, they also dealt with the provision of wages and salaries to themselves, to their own business and buddies, and to the occasional multinational capital in Békés County. They also dealt with, let's say, the most important thing in these 11 years is that as far as possible, as many people in the county of Peace can be dragged into the state of total material and existential vulnerability, only so that they can control and fuck over them. And when we ask you why these people should be humiliated, why you cannot give that pensioner 20,000 forints more, why it is not possible to help that current employee not to have to support his family with minimum wage, then you tell us here with wide-open eyes and wide arms: but, well, there is no money. Gentlemen and ladies. The money, shall I tell you where it is? For example, it's in that bear that was caught in the new Buda villa of László Mészáros and Andika a few weeks ago. And there's the money you're looking for, the yachts you're looking for, and in the pockets of comrades doing cocaine at Brussels house parties, and in the concrete of stadiums, which, for the sake of your demented prime minister, has been built for the last 11 years in this country by tens and hundreds.
u2021-05-25-256	Congressman, I don't want to judge your style. Be kind and moderate yourself.
u2021-05-25-257	I'm gonna go through with it, Mr. President, and you and Magos have had the guts to talk about rural development for 11 years and talk about how many hundred billion they're gonna pay. [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] spend it in this Hungarian countryside!
u2021-05-25-258	Congressman, I don't want to stop you, but I think you're insane in this House, and I think you should choose your words. Please!
u2021-05-25-259	All right. He'll come in the next time he has to answer immediate questions. So, the next time there's a parliamentary election in this country, you'll see in 2022 that the country you've built here 11 years ago we're gonna put an end to it, and we're gonna give back the opportunity to do honest and honest work, we're gonna give back to the village and the city the feeling that it's good to live here, and we're gonna give back the future that you stole from us. Thank you very much. [[Anita Kőrösi and Balázs Ander applauds.]]
u2021-05-25-260	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr. Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post- Agenda address: , which is not in the news, but the people know without it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2021-05-25-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In my speech after the agenda, I would like to talk about, and I will talk about, things that you cannot hear on Kossuth Radio, you cannot see on the television channels called the public service, but not in the public service, and you cannot read in the Somogy Newspaper. According to the European Commission, Hungary can be a record inflation record in the European Union both this year and next year. In April, the Statistical Office measured a 5.1 percent inflation rate, i.e. prices in Hungary exceeded last year's level by this amount, which is also the highest figure in the last eight years. Is Hungary performing better? Do you remember this government propaganda, these posters, the newspaper ads? Well, how is that now? I ask the question. In Hungary, the basic foods, the most important in the everyday life of the less affluent layer, started to become expensive, which many Hungarians' wallets will no longer be able to carry. [[19.00]] Since April 2020, let's look at margarine by 8 percent, rice by 8 percent, flour by 7.5 percent, sugar by 5 percent, bread by 5 percent, and food oil by 23 percent. I'm not even talking about the price of fruit and vegetables and the price of sausage, which is our basic food. In addition to food, fuels also started to grow. Since January, the average price of petrol per litre has increased by nearly HUF 50, while gas oil has increased by HUF 40. It is no coincidence, then, that four out of ten of our countrymen feel that their financial situation has deteriorated in recent years. And what causes people's financial situation to get worse? According to the vast majority, food prices are increasing. And then let's talk a little bit more about my country, Somogya. Somogy people bring home 116 thousand forints less for their work than their fellow countrymen in the capital. As long as the national net monthly earnings are 262,000 forints, the total amount in Somogy is 212 thousand. It is even more difficult to be retired in Somogy County, since an average pensioner in Somogy has to live on an average of 120 thousand forints a month at these agile prices. But consider also that the majority of pensioners in Somogy receive significantly less than 120 thousand forints after an honest life. Ladies and Gentlemen, The increase in earnings is therefore not proportional to the increase in domestic prices, and the sad thing is that we are no longer talking about the fact that families can't go on vacation, families can't save on housing, but they're slowly not going to be able to buy the basic food they need. And those who say that Hungary is doing better, somogyi tell them to try to eat, clothe, pay an apartment, maintain a car, and even save money for the future. We look forward to your feedback. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2021-05-25-262	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Varga, MEP, DK Group, has applied for a post- Agenda address:. Lajos Kósa is really above the law? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2021-05-25-263	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak. Far be it from me to put anyone on the brink, and especially not a fellow Member. Yet, what we are talking about is a good example of the party's relationship with morale and mental health. Because yes, if we're talking about Csenger, then everyone in Hungary will pick up their heads, and I dare to put my neck on it, when we talk about Csenger, 99 percent of people don't think about what beautiful monuments they have, how beautiful the natural environment is, but the case of the heiress in Ring. Let's face it, this story is so surreal and so morbid that it's all about Hidden Pen. For we know that we are talking about a simple housewife living in Csenger, who, according to her own and her surroundings, could not do a series of frauds ten years ago, but did not know the phone, could not read nor write texts. In addition, we are talking about one of the leading politicians of the ruling party, the Vice President of Fidesz, the Defense and Police Committee, let us say, a smart politician. It is their romance that has made the Bell as a phenomenon otherwise the subject of public speaking, and let's just say it has made it a laughing stock. Really, it's like a Hidden One wrote this story. A simple household who lived for long and long years as a cucumber grower learns how interesting it is, by the way, from the mayor's office that he inherited a huge fortune, he had his papers, and then appears in the picture Lajos Kósa, Lajos Kósa's friends, and here I would like to say in brackets how interesting it is that, for example, Lajos Kósa's successor, László Papp, is of bell-born origin, and it turns out that this romance creates a good relationship; that Lajos Kósa promises this simple woman in the household that she will invest this huge inheritance, and that the president of the Defence and Police Committee doesn't even think that something doesn't add up in this story, that there't win billions. But no, that's not what's happening. We know very well that Lajos Kósa and his family, his dear mother, his lovely wife, perhaps even his children, are signing hundreds of millions and billions of gift contracts, otherwise, authentically, with Lajos Kósa's mother saying after him that he didn't sign such a document, but he doesn't even know the notary as an office. But his son can sign his name. We know the story very well. The heiress of the bell runs away, the heiress of the bell is captured, she will be arrested in advance. Otherwise, he claims that he and Lajos Kósa traveled to Switzerland for a hearing with various banks and lawyers. Lajos Kósa says they didn't travel together. It turned out that this was nothing more than a game with words, because they didn't travel together, but now we can see that, in most likelihood, video and audio recordings prove that they were actually sitting together in certain Swiss offices and talking about an inheritance. We're talking billions! And none of the options associated with Lajos Kósa's name are good, because one of them is that there is a series of frauds where Lajos Kósa is not a victim, but a minimum accomplice. The other is that he's a victim, but then it's questionable what he's doing in the chair of the Homeland Security and Police Committee. We see what this is all about. We see a series of tragedies in the family of the bell woman in custody. We see that this woman continues to maintain her opinion that she had no talent, no knowledge, no ability, and perhaps not today to deceive anyone, especially a politician she knows nationally. And we can also see that in this complicated story almost everything is vague, but there are many things certain. One is that Lajos Kósa and his family's names appear on several gift contracts. I'm pretty sure Lajos Kósa was there in Switzerland when this woman claimed it. And I'm sure Lajos Kósa was above the law. The question is, and I think, not only for me, but also for ten million other Hungarians, how long this Faramuc situation can last, and when Lajos Kósa becomes hot for the power holders, when the Prime Minister will release Lajos Kósa's hand. And we can also see that the case is far from over. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And the lightnings are closing in on Lajos Kósa. Thank you very much.
u2021-05-25-264	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju has not arrived, so we have reached the end of the speeches after today's agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
