u2014-12-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 24th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be attending the meeting with notaries Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, submitted a report on NATO and OSCE Foreign Affairs meetings. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2014-12-08-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The reason why I asked to speak again today is because last week there was a meeting of NATO and OSCE Member States and foreign ministers from countries participating in the coalition against the Islamic State. Please allow me to give you information about these events here in Parliament. At each meeting, we agreed that the changes in the world have led to a threat to our alliance and our community of values from two directions, both from the east and from the south. These challenges are addressed by the contingency action plan that we adopted at the previous NATO summit, and we discussed the implementation measures on which the final decision will have to be taken by the defence ministers at the beginning of next year. However, we have made it clear that it is in the interests of both NATO and all NATO Member States, including Hungary, that these measures, which lead to the contingency action plan, will be adopted as quickly as possible. In response to security challenges, I would like to inform my fellow Members that it has been decided that, from 1 January, a new international mission will be on duty in Afghanistan, which will be the most important task of training and support. For three years Hungary will contribute to the success with a financial contribution of half a million dollars per year and 130 people depending on the need for operation and operation. We have all clearly supported Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. At the same time, we also stressed that, in order for Ukraine to be a politically and economically stable and strong country, structural reforms need to be implemented, and I agreed with the Ukrainian Foreign Minister that Hungary will help Ukraine in their administrative and administrative reform. We also argued for speeding up NATO enlargement. Ladies and gentlemen, For the first time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 59 countries involved in the coalition against the Islamic State. We agreed that the Islamic State is a direct threat to our community, and we agreed that we should provide concrete and rapid solutions to this. We welcomed the agreement between the central government of Iraq and the Kurdish regional government that could provide a good basis for the success of the international mission. We agreed on five points, first of all, to continue supporting military operations and training the Iraqi army. We also agreed to take joint measures to stop the flow of so-called alien warriors. Joint measures have been decided to cut the funding of the Islamic State. We are taking joint steps to deal with the humanitarian crisis, and we also agreed that we would seek to present the true face of the Islamic State, that is to say, to demonstrate that the Islamic State is engaged in activities that are incompatible with Islam; this has been said there that the Islamic State has nothing to do with Islamic religion. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, we must also pay attention to the fact that Christian communities in the region are practically threatened with the horror of destruction. As a Christian country and as a Christian continent, we have a special responsibility at this time, which is why we urged action to protect Christian communities there, and to make accountable and punishable all those who committed or committed crimes against Christian communities. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Hungarian contribution to the OSCE missions in Ukraine was clearly recognised at the meeting of foreign ministers from the OSCE countries. We are currently talking about three missions, the special observation mission, with Hungary contributing EUR 100,000 and 19 people; we support the work of the border monitoring mission with two people; and we have paid EUR 20 thousand to enable the High Commissioner for Minority Affairs to establish a permanent representation, because it is also important for Hungary to close this issue by means of a fast negotiated procedure because we have a national community of about 200,000 people in Ukraine. Thank you very much for letting me tell you about the events of the last week. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-2	Ladies and gentlemen, The factions can respond to the Minister's speech in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Németh of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Indeed, there is a war in Europe and the security situation in Europe has not been so serious since 1989. The degree of instability that is characteristic of Europe's everyday life today is entirely novel. I believe that, in this situation, the existing diplomatic channels or institutions are greatly appreciated. I also think it is important that we strengthen our defence, but not just our defence, but we also need to strengthen Hungarian diplomacy, strengthen Hungarian diplomatic skills, budget, number and infrastructure in this situation. [[13.10]] As far as NATO is concerned, I think it is very important for Ukraine to be the starting point for settling our international tasks. Hungary clearly has a reason to stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity and to reject Russia's attempt to redistribute Europe to spheres of interest. We believe that it is important to strengthen internal solidarity within the Alliance, particularly towards Poland, Estonia and the Baltic, and I also consider it important to restore genuine allied relations with the United States in the coming period and to prepare the necessary package plan for this. As far as Russian relations are concerned, it is also important to make clear that Russia cannot be won either militaryly or economically, so a political solution must be sought, and minority affairs play an extremely important role in this; I also consider the role of the Office of the High Commissioner for Minority to be very important. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-4	András Schiffer, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, You said correctly when you said that our region is currently under security threat from the east. At other times, however, it must be said clearly, clearly and sovereignly: yes, Hungary and the security of the region are being threatened from the east. At a time when we are talking about Ukraine, I think it is very important to stress that Hungary has a special interest in calming down to the east of us, namely: Hungarians living across the border, in Transcarpathia. Hungary therefore has a responsibility to make it clear within the European Union that the various extremist groups are threatening the existence of national, ethnic and religious minorities living in Transcarpathia; this is a mission of Hungary. I think that we should not want to cause Ukraine any harm, so before Hungary makes any progress in implementing structural reforms in a country with a greater fate than we do, think back to its own 25 years. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, It is important for Hungary to have a clear, clear, unambiguous position and, at the same time, a sovereign position in world politics, but this requires consistent foreign policy behaviour and one more thing. Foreign policy cannot be taken seriously, they will not take seriously the foreign policy that makes non-serious statements. I am thinking here of the time when Prime Minister encourages the head of one of the state authorities to sue. A person who makes non-serious statements in foreign policy will not be able to defend his own sovereignty. On this, I would very much ask Minister for your attention in the coming months, thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-6	I now give the floor to Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Szijjártó mentioned very important defence issues, and I would like to reiterate here again that the MSZP has, of course, supported and will continue to support all initiatives and all activities related to international missions and humanitarian tasks, since we consider it extremely important that international peace be achieved and sustainable. However, what is very important is that we take a broader foreign policy outlook and look at its relationship with the Hungarian government, because if we ask ourselves what Hungarian foreign policy is all about, unfortunately we have to say that this is only about Viktor Orbán and his narrow circle, about lying their interests into national interests. The Hungarian government has completely eroded the moral capital created at the time of the change of regime, and today it has been replaced by a policy of isolation. We can see that on the corruption lists Hungary occupies a place that already shows systemic, institutionalized corruption, and it is this personalised and tailor-made legislation that really pricks the eyes of Hungarian society - we can see the thousands of protests - and this also pricks the eyes of our allies with absolute right. Today, at the Foreign Affairs Committee meeting, we had a number of questions for the Minister, and many things were not answered. We did not get the answer that they were just trying to contact many people in the US administration and the opposition politicians' staff, that the Századvég spent that many, many billion forints on, and the foundation of the former minister. In connection with the South Stream, he announced in Ankara Putin on 1 December that he would stop it, and 10 days earlier you met Foreign Minister Lavrov and Serbian Prime Minister Vucic. The question arises whether you have been misled, that you did not know what was going to happen. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Nevertheless, as long as the stamp of corruption is on the Hungarian government...
u2014-12-08-8	Congresswoman, your time is up.
u2014-12-08-9	Until then, there's absolutely no need for any childish foreign policy explanation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-10	Imre Vejkey's KDNP congressman now has the floor.
u2014-12-08-11	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Thank you for the information on the first ministerial meeting of NATO Foreign Ministers on 2 December 2014 as well as the next day's Global Coalition against the Islamic State, as well as the OSCE Ministerial Conference on 4 December 2014. The KDNP also expresses the importance of ongoing consultations on security challenges, as we are committed to the peaceful and democratic development of Europe and the world. It is also important that our partners know that our country considers constructive dialogue to be a priority. KDNP welcomes the fact that the Hungarian Government attaches extraordinary strategic importance to the development of bilateral relations with countries where Hungarian communities across borders live as a result of Trianon. This is why last week's agreement that the Romanian Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu will arrive in Budapest for an official visit in February 2015 is of particular importance. [[13.20]] We also agree that infrastructure, energy cooperation and investment will have an increasingly important role to play in bilateral relations, so KDNP considers agreements between Eximbank and third country development banks to be extremely important, as well as investment protection agreements. Dear Minister, Thank you once again for the ministerial briefing, wishing you success in your further work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-12	Finally, as a representative of Jobbik, Mr Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2014-12-08-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik has expressed its views strongly on the subject of the Ukrainian crisis in several forums. I did this at the COSAC meeting last week, at the European-level meeting of the European Affairs Committees, where I explained that the European Union is one-sided in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. We cannot support or consider sanctions against Russia to be appropriate, because they are in any event detrimental to our country from an economic point of view. And it was also well founded that we did not support the association agreement with Ukraine in the European Parliament or here in the Hungarian Parliament. There's more than one reason I can put in place. One of the most important things is the way Ukraine deals with the situation of minorities. The Hungarians of Transcarpathia are extremely disadvantaged by the electoral system there, and Jobbik continues to stand firmly for the autonomy efforts of our separated brothers, including the Hungarians of Transcarpathia. The threat of the Islamic State is seen by us, and, of course, against the persecution of Christians, we raise our voice, but here we must see the responsibility of the United States of America, which cannot be hidden. For our part, we cannot support participation in NATO missions that do not serve Hungary's interests. And I would like to devote a few more thoughts to the issue of energy security. We have a very strong position here, too. We say that an alternative gas pipeline is needed, because diversification of the transport route would be extremely important to ensure gas supply to our country, regardless of the situation in Ukraine. This should be possible from as many directions as possible. We have also made proposals in this regard recently. Overall, we appreciate that, although there have been some changes in foreign policy, unfortunately, Hungary's foreign policy has still failed to break the dead end of unilateral Euroatlantic dependence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-14	Dear House, On this day, Mr Tamás Harangozó, on behalf of the MSZP, asked for a speech before the agenda. Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-12-08-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Last week, in the private television of Fidesz-KDNP, this morning's M1 programme, the still objective and highly prepared host held the following question against the pro-government politician Péter Harrach, who was visiting him:, The other day I saw an interesting statement, a survey showing that some children don't go to school without breakfast because parents can't prepare or pack it, but they're simply not hungry. By the time the Christian family-friendly national response came soon, I quote also literally: "I suppose it is a matter of life. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, This statement rightly upset many people in this country. Yet, in a cynical sense, Péter Harrach is right, because thanks to you, hunger is indeed a matter of life and life for half a million Hungarian children every day. As is the question of life form, more than a third of people live in poverty in Hungary today. And, yes, thanks to you, the question of life-form is crippled by about a million people working every day, who, although they have jobs and salaries, make a living, maintain a family and feed children at the same time. And it's a matter of life-form for millions today to wait weeks for a bloody blood test, a CT scan, if their health is at risk. In the meantime, you will be charging more and more taxes, increasing the price of food, taxing basic sanitary products, imposing mandatory drug tests on our children instead of charging children to hunger or ensuring that children have access to medical care, regardless of their income situation. They continue to stick to Europe's highest VAT, which everyone pays every day, and almost everyone, insists on their completely flawed and lying personal income tax system, where the worker pays the same key as the billionaire oligarch. They continue to build empty stadiums for hundreds of billions of dollars, continue with the tramp dog, the dirt dog, hush with banks, settlement bonds, real estate, almost everything they have access to. They continue to hide and deny corruption cases and the people involved, and they want to continue to drive our country from where it has been since St. Stephen's place in Europe. Because it's a matter of life for you. The cynicism, the arrogance, the grating, the contempt and disregard of the other, the hatred of the poor and the weak, the discrediting, the destruction of the opponents by any means. It is indeed a matter of life in Fidesz-KDNP. The biggest tragedy in Hungary is that these are the common values of the current governing parties and their politicians, headed by Viktor Orbán. That's why we're here. That's why most people think politics isn't about him or him, and that's why many people want, let's be honest, all the politicians in hell. But there are values here that could reconnect the vast majority of the country. Ours are clear. Solidarity - helping the fallen, the vulnerable, the people who live on their own work, even against the powers. Freedom - the fight against oppression and all forms of dictatorship. Security - creating security, legal certainty and security for all, no matter where they are born. And democracy - where power means the administration of our common affairs, the service of equal citizens, yes, in a controlled, transparent way, giving the parties a say. We believe in this path, and we offer partnership and cooperation to all who want to change our country. We know the road will be difficult, because there are a lot of mistrustful and deluded people. But we believe that these values will be stronger than prejudices and political intrigues. Because this country cannot go further where the current government and its parties wish to command. Fidesz can say anything, go crazy and accuse their media machines, even their paid cab revolutionaries. We, freedom-loving European Hungarians, together with intellectuals, workers, needy and decent entrepreneurs [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Let's start building a new world together that will take its place in the musty ruins of the Orbán system. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-08-16	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-12-08-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was very lyrical, especially the end of the honourable Member's speech. In the beginning we did not know what was coming out of it, in the middle it was as if he had re-enacted his chorus speech in March, which then did not work, and it didn't come in three times this year, but it would have been repeated again, and in the end it was as if we had already heard a speech from the honourable Member on behalf of the MSZP presidential nominations very quickly behind each other. We would have wanted to know a thing or two. After many weeks, we were hoping to find out where, for example, Gábor Simon paid the more than 100 million forints that someone had recently made available and was able to pay from there. But one thing we know for sure is that the Member sometimes wakes up early when he wakes up this morning. With regard to the issue of hunger for children, honourable Member, which you will bring up here in Parliament from time to time and will bring forward in other communications: I would like to ask you how much credibility the MSZP has on this issue. When we took over the possibility of governance from you in 2010, you spent HUF 29 billion on this issue, support for children's feeding, HUF 29 billion, and HUF 57 billion in next year's budget. I ask you, who in this case has more credibility to look the children in the eye, who has a greater opportunity, or who has made sure that these eyes are not hungry children's eyes, who have spent half as much or who spend twice as much. Honourable Congressman, That's very nice of you to say. It is very vivid in your speeches in Parliament. You know, when you had the opportunity to press yes to increase this item, you missed it; not for a year, but for eight years. And we have done that, although the Hungarian budget has been in a difficult situation for a long time as a Member State of the European Union affected by the economic crisis, we have, however, doubled this amount. [[13.30]] And you know very well that not only during the school months, but also during the summer period, we will spend a record amount next year on social summer children's meals. This will now be an amount of HUF 3 billion compared to 2.6 this year, and this represents an even greater increase compared to 2.3 last year. When you had the opportunity to do something about it, you didn't do anything about it, you expanded the aid camp, and we expanded the work camp with 400,000 people and reduced the unemployment camp by 150,000 people. This is not as many people as you have made unemployed, since they have increased the number of unemployed in Hungary by a quarter of a million. We have already managed to work 150,000 of these, but it is still enough work to eliminate all the negative effects of socialist governance. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: How many years do we need?]] And you know very well, Mr President, that from 1 September next year, when kindergarten is mandatory for all, from then on, every child will receive more and more quality food in kindergarten and then in primary school and high school, as we hope. That way, every child will be assured. If you look at the data, you would know very well that this year we provided 270 thousand children with meals for free, and for another 150,000 children with a discount, and for 270 plus 150,000 children with taxpayers' money, we made up for what their parents couldn't do or didn't want to do in some way. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What do you mean they didn't want to? The president's ringing the bell.]] These are the children who are in a really difficult situation, and we have been able to help them. However, there are obviously young children who are not in kindergarten yet, between 0 and 3 years old, we have developed a special food package program for them, and we will spend HUF 29 billion on it in the coming years. A special operational programme for those in need - this is what we are trying to do as a food package to improve the quality of life of infants and people in very difficult situations for other reasons, and to ensure that they eat more than once a day. But in the same way, honourable Member, we have succeeded in shortening the very long waiting lists you have inherited from you, which you have then mentioned. You may know, although you did not vote in Parliament that in the first half of this year we reduced the length of these waiting lists by 3 000 out of 1.5 billion forints, but in the last quarter the Parliament voted an extra 1 billion forints, obviously not you, but the majority of Parliament's Fidesz-KDNP, precisely to make these waiting lists even 3 thousand shorter. Honourable Congressman, This country's economy is now growing by more than 3 percent, unemployment is falling in this country, and this is what can mean the way out of poverty for everyone in the long term, not the speeches of the socialists, but the actions of the Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interjection in the same place: That's right!]]
u2014-12-08-18	Zoltán Magyar, on behalf of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The government clearly has no idea what to give Hungarian people for Christmas. Here they are with the title of Jobbik's gift proposals. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! The warranty of your election promises will expire in order on election day. Meanwhile, every day we hear which of the Fidesz leaders bought for hundreds of millions of villas in Buda, or how they hide their wealth, who knows where they got it from by writing it on one of their relatives. So it looks like you guys are gonna be okay with Christmas. This year, the bottom of the Nordmann pine will be well laid. If I told the story so far, we could also feel in a lovely little Christmas tale, but Jobbik is here in Parliament to confront you with the real facts that you tend to forget here. After all, in a very idyllic state of power, you have forgotten all this. And the miserable political leadership of the last 25 years has caused not all Hungarian families to have such a cloudy Christmas. I would like to start with the Hungarian countryside, which may have the greatest disappointment. After the socialists' open rural ruin policy, everyone thought that the government parties were hoping to bring something new, something more serious, change in the countryside. That is why they voted for you in precisely these regions. Many of you have expected to stop the depopulation of the countryside, to grow its strength again, to be honoured again, and perhaps to move towards a Hungary where birth in the countryside does not mean that someone will automatically start with a disadvantage. A lot of people believed that. In fact, I can honestly say that when I read the national rural strategy developed by József Ángyán, your former Secretary of State, I even believed for a moment that they meant it. Of course, five years have passed since then, not a single sentence of the strategy has been implemented, its creators have been removed from the decision-making situation, and billions of state land and subsidies have come to your narrow interest. Therefore, we submitted on Friday, without changing a single letter, the national rural strategy. This is what Jobbik and the Hungarian countryside are asking for for Christmas, not only to adopt this strategy, but also to implement it. By a brutal increase in the food chain inspection fee, they will not achieve the objective that they are constantly saying here. It is estimated by careful experts that every year, multi-million-dollar profits are pumped out of the country free of tax. An average person is being dragged for a few thousand forints, and these corporate empires have been leaving for many, tens of billions for decades. From these, the thousand billion-dollar scale, something should be carved down and kept at home, not further covered by the fraud of food trade. After all, these items could be used significantly, for example, and I will mention later, the reduction of the VAT. Instead of taking this brutal amount, they come up with measures that make food more expensive. I would like to highlight the position of CBA, which is being added to a kind of beneficiary status, even though CBA does not show that it treats its employees or its suppliers more fairly than any of its competitors. In this area, we demand that the small and medium-sized producer be able to get on the shelves of shops under reasonable conditions, not the shelves money and not the doggy decide which family can stay on their feet and which ones can't. So that's what Jobbik and the farmers are asking you to do for Christmas. But we also ask for something that can make a difference that is immediately felt and meaningful to all Hungarians. Finally, take the Jobbik's proposal to at least cut back Europe's highest VAT in the area of basic food. At least in this segment, dare to act in behalf of people and reduce this VAT to 5 percent. By creating an appropriate legal environment, it can be guaranteed that the VAT reduction does not increase the profits of the trade chains. And by whitening the economy, honest producers would benefit, and let's face it, the state would also have more revenue. By reducing the VAT on basic foods, all Hungarians would feel that they have received a Christmas package from the government. Believe me, people don't expect a miracle from you, just what they believe to be expected: affordable and quality domestic food for families. This is what every Hungarian family demands of us, we demand of you. Please take immediate, effective steps to achieve this. At least they can put these three little packages on the family table! There are still a few more weeks to accomplish this. That's what Jobbik wants for Christmas. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-20	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In fact, we are in a very many situations where what you are saying, in terms of what would be good or how it would be worth doing, we can even agree on that. The difference between us is pretty much always explained by the fact that you don't think things happen that way, and I'm saying that in a lot of cases, things happen that way. With regard to the country's frustration, I would just like to mention to you, of course, different political frustration and different everyday disappointment. However, we are over three elections this year, and for the time being, these figures do not show that they do not support what you say that people are disillusioned with the policy that this government is carrying, but that they seem to support it by the way. If you ask me whether I am satisfied personally or even the government with the amount of resources available to catch up with the countryside, the answer is clear. I also think that much more money would be needed. However, until 2020, there will be a grant of HUF 1200 billion and EU funding in the countryside. And this is just part of the community support, and there is also national support. If you look at how much has been built and built in Hungary over the last four years, I hope that you too will see that the process of catching up is taking place. You probably think it's slower than it should be, but I say this 1200 billion forints is also very useful and good support for rural people. The number of government programmes to which they favour and how they favour us will continue to have this debate for a long time. He also mentioned state land. What I can tell you is that we can't tell you from the number of people who used these lands before, and how many people are using these lands now, and there is still a 10-fold process here. While 600 people used these lands before 2010, more than 6,000 people now use these lands. [[13.40]] You're saying that few people benefit from subsidies. But we have just made the decision not to give a lot of money to the large ones in respect of area payments, but to push down the border and say that no one will receive area payments over 1,200 hectares. He says that small farmers should be on the shelves of the shops. Again, I agree with you, so it could or should be more space, but we have been doing this for exactly four years now, with sectoral taxes and various government measures, we are pushing multinational companies who are trying to exploit the opportunities in Hungary, take the extra profit, and then Hungarian producers will not have the opportunity. If I just take the view that over 190 local producer markets have been opened in the last four years, which is exactly what you are complaining about or asking how local producers can enter the trade cycle, then I think this is precisely what this measure is showing. With regard to the reduction of VAT on food. VAT has been reduced for live pigs, half-carcases and for many other small ruminants. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The goat's VAT has been reduced. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] What I can tell you is that these measures obviously consist of interrelated processes, that it cannot be taken at the beginning of the action that will otherwise have to be taken programmed at the end of a longer perspective, that we need to see clearly what it brings to the budget, that it is possible to maintain the budgetary balance and that these measures can then be taken. With regard to domestic food, I would also like to suggest, say, the pig programme, which is available with billions of HUF or animal welfare subsidies, which also show that there is progress in this area. What I can tell you is that I agree with you that a much more decorative and larger Christmas present would be good for everyone, and I would just like to ask you to take into account government measures, budgetary options and legislative options. In particular, I believe that we have taken steps in the last four years that could not even be hoped for for for many decades before. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-22	Speaking also before the agenda, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, asked for the floor between two chairs with the title "Government" on the ground. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Minister Lords! Ladies and gentlemen, A few days ago, it was discovered that a nuclear reactor had malfunctioned in Ukraine. I was right here in this Chamber when word got out, and I saw that even my fellow Members who, by the way, believe themselves to be pro-Atomics were startled. If we can believe the authorities there, fortunately, there has been no more serious damage. If that's the case, we're lucky. Lucky. That's it, and that's it, because nuclear power, as such, is always risky and always threatening. And somehow, the reflexes of those protecting nuclear energy work the same way. We remember him back in 1986, in the time of the Chernobyl disaster, as we do now, days have passed until we had substantial information. Why is it always like this, over and over again? Nuclear power as such is not safe, so LMP believes that the Paks expansion should be stopped, Russian credit should not be taken out and that renewable energy sources should be given space immediately. However, for some reason, you are very attached to the Paks II. project. We have always known that you are not, to put it mildly, Grail knights, and we have told you many times that the impenetrable Paks expansion is the hotbed of corruption. But here's the latest bill you've submitted, which is practically a confession. In the latest Sestas proposal, you have virtually codified the free robbery. What you want is to prevent us from getting to know the most basic information about the ever more questionable investment. They'd encrypt everything, it's being codified in the bill, and they'd block all possible forms of control. Whether it's spending money or investing in it itself. Dear Secretary of State, Are you guys really scared? Do you really need this money? Slow down a bit because they're not building a shed in the yard, they're in the middle of a nuclear project, and in this shameful proposal, it's also about relaxing professional requirements and making this loan available for other purposes. Since everything is classified, the money can be spent on something else, we wouldn't be able to do it during the project, since half the money available has been spent on something else. But to go further, if this proposal goes through, it also includes the fact that you can sell this nuclear power plant. Who would you like to sell to, Mr. Secretary? If it isn't the Russians. I understand that, Attila Aszodi, Commissioner of the Government, has tried to deny this, but the example he raised in the British example is actually about the exact fact that those nuclear reactors are in foreign hands, and according to our current knowledge, the purchase of electricity will cost about twice as much as is currently the case in the free market. We understand, so what we are talking about is that if you do this, Rosatom will receive extra profit from the Hungarian taxpayers' money. By the way, in your radio interview this Friday, the Prime Minister also suggested that this would be a treaty that could be withdrawn. I ask you, under what conditions? I can see that it's already in the current treaties that the Russians' hair doesn't bend. But we, our economy, will be ruined. [[L. Simon László: Falls to dust.]] Does Vladimir Putin mean so much to you and so little to the Hungarian nation? I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State. Let us say that if we can no longer trust you, we can now see this clearly, but there is one thing we can hope for, and the failure of the South Stream points precisely to the fact that the Russians, if they wish to do so at the moment, will take action straight in the head. Compared to this, we Hungarians, you led Hungary, would go further along the Lenin road. Dear Secretary of State, Why are you doing this? Notice that you are pursuing a completely flawed foreign policy, along with a completely outdated energy policy, while the country is drowning in corruption. This Sestak bill, which you presented here under the radar, is actually a scandal. This is the beginning of a blind flight. If that happens, no one will ever see where you put the Paks loan again. Technically, we won't notice if you guys steal the country, steal the money for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Is there anyone else in Fidesz, my fellow Members, who understands what that leads to, how disastrous and tragic the consequences of a nuclear project from which anyone who wants to go bad? Does the word "security" mean anything else to you? What are they up to? What's this whole Sestas proposal for? Why did they codify the free robbery? Dear Secretary of State, The May Other Politics asks you to withdraw immediately from the Paks expansion plan, cancel the contracts, withdraw this Sesztas bill immediately and finally begin XXI. Act like a government of the century, start giving space to energy saving, renewables, and think in alliance, in cooperation with the traditional countries, the European Union, of which we have been a member for a long time. Act as a European Union State Thank you.
u2014-12-08-24	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Aradski. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-25	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If I understand what you're saying, this can be summarised in three words: no, no, no. We believe that we answer the sexes with three yeses: yes, yes, yes. The Hungarian energy strategy was adopted in 2011 with a 2030 outlook between Parliament's walls, which determines in the long term that the Hungarian energy mix consists of three elements: nuclear energy sources, the other fossil energy generation, and the third renewable energy production. In this respect, we have prepared the investment in the capacity maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant so secretly that the relevant Russian-Hungarian interstate agreement was discussed secretly here within the walls of this house. We also decided secretly here, within the walls of this house, that the Hungarian State could also conclude the necessary financing agreement against the Russian party. I also have to say that we have now submitted secretly to the Paks II. a law that comprehensively regulates the process of this process, which records the things that are necessary for a successful project design. We have also decided secretly that in order to improve and strengthen safer work and official controls, the Hungarian Atomic Energy Agency will receive special support for Paks II. The legal conditions of the investment, i.e. control, safety, safe working conditions, the purpose of safe operation can be monitored as effectively and as professionally as possible. [[13.50]] Although secretly, you say, we have also informed the European Union about the investment in an appropriate way; we have properly informed the related treaties and informed the International Atomic Energy Agency accordingly. I must also add that these works have such a stable history that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant currently in operation is the safest nuclear power plant in Europe. After the events in Fukushima, we did several tests on safety. These have demonstrated that Europe is one of the safest, several-round protected plants in the nuclear industry. I think, honourable Member, that our priority is to create a long-term energy security. To achieve this long-term energy security, it is essential to build the investment needed to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in a European way under EU control. Similarly, the British nuclear power plant in England has been or will be completed in a European way; similarly, the same type of nuclear power plant in Finland will be produced by Russian investors; similarly, in Mohi, a Russian-type nuclear power plant will be produced in a European way, and we will be on the same path, and on the same path we will be able to ensure the energy security that Hungarian society rightly expects of us and future governments. I believe that these sexes serve nothing but to keep the Hungarian economy uncertain. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: To keep the economy alive!]] keep the Hungarian economy uncertain about how it can manage, how it can expect the right quality of energy supply, the right capacity, because, in the absence of this, while maintaining this uncertainty, it is not expected to reindustrialise the Hungarian economy, the recovery that the Hungarian Government, Fidesz and KDNP have set out to have more jobs, to have more secure actions in the country, and to succeed in putting this country in a favourable position that I believe it has never been in since the change of regime. [[Noise, interrogations in the benches of the opposition. Sprayy applause in the benches of the MSZP.]] This requires the investment of a nuclear power plant. It's necessary for that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] maintaining the level of energy services. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Long live the '70s, Mr. Secretary of State! Long live the '70s!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-26	If Mrs Bernadett Wind is not sufficient to say what she has to say in five minutes, then make a proposal to amend the house rules, we will consider it. We're setting a time frame for you. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Thank you very much.]] Mr László Földi, on behalf of the KDNP, also applied for a pre-meeting address entitled "Sports and Sports." Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has been living in the magic of sports since yesterday, as the handball European Championship with Croatia has started; in Győr and Debrecen, ladies can prove their talents and support us as a sports nation. A Hungarian world competition is important not only because of the successes, but also because of the image of our country. The marketing value of a successful, well-organized sporting event is invaluable because it really brings our reputation to Europe and the world. In almost all cases, the echo of events in Hungary is positive, or good for the image of our country. In the number of big events, progress is more than spectacular, as in 2009 we had only two major world competitions, whereas this year there will be more than 20 competitions, more than 30 competitions next year, and there will be more than 30 European or world competitions in the country in 16 as well. In addition, the World Water Championship will stand out in 2021, i.e. we are already a great power in the settlement and effectiveness. The data listed shows that we are capable of outstanding performance in sport, and thanks to the construction and development of sports facilities, we can already arrange significant events. Of course, the value of this can only be really increased if we become not only a sportsman but also an athletic nation; because in this case we can really benefit from the results. Well, we have results in this direction, too. In recent years, the number of children who compete as certified athletes in clubs has increased by 100,000. Growth is steady, but the goal is to have at least 500,000 young athletes in the country. Many say that it is impossible to achieve this because it is difficult to seduce young people today from the computer or television, but I am much more optimistic than that. My optimism is no coincidence. In Hungary, the student Olympics now have a 28-year-old past, and this also reduces their counterparts worldwide. Every year, the Hungarian Student Sport Association offers nearly 300,000 children the opportunity to play sports with this event. Everyone can participate in this competition, everyone can get a success experience, they don't have to prove themselves to an association, they just have to attend school classes and they have to call it a student Olympics. Of course, not all children of the age will become athletes, Olympics, or world champions. This is not the main goal for all children to be outstanding athletes, just as important or perhaps even more important, to live healthyly, to get used to regular exercise. Healthy young people will grow up to be strong adults, and this has economic implications. It's hard to measure how healthy a child is, how fit he is. At the same time, a new measurement system will be introduced in schools from January, Netfit developed by the already mentioned Hungarian Student Sport Association. This will give us a precise picture of the health of young people, and we will see how they need to develop. Yeah, I know that's when people say that we don't want kids to live healthy if they don't have a place to play sports. On the one hand, the already mentioned sports facility development programme shows great results, and on the other hand, the associations could also develop using the tao programme. It wasn't any different on Cegléd. Our city has several cutting-edge departments, wrestlers and conjurers are particularly successful. In their interest, the city has developed sports facilities beyond power, but of course it also required government support. All in all, we are lucky because we can be sure of many things. One is that there are athletic role models in front of young people. Let's hope the women's handball team is making us happy. The other is that we are full of talented athletes, and we can be sure that we are taking great steps towards becoming a true athlete nation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-28	I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me thank the Member for bringing the noble cause of sport to this House today, because in this country where we live, we have sports traditions that have won 486 Olympic medals for our athletes, and indeed we Hungarians can modestly say that we are a great power in sport. At the same time, what Congressman has said about the sports skiers in Cegléd is true, as the judoists and wrestlers prove their knowledge on a select level, and obviously, as a Member of Parliament in the region, you can also be proud of athletes, children who are adults in Cegléd and Cegléd. We parents, I think, all of us - I have three children too - are all looking for how we can raise our children into valuable people and raise healthy generations through them. Sport is a very good educational tool. Sport gives us the opportunity to raise our children to values, to raise them to health, physically and spiritually. And, as the congressman said, we want to build a sports nation, we want to build an athletic nation, and I would add that perhaps even more, because not only do we want every child to play sports, our goal is not only to have 500,000 children who are certified to play sports in clubs and associations - this number is now 330 thousand - but we want to have a sporty nation. Let us have a sports-like nation, since a fair-playing nation that holds the value of sport is sporty against each other. [[14.00]] In our human relations, in our social relations, it is important to be sporty. This is important for opposition representatives, it is important for pro-government representatives. Sport strengthens all of us, raises and enriches all of us. Sport is a key to the functioning of society, we all know that, because through sport we can see what we are missing, we can see what improvements we have to make in sports facilities compared to Europe, because our predecessors have left behind a very serious legacy, they have left behind, unfortunately, and we have to change that. We have set a three-way target system in the field of sport. One of our goals is that all children should play sports in Hungary, because in the case of a country with such traditions, we need this, and if we really think seriously about raising healthy generations, then we must use sport as a tool, and we must also use it as a specific magical tool. Our other goal was, and in this spirit we are working to bring as many competitions, sports competitions and world competitions to Hungary as possible. This is why while, let's say, in 2009, there were two international sports competitions in Hungary, this number will rise to 41 in 2015, so we will bring 41 world competitions, world championships, European Championships, world cups and European Cups to Hungary so that Hungarian fans can support our beloved athletes at home. Our third most important objective is that, yes, we need sports facilities. We need the arena of Győr, handball halls, basketball academies and the necessary tracks, running circles, tourist houses, hiking trips, schoolhouses [[Károly Kontrat: Spike Hall.]] To Tüskekcsarnok - thank the Secretary of State Kontra - to the new jewel of Újbuda, so that as many children as possible can play sports. What we see is that we welcome our children, we welcome these decisions by athletes, because very, very many people are involved in these competitions, and we bring joy to very, very many families through this. Just let me give you two numbers. In basketball, thanks to the work of the last three years, 18 thousand more players play basketball, we have 18 thousand children, and we have proof athletes of age. It's a huge achievement. I hope that this number will continue to grow. I hope that the programs, the professional programs that help our children to get to know basketball, karate, handball or football, start and try themselves through sport, because through sport we can also develop a very important self-knowledge in our children, learn about their own weaknesses and their own strengths. Sport helps them to be healthy adults and to be adults with adequate self - knowledge and self - respect. So we're working in the crossfire of this target system three. I hope that this speech by Mr President will further help us to ensure that as many people as possible can play sports in Hungary, that as many people as possible live in sport, and that through this the Hungarian nation will truly become an athletic nation, and will also claim to be a sportsman. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-30	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Internet tax in the United States. How about this, Mr. Goodfriend? Mr Antal Rogán, Head of Group, on behalf of Fidesz, gives the last post before today's agenda. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a country whose first man proposed to tax Internet services by extending the telecom tax last week. [[Noise, murmuring in the ranks of the governing parties.]] This country is the United States of America and its first man, and the proposer is President Barack Obama. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] So, I would like to say once again, Barack Obama suggested that the Internet be taxed by extending the telecommunications tax, and I feel, fellow Members, that this weekend we may have missed the cries and voices that were talking about this attack on freedom and what a serious challenge, which, by the way, concerns freedom. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, when the Hungarian Government made a similar proposal, we saw that, of course, the European Commission's Vice-President Neelie Kroes, who is a liberal Dutch politician responsible for digital affairs, spoke immediately, who, of course, immediately declared this a serious attack on freedom. This opinion was joined by Mr. Goodfriend, the U.S. Attorney General, who personally participated in demonstrations on the streets of Budapest in Hungary. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] My fellow opponents, of course, encouraged Hungarian people to protest against this proposal elsewhere, in front of Hungarian embassies abroad. For our part, we have considered the views of the people and rejected the proposal. We would now like to know, ladies and gentlemen, whether the Hungarian opposition parties will announce a demonstration in the spirit of freedom before the American Embassy in Budapest. [[Noise, uproar, sporadic applause in the pro-government benches.]] We would like to know, ladies and gentlemen, whether the Vice-President of the European Commission will speak on this matter. We're wondering if Mr. Goodfriend is going to protest his own boss, the President of the United States of America, and his proposal. [[Noise, intervention from the opposition benches: You can be sure.]] Because if all this does not happen, honourable Members, then it is clear that everything that has happened in Hungary in recent weeks is nothing more than hypocrisy. And the attitude that you've even shown [[Intruders from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame on you!]] either the Vice-President of the European Commission or the representative of the United States of America, is a hypocritical attitude. And this hypocritical attitude served nothing but the purpose and sole purpose of otherwise concealing the attempt to intervene in Hungary's sovereignty. Unfortunately, we have seen the attack on Hungary's sovereignty in other areas, as in recent weeks we have seen that the US's Hungarian administrator, Mr. Goodfriend, does not have to make any accusations. At a time when Hungarian civil servants are banned from the United States on grounds of corruption, they do not tell us what this is about, otherwise they make no specific accusations, but merely the judgment. This exercise is familiar, by the way, fellow Members. [[Noise, interruptions from both sides. The president's ringing the bell.]] We have seen this in Hungary a few decades earlier, from representatives of another great power, who also wrote the sentence first and then presented the indictment. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that in this form of attacks on Hungary's sovereignty, and this hypocritical attitude, everyone must recognize all the drawbacks. I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members to be the supporters and supporters of a strong Hungary. We can fight our internal debates, but I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that if you are serious about Hungary being a sovereign and strong country, you should not serve the interests of other great powers in your country, but also stand up for Hungary when it is clear that Hungary's sovereignty is being attacked by outside interests, because I think that is our common interest, honourable Members. I trust that you will learn from this case, and you will notice that you have played only one of those hypocritical, deceitful, two-faced behaviors, where you have simply spoken in Hungary for a great deal of interest and did not look at the interests of the Hungarian people or the Hungarian families. [[Uproar, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] You have been sent to Parliament to represent the interests of Hungarian families, not the interests of other major powers or large companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Delight and applause in the ranks of the MSZP. The interrogation of Zoltán Lukács.]]
u2014-12-08-32	As I see it, the Government does not wish to respond to the speech of the Member State. [[Defiance, uproar and interrogations from the opposition benches. András Tállai from the ministerial seat goes to the seat of his representatives. Forebear Novak: Greetings. From the pulpit! Interview from the lines of the MSZP: What's going on? He resigned?]] Dear Parliament, I have an unusual request for my fellow opposition Members: calm down a bit. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2014-12-08-33	Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, Jobbik; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz; István Ikotity, LMP. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward to address the agenda: Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz. Márta Demeter, MSZP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP.Márta Demeter, MSZP, applied for the speech after the agenda on Wednesday.
u2014-12-08-34	Dear Parliament, Now, the certificate of mandate and the oath of its representatives. I would like to inform the House that Imre Horváth has obtained the mandate as a candidate of the Hungarian Socialist Party in the interim election that has been vacant due to the death of our fellow Member Péter Kiss. [[14.10]] The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Imre Horváth's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who has the result of the examination of the mandate, in accordance with the rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-35	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a fact known to you, on the 29th of July 2014, Péter Kiss, our fellow Member, former Chancellor, received a mandate as a joint candidate for the nomination organisations MSZP-Cooperation-DK-PM-MLP in the 11th constituency of Budapest. At the interim election held on 23 November 2014, Imre Horváth, the candidate of MSZP, obtained the majority of the votes. The parliamentary single mandate constituency election committee No. 11 of Budapest IK/45/2014. In its resolution of 28 November 2014, Imre Horváth stated that he had obtained a mandate in the parliamentary single mandate constituencies. On 1 December 2014, the decision became final at 4 p.m. The transfer of the credentials took place on 1 December 2014 at 5:30 p.m. XXXVI of 2012 on the functioning of the Parliament Act No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 9. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of the Section, the immunity committee examined the documents necessary for the confirmation of the mandate of Imre Horváth, on the basis of which it made the following decision unanimously, without abstentions and against votes:. The immunity committee proposes to the Hungarian Parliament to justify the mandate of Imre Horváth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At the same time, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr Horváth has indicated in his statement that there is no conflict of interest against him, and that he can therefore exercise his rights as a representative after taking the oath. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-08-36	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted, and the mandate will be confirmed by the Parliament without debate. So I ask this House whether Imre Horváth's mandate is justified. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the decision: the House confirmed Imre Horváth's mandate by 160 votes in favour with one abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask Congressman Imre Horváth to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I ask Mr. Nándor Gúr to read the words of the oath, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to rise. [[The people in this room stand up. Imre Horváth steps into the middle of the room. Nándor Gúr reads the words of the oath.]]
u2014-12-08-37	I, I am Imre Horváth, swearing that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, upholding its laws and keeping it with others; exercising my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2014-12-08-38	Dear Parliament, After the oath, I ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and Mr Imre Horváth to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Imre Horváth and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish our new fellow Member an effective work and good luck. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 198. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present it.
u2014-12-08-39	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and LXIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 52. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Act, I appointed Mr Ference Takács as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 8 December 2014. Budapest, 3 December 2014 Sincerely: János Áder
u2014-12-08-40	Dear House, On behalf of myself and the Parliament, I congratulate the Secretary of State and wish him every success in his work. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We will decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits, the speech by the keynote speaker on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I would like to inform you that the Jobbik Group has not initiated T/1821 in writing. The discussion of and decision-making on the subject of the series of legislative proposals, so that this is not on the agenda of the meeting. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation that has been amended. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Now, at 2:19 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. [[For signal:]] Excuse me, the notary indicates that Tamás Harangozó is asking for the floor on a point of order. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't quite hear which agenda proposal was not to be discussed, but in the material you sent, T/2083. Legislative proposal No 14 is included as item 14 on Tuesday. This is the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is also mentioned in the proposal in the submission that the proposal was partially discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 4 December, but the summarised amendment and summary report was not submitted. I would also like to clarify this, because I was present: we did not discuss this law in part, and it was found at the meeting of the Legislative Committee that the Government had formally tabled a completely incorrect proposal, and after that, both the Government and the Legislative Committee unanimously removed this proposal from their agenda. Since then, the TAB has neither met nor discussed it. I would like to ask how, in the absence of a summary amendment, tomorrow's House will be able to negotiate this law and hold a summary debate on a proposal which has not yet been discussed by the Committee. If we appreciate it, if we feel good, then this proposal cannot be negotiated this week, but this week the TAB will have to deal with it, and we will only be able to discuss it next week. Obviously, our initiative and our comments are to remove this bill from the agenda. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-42	Congressman! The solution to the legitimate dilemma raised by you is that the government will announce this withdrawal at the place of trial, that is, when it is on the agenda. [[14.20]] Can we continue our work? Only because there was a point of order. If so, then László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: å Did you find Order in Miskolc in two weeks? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2014-12-08-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Miskolc came back to the front page with negative news, unfortunately again in connection with serious public safety problems. In the last few months, there have been several serious crimes, including multiple rapes in the city, in two cases in broad daylight, on the street. In September, the press reported that a woman was attacked near a high school in Avas; she tried to escape; the attacker stabbed her victim several times, and then fled the scene, but only professional and rapid medical intervention saved her life. About two weeks ago, a rapist on the open street near St. Anna's Square attacked his 20 - year - old victim a few hundred meters away from two high schools, dragged to a bushy section. All this happened in the afternoon, in broad daylight. The unsub was found, but after he broke into and attacked a 60-year-old woman. Also in recent days, news of a very, very serious bank robbery has been in the press. Although there were many other violent crimes in the city, the Fidesz majority assembly recently adopted a report on public order and public security processes. According to this, public order and public security have been strengthened. On the other hand, two years ago data revealed that the number of known crimes in the city increased by some 40 percent from one year to the next. Obviously, the solution to this huge problem can only be solved in a complex way: with a continuous police presence, regular official control, support for civil guard, development of a surveillance camera system, improvement of public lighting, management of social problems and awareness campaigns are also necessary. It would also be important to increase the confidence of citizens in the police, as our experience is that minor crimes are no longer reported to the police, since citizens do not have much hope of finding the perpetrator. The problem is the burden of the stock, the emigration, the constant fluctuations. There's also a problem with the most basic terms and conditions, according to my opinion, with the police. Meanwhile, tens of billions were spent on the Counter-Terrorism Center, only thousands of these funds could have been put into service. While the current stock is also entrusted with other tasks than the operation of the e-toll system and road speed measurement. It's just these two have about a thousand and a half cops in their daily lives. In 2010, you promised to clean up in two weeks. On the other hand, the most basic conditions are often a problem in police work. They promised a police station in a hole over four years ago. To this day, nothing has come of it. So I'm gonna ask you, Secretary of State, if you think it's settled in Miskolc in two weeks. Will the police station you promised so many times be set up? I ask Mr Secretary of State what measures are being taken to improve the security of Miskolc. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-44	State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We can never be satisfied with improving public safety, we know that we must do more every day than we did yesterday. The police act in this spirit and act against all criminals on the basis of zero tolerance. I would also like to remind you, honourable Member, that if you had voted in favour of the laws that we have put before Parliament in order to strengthen public security instead of alarming us, we would have advanced even in Miskolc and in other settlements in the country. Our colleagues have worked a lot in Miskolc in recent years, and I thank you here in front of the public of this House. In order to prevent criminal offences and to ensure the efficient use of available means, the joint bodies, the city mayor's office with the right of Miskolc County, the official department, the public area control and police department, the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Polgárőr Association and the field guard service are also involved in the implementation of the increased controls. The number of crimes committed in the public area in the city has been decreasing since 2010: 1807 in 2010, 1679 in 2011 and 167 in 2012 and 1457 in 2013. This, honourable Member, means that the number of crimes committed in the public domain over the last four years has decreased by nearly 20 percent in Miskolc compared to the 2010 figure. On 25 September 2013, we launched the public safety model program in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Hajdú-Bihar, Heves, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg counties. Based on the experience and fact data, the positive feedback from the population and municipalities showed that the programme was extended to all the municipalities of Hungary on 1 July 2014, so it now affects 3154 municipalities. Thanks to the public security model program, the number of thefts in Miskolc decreased by 11 percent in 2013 compared to 2012, while the number of robberies decreased by 20 percent. The number of robberies decreased by nearly 6 percent in 2013. In order to increase the public's sense of security and to prevent illegal acts, increased controls will be carried out in particular in the Miskolc-Lyukovölgy part of the city for a period of 24 hours a day. The security of the region has been constantly being given special attention by the police department for many years, so on 1 September 2011, a four-person district trustee group was established, which still operates, with its staff operating in the KMB Office in Pest from 28 May 2013. At present, the establishment of the Hollow Valley Police Department is not on the agenda, given that the appropriate police force is provided by the KMB Group to strengthen public security. Honourable Congressman, Miskolcs can trust the police and count on the police to help them. I would like to highlight the cooperation with the local government and the vigilante. And while you mentioned the Civil Guard in your interpellation, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the 2015 budget 1 billion HUF 50 million is available to support the Civil Guard. I ask that, if you really consider public security to be important, you can also do so by voting in favour of this proposal. For the future, the expected objective is to further strengthen public security, to which the Miskolcs can continue to rely on confirmatory units. I trust that the Miskolc may feel that they are living in greater security today than before. I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-46	Congressman's word for rejoinder. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to inform you that you have two-thirds of them, and it's been almost five years. And obviously they also had a wide range of proposals to improve public safety, and we supported some of them, but these five years have already been your policy. And unfortunately, it didn't get any better, no matter what you say. For example, the situation has improved by 6 percent for some types of crime. The fact is, however, that the number of crimes in the Miskolc Police Department increased from 11 to 12, by 40 percent. There is a very small improvement compared to this, but the situation is much worse than it was four or five years ago. Trust me, this isn't a scare. You know, the everyday life of the Miskolcs is marked by this public safety problem, which should be resolved very firmly. I'm saying this because this city has a lot of value, believe me, values I'd much rather talk about in front of Parliament and the public of the country. However, since you don't handle public safety issues, so I have the opportunity to do so, I have to interpel in this case. But since he didn't say anything about the P.O.P.D. in Közös, or even that he won't be unchanged, I can't accept his answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-48	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the House whether it accepts it. Vote! Vote! [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 107 votes to 41, with no abstentions. Dear House, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: "Does the government undertake to fight freedom against Brussels in order to ensure the energy security of our country? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-49	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I must say that in the last week, as a result of the changed foreign policy conditions, I am going to say my initial implementation text slightly modified, as I have sent it to you. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary and, in particular, the safe supply of natural gas to Hungarian consumers is a fundamental national strategic interest, I think, especially at the beginning of winter we can all see this. Spring and route diversification of gas supply in our country has been re-established in the context of the Ukrainian conflict. [[14.30]] In other words, the search for alternative solutions to replace gas pipelines via Ukraine. In this spirit, the South Stream gas pipeline was also appreciated for our country, which would have been the most optimal solution in terms of reality. It is true that it would have transported the same Russian gas, but it would have come to Europe by circumventing the conflicted region. The other great advantage is that it would have come through our country, which would have been of particular importance to Hungary. A week ago, Putin and Erdoğan met heads of state in Ankara. We've known since the South Stream was probably off the table. At the moment, however, several alternatives are open to Hungary. Of course, it is very important to bi-directionalise the cross-border capacity of our joint gas pipelines with neighbouring countries - this has happened in part so far - but without an alternative version of the South Stream, we would only be more difficult and expensive to supply gas to Hungary on these routes. That is why the Jobbik Hungary Movement is watching, worrying about the political storm that the European Union has been stirring up to make the investment, and now it seems to be successfully preventing it. We can see clearly in the example of Bulgaria what the opposite interest can do, the global struggle for the provision of energy resources and transport routes: it removes governments and intervenes in the internal affairs of independent states. In Hungary, too, in recent weeks and months, the pressure that has been ringing in to us as a result of the struggle between the two great powers. Jobbik's firm position in this regard is that we Hungarian politicians should only have Hungary's energy strategy interests in mind, not allowing power pressure in any direction. This is also particularly true of our energy supply. It is clear that Ukraine is expected to have a long-term continuation of the conflict. So I would ask, since Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is fond of fighting for freedom of expression towards Brussels, whether Hungary is willing to stand stone hard and decisively before the European Commission on this very important issue, together with other interested countries, for our interests and for the alternative solution which [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it will allow natural gas to arrive in Hungary cheaply and with adequate security. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-50	András Aradski, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2014-12-08-51	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, With regard to the question in the title of the interpellation, I can say that we agree on one important point: whether it is winter or summer or autumn, the supply of natural gas to consumers is not only a fundamental national strategic interest, but also a government obligation and responsibility to ensure and ensure care. The conflict in Ukraine has indeed again highlighted the security of supply role of transit routes, as well as the need for investments to combat Hungarian route and source diversification efforts and unilateral import dependency. In addition to the security of energy supply and its national competence, the Hungarian Government remains unbroken about the sovereignty of energy policy making, including the free definition of the energy mix and the associated international decisions. Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation, announced on 1 December 2014 that Russia cannot start implementing the South Stream gas pipeline plan under the current circumstances and due to the opposition of the European Union. Russia had the right to make a decision on the South Stream, and Hungary acknowledges this decision by acknowledging that its most important task is to ensure the supply of gas to Hungarian people in winter. We want to achieve this requirement with domestic storage charges, continuous domestic extraction and the purchase of alternative sources of import, which will ensure our supply of natural gas in the winter months. In addition, the government is ready to take further steps to improve security of supply if necessary. In this context, the assessment of infrastructure projects to strengthen security of supply in Hungary has not changed substantially. Following Russia's decision on South Stream, Hungary re-evaluates the possibilities and is ready to continue to ensure its presence in major international gas transport projects, even if these projects are changed from time to time due to changes in international law, political or economic environment. Among the diversification projects, priority is given to the transfer of gas from Azerbaijan to Central Europe through the Southern Corridor. At his visit to Budapest, President Ilham Aliyev demonstrated his willingness to transport gas to Central Europe through the southern corridor. In particular, cross-border pipelines linking national gas transmission systems, which do not yet exist or only partially exists. Russia remains an important partner, with the transfer of Russian gas to Turkey opening up a new opportunity for us in our efforts to diversify routes. However, this is just one of the options. We now need to look at all the possibilities to resolve Hungary's secure energy supply in the long term. In addition, the Hungarian Government wishes to place a special emphasis on eliminating the isolation of countries dependent on us, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina from the point of view of supply, because in all circumstances the supply of these countries must also be ensured in the spirit of solidarity. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Dr. Bernadett Szél present the Santa package to János Pócs. Noise.]] Great emphasis should be placed on the energy security of the region from the EUR 300 billion investment plan initiated by the European Commission [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] projects for improvement. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-08-52	I ask the honourable Member whether he accepts the answer.
u2014-12-08-53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Unfortunately, I haven't heard a lot of definite things out of him. The process that bothers me, you know, I'll tell you honestly, is that once Putin and Russia announces that they're pulling out of South Stream, we're going to declare at that moment, and we're going to go back to the old plan we've seen at Nabucco, that we're bringing gas from Azerbaijan, even though we would have alternatives to Russian gas. On the other hand, Germany may have its own Nord Stream pipeline, where it can get directly to Russian gas. Hungary does not seem to have this right now. The other is where we can back down in the field of energy policy. The Paks II. In terms of investment, we see that the British can make their own investment through state aid, and in our case, the government commissioner states that if the EU considers it to be prohibited state aid, we can even withdraw from such contracts. The third is that, while Germany is opening coal mines and wind power plants to replace nuclear power, we are closing the last one with a one million tonnes capacity undergrading. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Our coal mine. Where else can we back down in energy policy? I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-54	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 102 votes to 30 with six abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Benedek Sallai, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. When will farmers have the opportunity to appeal against the arbitrary decisions of the National Land Fund Management Organisation? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2014-12-08-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I welcome you back with love. Last week, you didn't really understand the question, so I'm not trying to get a summary, but I'm reading it to make sure. The Fidesz government's public land lease tender system has proven to be an opportunity for abuse, but not for redress - I make this claim. Forty percent of the subjective scores have been included in the ground competitions in order to be evaluated at will. In addition, the applicant farmers will not be given any justification for their results, nor will they be able to know the critical forms, so it is difficult to base a case-by-case case on. At the same time, losing applications are sent back by NFA to applicants to cover their tracks. The impossible situation has recently become evident again, when the Kishantos Rural Development Centre at the Central District Court of Pest County lost first instance in a lawsuit against the Hungarian State and the National Land Fund Manager. In this regard, the rural development centre attacked the applications for the land in Kishantos, their criticism and the contract itself, as a candidate who, in his view, did not meet the conditions for the application. In the first instance, the court rejected the action of the organic economy on the grounds that the courts could only examine the validity of the contracts and not the tenders themselves. It follows that the National Land Fund can actually give state land to whoever it wants. [[14.40]] In other words, as we already suspect, there may be a bogus application for state land. The examination of the legality of tenders would be very timely by the government, in particular in the light of several obvious irregularities and abuses which have been identified recently. Recently, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's government audit office investigation initiated by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán found errors in applications for land leases belonging to the Hortobágy National Park Directorate. 5 per cent of the land lease cases were found to be defective and 10 per cent more were in question. What really happened, we won't know because the report was encrypted for ten years. In the meantime, other opposition parties have somehow managed to gain insight, and the press publicity has brought some of these things in since the administration, hasn't it? Enough 15 percent of a troubled state land lease for a national park to review the government's land map system? We have received several requests from the government in recent years regarding land affairs that, if we are aware of any violations, we have an obligation to initiate legal proceedings. Well, in this case, Kehi revealed the abuses and then encrypted them for ten years. How to initiate any procedure if there is no remedy and no access to the data? The May Other, according to Politics, the aforementioned judicial decision raises important questions about state land applications. Since in many cases it has been proven that abuse is possible in public land applications, and even the Prime Minister has noticed, how can it be that there is still no possibility to examine the legality of land applications? I look forward to your reply to this, Mr State Secretary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-12-08-56	I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Bitay. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I didn't not understand your question last week. You forgot to ask. [[It's a burst from the lines of the LMP.]] He had a three-minute time frame, but he summarized it in a minute and a half. There's a genre like that, that's what I said last week, that's before the agenda. In interpellation, however, you have to ask what you're going to ask. The fact that there is no remedy, I listened to it interestingly while he told me about the court proceedings that are under way. Of course, there is an appeal, no one can rule out redress, everyone has the right and the right to challenge any result in court. Another question is which court makes a decision in some cases, but to say that there is no remedy, to put it mildly, does not correspond to reality. You claim to cover your tracks by returning unwinnable applications. Well, I'm sorry, but what I don't understand is why a person doesn't win, and a person's complete application file is sent back by the NFA by post. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What do you think?]] He doesn't grind it, he doesn't make it disappear, he doesn't burn it, he sends it back to the candidate. And you say it's a cover-up. I don't understand why you think that. With regard to winners and losers, I would like to draw your attention: an average of 3-4 applicants applied for a property. This practically means that 2-3 losers, unfortunately - we are not happy about this, but - will always be, because only one can win these areas, and obviously those 2-3 even express their dissatisfaction because they believe they should have won. He claims that there were problems with 5 percent of the land under investigation in this case. I'm telling you, if there's a problem with a piece of land, I'm not happy either. However, I would like to say that, compared to the 5 percent that we have tenfold the number of people who use state land, there are over 6,000 winners, it does not seem to be an impossible high number, even if I am not happy with one piece, if there is something in it that is inappropriate. He claims that we've been encrypting these data, documents, for ten years. Honourable Congressman, I'd like to take this opportunity here, and I'll be very gentle, and I don't want to hurt you, but you're not telling me the truth. Encryption: no special procedure has taken place, the Government Audit Office normally carries out a decision preparation work, there is no specific procedure for it, as in any other procedure carried out by the Government Audit Office. Encryption, that never happened. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Public?]] So I'm asking you very nicely to follow up on this, and don't make any accusations about it, because it doesn't hold up at all. There was no specific procedure in this regard. Kehi's investigation files, which I said, are pre-decision materials, and no special procedures have been carried out in this regard. There are completely public inspection materials, the materials prepared by the State Audit Office are always, in any case, completely public. He claims that the Government has not looked at the amendment in the applications for land, but that is not true either, Mr President, but the Government has reviewed it. There are additional additional points for young farmers to apply at several points, or for the number of animals to be declared, but for official certificates to be issued. With regard to Kishantos, I would like to mention to you that we have been constantly attacked by illegally taking away your lands. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right, that's right!]] You are now criticizing the fact that the courts are partially final, partly in the judgment of the Court of First Instance, to the State. I'd like to ask you what the problem is. You claim that we have taken lands illegally, emphasizing this, and now it turns out that is not the case. His application expired, and the procedure was completely legal, because the court said so. Please make this point clear to us. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-58	Congressman has the floor again, please.
u2014-12-08-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your new set of pranks. So I'm going to tell you very simply: you're telling me what the court has determined. It means you can't investigate. He did not find that it was legal, but the court said that he could not examine how the tendering procedure took place in the tendering system. It is not about this to support the ethical or legal basis of the whole - once. Second, he's sending the applications back. A single applicant does not have the possibility to compare his application with anyone else's. They don't know why they didn't win, why the other didn't win. None of the applicants will know; therefore, this is also a misconception. He says there were, on average, two or three candidates for one body. No one has ever told the NFA that it is absolutely necessary to advertise 90 hectares in one or 50 hectares in one. If there's any interest, why don't you look at how many farmers you can help? Then instead of 6,000, you could say a bigger number on a regular basis. So it's bullshit again. I told you, 15 percent, you reduced it to five, the absolute flaws, but even if I look at it, it means out of the 6,000, you think 300 cases are totally acceptable. I can't accept your answer because you didn't tell me about the remedy, what the right to a real remedy is for losers. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. András Schiffer, Zoltán Magyar, Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2014-12-08-60	I ask the House whether it accepts the reply of the Secretary of State. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 102 votes to 37, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Vitányi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development. Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-12-08-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is now an economic fact that since 2010, the government has done a great deal to move Hungary from the edge of the bank. Instead of a weak country and the population condemned to passivity, there is a strong state and an active citizenship picture emerging in 2014. Then, employment increased by 200,000, while unemployment fell to a long-lost level. However, in order to achieve full employment on the government flag, we know that further job creation is needed. It is well known that the capacity of an area to create jobs is greatly affected by its infrastructure development, which is an important investor aspect on the one hand and a significant increase in the mobility of the local population on the other hand. In light of what has been said, the development of motorways 35 and M4 in Bihar is of particular importance. From my point of view, it is highly justified that the motorway from Berettyóújfalu to the border should be driven and the M35 motorway extended south from Debrecen to Berettyóújfalu, thus connecting the road users to road M4. This will make it easier for people living here to reach the capital and other remote regions. The accessibility of the airport in Debrecen would also significantly improve, facilitating economic development and the involvement of the population in the country's blood circulation. I think it is very important that, in addition to motorways, we pay due attention to the development of rail transport. In addition to passenger transport, it is also important for freight transport that the railway is renovated and electrified from the Bishop's Lady to the Romanian border. The measure would reduce travelling time and increase the possibility of freight transport. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether the development of motorways M4 and M35 can begin in this government cycle. Will the renovation and electrification of the railway start from the Bishop's Lady to the border? Can these infrastructure developments be completed by the end of the EU budget period in Bihar? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2014-12-08-62	I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2014-12-08-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before answering the questions in your interpellation, I would like to confirm that there has been a real change, a positive change, as we can see a move in Hajdú-Bihar County and the region. Nevertheless, it is important that transport policy adapts to the challenges, because there is no area, no sector that is not affected by the impact of transport policy. It improves and enhances our competitiveness and comfort when railway developments and road developments are implemented that will help us reach somewhere faster, safer and at a higher level. Therefore, it is always a great responsibility to deal with transport policy, and it is always a huge challenge for the government to allocate resources in such a way that it is possible to come wherever it is needed. However, compared to the 2007-13 cycle, we have only half of the resources, and we can manage much less than before. That is why it is of great importance what priority we use, what priority and what order of importance we hold when we formulate and finalise the programmes. In August, the government adopted the national transport infrastructure development strategy and, along its guidelines, recently compiled the programme list and set of programmes it intends to implement. One thing is certain, there will be a great deal of investment in the coming years, and I will be happy to inform the public and the public that serious projects are also being launched in Hajdú-Bihar County. Your question is that four really serious ones can be marked, which exceed the threshold of HUF 23 billion. I would like to begin with what the Member mentioned first, by building the M35 motorway from Debrecen to the new village of Berettyó. This is a very important investment, especially if we add that it will also be built to connect to the international airport. From mid - January onwards, a 300 - meter - long direction train will be launched to transport cargo from ports from the trimodal centre. The development of some 25 kilometres in the following year will hopefully be at the stage of public procurement. From Berettyóújfalu M4 through Nagykerek to the exit point of the border is Hungary's best prepared investment. In this genre, it may be the fastest to start. We believe that by autumn, but not later than next year, by spring 2016, work may begin. Although a small investment will be of great importance in that area, the replacement and electrification of the narrow cross section from the Bishop's Lady to the Biharkereszt. The development of the railway line between Ladány-Debrecen is a huge investment, which will clearly enable trains to travel from Budapest to Debrecen at a speed of 160 km and the transport conditions to substantially improve. I must add that there will also be a safety system in line with the European standard, from Sayol to Debrecen, which will further enhance our comfort and strengthen our security. In any case, I would like to note that the relationship between the Great Plain and Transylvania, which now, through the Mako of M43, will grow at a higher level, will ensure in two and a half, in two places within three years that our old economic area, the Great Plain and Transylvania, which lived and breathed together earlier, will continue to live and breathe together and develop in any event. It is very important that we are making it possible not only to start a stronger growth in the region, but also to fully break down the borders of the legally united Hungarian nation. I am cheering for this, and I also say to the Member, help the population to learn about these developments, which will be useful for everyone, for Hungary, for the people living there, for Hungarian families and for Hungarian businesses. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-64	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-12-08-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply, because he has given all three of the questions asked a positive answer, and I am expressing my hope that these improvements will help create new jobs in the Bihar region and that the Bihar region will finally be out of the 37 most disadvantaged regions. I also hope that these developments will bring the Transylvanian Hungarians closer to those living along the border and across the border, and these developments will contribute to the integration of the Carpathian Basin economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-66	Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Ministers:. What about M6 and M60? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Government XI. On 26 October 2014 the Government decided on national road, rail and water transport, urban and suburban transport developments for the 2014-2020 programming period and their indicative list. In this, the extension of the road between Bóly and Ivándárda was not designed as a freeway, but twice as a single lane, although three lanes wide, but twice as a single lane. According to this, the promises you made in the campaign were not true, they do not extend the main road 67 to the border, there is no bridge to the Drava, and the highway is not being built from Pécs to the border. The explanation of the decision is that the section originally planned for the motorway cannot be built now because it is intended to generate costs from EU funds, and this call for funds cannot be justified by current traffic data during the EU procedure. However, this means that, given that this plan lasts from 2014 to 2020, there will be no change in this by 2020, no motorway will be built and no bridge in Dráván by 2020. In 2010, Viktor Orbán was in Baranya County, and he also said about the bypassing route to the online version of the county paper, when he said about the M60 bypass route that this could be considered a settled case, that it would be included in the next year's budget. The situation is untenable, and you can't do that to a city. This is what Viktor Orbán said in 2010 and that would have meant that in 2011 he should have completed the Pécs bypass, but he is not ready today. It is December 2014, and according to this decision, you are planning to complete this by June 2015. But the city of Pécs receives special attention, as Pécs is the only county seat where the bypass road, the M60 road referred to above, can only be used with a motorway sticker, only as a toll road. Such attention, such a kind, pleasant gift has not been given to any county seat. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development says that the Ministry of National Development does not intend to expand the range of free-of-charge road sections. The Pécs South bypass will be built as a continuation of the M60 paid in the e-toll and e-vignette system. That's what the wallet said. Mr. Secretary. The unusedness of the airport, the delay in road development and the elimination of railway lines with foreign cities clearly puts Baranya County on a slippery path. Your campaign promises are up and running. I ask the Minister whether they intend to continue to build the motorway, when they will finish the southern bypass and plan to complete the motorway before 2020. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-08-68	Secretary of State László Tasó has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-69	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your question, which is important because some news that has appeared in the last few days may interfere with discernment, so I would like to answer your question specifically and accurately. Allow me to start by saying that after 2008, investments and PPP programmes were built in a structure where the maintenance of the M6 motorway and its repayment to the builder on the basis of a concession agreement represent burdens that partially cripple Hungary and, in part, gave us the opportunity to generate further improvements. In fact, the total amount of tolls collected on the M6 motorway is less than HUF 7.5 billion gross, while after the motorway we have to pay more than HUF 60 billion each year. Hungary pays HUF 110 billion each year under the concession agreement of motorways M5 and M6, and I must add that for thirty years. The two investments, the M5 and the M6 investments made in PPP during the Gyurcsány government, cost Hungary HUF 3000 billion. We have to pay more than 100 billion forints a year for 30 years. This means that our total toll revenue of HUF 170 billion is charged at HUF 100 billion. [[15.00]] But in response to your question, I would like to inform you that when the government adopted the national transport infrastructure development concept and strategy in August, it made it clear and also agreed that motorways would be built to the border. He agreed that the county seats, the county-righted cities, would be connected to the expressway network. And you've made it clear that you're going to break up with your previous practice, which I just mentioned to you. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] That is why I would like to inform you that the M6 motorway will be built in this cycle up to the border, and our plans include the construction of the M60. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the motorway M60 is not part of the trans-European transport network, so it can only be implemented from domestic sources. The timing of this depends on the strength of the Hungarian budget. But it's clear the government's intention, it's in his program, he's gonna build the M60. To your question, which has been formulated in relation to the Pécs bypass section, let me answer that the bypassing phase will be handed over in the first half of next year, will exempt Pécs from the current transit traffic that is clearly making his life difficult. But, as you just subpoenaed, the government really does not plan to provide any other sections or any stage free of charge. After all, we believe that in Hungary, under the same conditions of transport, similar charges must be paid to users of the road. So, along with 16 others, the toll payment system will remain uniform at these stages as well. But if I have to answer your question, I ask you to support the government's idea, because it is clear that you will build the M6 motorway to the border, you will build the M60 highway, and you will certainly create the opportunity to avoid Pécs as soon as possible. So if you support him and his faction to build the M6, the M60 trail to the border, then accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-70	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-12-08-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I support what's clear. There was only one clear sentence in this, Mr. Secretary. It's clear what's in the government decision, and it doesn't have an M60 highway. In your reply to the previous interpellation, you said that there is no area or sector to which transport policy has no impact. I think it's the same in Baranya. Even if it is a greater burden on the Hungarian state, if it comes from the past and we look to the future, it is. There's no source. Secretary of State, we are still buying companies in this year's budget for 152 billion, the Kossuth Square around us cost 27 billion, and 44 billion will be available next year for the Olympic Centre here in Budapest. If only a fraction of this could get to Baranya, then this highway could be built, and then we could be connected to Croatia and our lives would be easier. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask for our parliamentary resolution proposal to be supported. (The President rang.) I don't accept the answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-08-72	I need your answer, Congressman. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept this Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 39 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Dóra Dúró and Gergely Kulcsár, the representatives of Jobbik, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Is there any consequence of the lie and the abuse of children's rights? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2014-12-08-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Recently outraged parents told us that in the new school year, the operation of the Hajdú-Bihar County Pedagogical Service was paralyzed. Even if you ask for help, the specialist service is either unavailable or you don't get an appointment. They also said that since September, no professionals have been attending kindergartens or schools. These signals are confirmed by the document that has recently come into our possession. In this, Katalin Pappné Gyulai, head of KLIK County, analyses the indicators of the specialist service for the month of September. I quote: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The institutions operated by KLIK do not receive adequate basic training, the children are mostly unfit, the specialist service is wasteful. In addition, there is an excessive amount of travel expenses, which are not actually provided for; there are no or little other institutions reserved by the CLIK. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These lines suggest that not only the rights of children with a difficult fate are violated, but there are also serious abuses of travel expenses, which is already a criminal category. From the above mentioned material, it turns out that the staff of the specialist service are almost exclusively in the building of the member institutions and do not travel to schools, which would be a fundamental task. Dr. Bartháné Dr. Éva Kmetty is not at the top of her task of providing information to KLIK, as there is a significant difference between the data sent by the specialist service and the data of educational institutions in relation to the work carried out. For example, according to the data of the schools in Debrecen, 160 people are present, and 1683 children, according to the county pedagogical services, have logopedic expertise. The material also shows that the professional service does not do any meaningful work, only half of the ten member institutions have had full contact with educational institutions. Only half of the institutions informed kindergartens and schools about the tasks. Only 40 percent of the member institutions comply with the legislation. The tables also show that, for example, out of the seven functions of the member institution in Hajdúhadház, only educational advice works, and the rest do not. In the Nyíradonyi member institution there was no logistics, no physical education, no educational advice, and no other work was carried out. Accordingly, our questions are as follows. How long will the wallet continue to tolerate the damage to children's rights? Do you plan to investigate this case? With such work, why did the Director-General receive a maximum 80 per cent executive allowance? Do you intend to replace the Director-General? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-74	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Congresswoman for bringing this inquiry and its results here to the House, because many people did not know this, although some of the parts of what you have said here have been rebutted locally. However, let me inform you that neither the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre nor the Gyulai Katalin Pappnéi, Director of the Central District of Hajdú-Bihar County, have reported any malfunctions with regard to the operation of the Hajdú-Bihar County Pedagogical Services. As a result of the legislative changes, the new types of county licence agencies, including the Hajdú-Bihar County Educational Services, were established on 1 September 2013, when they started operating. In the county of Hajdú-Bihar, director general, two different persons led the institution on two consecutive occasions, while in the summer of this year the institution's management tender was completed, and a third expert named Dr. Bartháné Dr. Éva Kmetty was led by the institution. The Director-General's appointment took place at 90 percent of the staff meeting of the Hajdú-Bihar County Pedagogical Service, 132 votes in favour, 12 votes in favour and 1 invalid votes, 60 percent of the operating municipality, 3 yeses and 2 non-votes, and 100 percent of all four voters, so there was great confidence in the appointed authority. The Director-General took office on the first day of September 2014, so the investigation ordered immediately by the school district director and analysed the month of September is more than worrying about both its goals and its results, since for objective reasons we are talking about 30 days due to the lack of time, and Dr. Éva Kmetty's activities have not yet been examined. The findings of the investigation, which you have quoted, are in themselves contradictory and, in part, raises elements that are not the responsibility of the head of the institution. But, of course, based on your signal, we will initiate an investigation into the matter and ensure that the operation of the specialist service continues smoothly and that the rights of all children are respected. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Gergely Kulcsár to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we cannot accept the State Secretary's reply, since he has not answered the questions. He did not mention, Mr Secretary, how he felt about the child's lack of care, about his opinion on the wasteful operation of the specialist service, about the excessive amount of travel expenses, which is set out in this report. The October report is in our hands, and we have similar findings in it. He also did not answer why the Director-General had received a maximum management allowance or talked about the replacement of the Director-General. [[15.10]] He also discreetly silenced - what we of Hajdú-Bihar County and Debrecen know - that she had reached this high position thanks to your fellow State Secretary, Secretary of State, László Tasó, thanks to his lobbying power. Please decide what is more important to you: the greasy salary of your fellow State Secretary or the benefit of the children of Hajdú-Bihar County? We cannot accept that answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 33 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the situation of volunteering in Hungary, are there visible results of the introduction of the community service? It's an address. I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, - because I'm guessing you're the one who's gonna answer. On 24 November, the Ministry of Human Resources launched a campaign to promote voluntary work, which runs until World Volunteer Day on 5 December, more precisely now. The slogan of the campaign: "It's not enough to have a thought, it's also necessary to have the will they've done: take a volunteer job too! With this action, the Ministry aims to draw attention to a wide range of voluntary activities, as well as to organisations and institutions that employ volunteers. Volunteering is often identified by food distribution, although there is much more to it, since everyone will find an activity to serve a good purpose and even enjoy the work in question. The importance of all this has already been recognised by the Fidesz-KDNP government, and in 2011 the Public Education Act included a law on the widespread dissemination and dissemination of community work, making 50 hours of community service a condition for obtaining a diploma and certifying it. Although volunteering is not the same as the community service, because they differ in motivation, we can hope that the community service will eventually achieve the result that society will become more open to volunteering. It is a common element of community service and volunteering that both activities serve a public benefit purpose, the person performing the work and the environment become more valuable, since everyone has values that can strengthen the sense of community commitment and responsibility. With all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State: what feedback has been received from students and teachers on the community service? Can the impact of the new system be felt in the number of volunteers? Finally, does the number of Hungarian volunteers show an improved trend in European comparison? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-80	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, If you have started your question with the voluntary action of the EMMI, let me begin by saying so. Indeed, all EMMI State Secretarys and the Minister have been involved in this action, since we have said that it is not enough merely to encourage people to do volunteer work, but whoever says so and encourages others to do so should be the first and show that he himself is sacrificing his spare time to others and is doing some kind of charitable social activity. And to connect the two things, when I myself went off with a homeless mission, and there I talked to the homeless, or shared warm tea with them in the cold and some food, they joined us not only as volunteers of the Maltese Love Service, but also three young high school girls who were serving community service, who, among other things, during these 50 hours, which the congresswoman mentioned, which they had to do before graduation as volunteer work, they also chose the homeless mission, and they also talked to the people who had no place to lay their heads. Hungary, when it was the President-in-Office of the European Union in the first half of 2011, also announced the year of volunteering, and at European level we encouraged everyone to stand up for volunteering and launched their own campaigns to do so. In some way, this has also resulted in tangible and quantifiable results over the past four years, since the proportion of those involved in voluntary work has increased by 4 percent. Obviously, this means primarily the 30-50-year-old population; in the last 5-10 years, they have had the greatest improvement in the assessment and participation of volunteer work, but a lot of people are positive about it. According to our poll, it is considered a high social prestige work, which was carried out in 2013 on volunteering - this is a scientific study - and people recognise the positive effects of volunteering and consider its social benefits also important, so almost a third of those over 18 have already done some kind of voluntary activity. To strengthen this, Parliament has accepted that as many people as possible should learn to do so before the age of 18; that if this takes place at a skill level, if their approach already includes the fact that it is worth working for others, it is not only a culture of selfishness that can be strengthened, but it is also worth working for others, then, of course, it is for this good purpose. Of course, it is necessary for the state to help both in the infrastructure and in the organisation, so we held workshops, we held ten information days, where thousands of teachers and host organisations took part, the host organisations who received the activities of these young people. It was a positive feedback from both schools and host organisations, since many of the issues that have been raised and are completely life-like help this kind of scientific training. Its binding nature, since most people have raised this concern that, if voluntary work is compulsory, it is taking away its essence or creating natural resistance in many people, and we can answer that on the basis of international models, it is precisely the variety of opportunities offered that removes possible migration from young people due to their compulsory nature and thus easier to participate in these voluntary work. For EMMI, the database of voluntary host organisations set up earlier in the previous four years also helps schools to get children to the place they want to go. Of course, we also appeared on several platforms on the Internet. Since 1 September 2012, we have launched a Facebook page on the Community Service portal, which serves both the purpose of registering to do this by as many people as possible on receiving or sending pages. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] participate in the dissemination of the culture of volunteering. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-82	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-12-08-83	Thank you very much. At the end of the 1990s, several research reports could be read that Hungary is deeply below the European average in terms of volunteering. In this situation, in a country that could claim such great things as St. Elizabeth, who gained world fame through volunteering, giving, helping the poor, this was an untenable situation. It was a good impulse, indeed, the year of volunteering in the European Union, that was when we formulated the obligation of community work in the Public Education Act. I am delighted that the initial limping sounds who may not have understood that doing it for others is good and necessary in a healthy society are now silent. Thanks to all the students and educators who work in the community [[The president's ringing the bell.]] by leading this country into the volunteering we need. Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary, I naturally accept your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 3:21 p.m., and we're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. You, Prime Minister, had a chance. Do you think today's children have one? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. [[15.20]]
u2014-12-08-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, In 1989, I would like to quote the interview to the Prime Minister. I grew up in a tiny, two-bedroom cataract house with no bathroom at all, but it didn't bother me. Of course, I can't explain this to a city person. In the village we lived in the far house, next to us the forest. From extreme poverty, there is no way up. The majority, a large part of the decision-makers, see only the symptoms of poverty, judge on this basis, but do not look at the way there. Czibere Ibolya is a sociologist of poverty. Who is the poor person in Hungary today? These families suffer not only from physical deprivation, but also live in almost complete exclusion, deprived of the rights, health, education, security that appear natural to the majority, as well as fundamentals such as the safety of housing. It's been written a long time: we have to look at the miserable life, not just the empty wallet. Does anyone have a chance to get out of this situation today? I'm sure you don't. As extreme poverty is inherited, successive generations are born into it, and they grow up in it, so they cannot learn any way of helping to recover from it. The government is eliminating aid, and as a result of the transformation of the education and social sphere, the government is directly institutionalising poverty. The number of poor will grow. It's grown by 100,000 in the last year. Now, according to recent research, 42.4 percent of children under the age of seven live in poverty. For this reason, I ask Prime Minister: do you think that a child growing up under the same conditions today has the same opportunities as you did back then? You, if you were a child today [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] study in high school, university and study [[The president's ringing again.]] later by the Soros Foundation in America?
u2014-12-08-86	Thank you, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-08-87	I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-12-08-88	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2014-12-08-89	As for your last question, I'm sure I can answer that. I don't think George Soros will be judging me from now on for any scholarship. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] However, as far as the substance is concerned, let me first of all tell you that the number of poor people in Hungary is not increasing, but decreasing. Secondly, I would like to state as a fact that the number of people living in work is increasing and the number of people living in aid is falling. And since the amount paid for the work is greater than the aid, logically there can be no more than more people working and less people receiving aid than the fact that the poor today have more money than before, in exchange for work. There's a difference of opinion between us, I see. I do not think that there is a difference of opinion between us as to whether the current conditions are acceptable. Because I myself think - although I am not sitting on the left - that as long as there is only one poor man who is poor without his own fault, conditions cannot be accepted. So the correct answer to your question, what can be done to help these people, is to pursue a good government policy. I'm just going to briefly mention some of the things that the government has done to this end. Preschooling is mandatory from the age of three. We didn't order the teacher's raise because of the teachers, although it doesn't bother us that it's gonna be easier for them, it's actually because of the kids. We spend significantly more money on public education next year than we did last year. We will spend 50 billion forints to raise the teachers' wages. The textbook will be free for third grade students next year. Local governments received one billion forints to expand kindergarten places. Four thousand new kindergarten places will be created, and the government will continue its gym building and swimming pool development program in the following year. This is how much Hungary can afford today. That's a lot. Thank you to those working people who, through their taxes, allow us to help the poor. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-90	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2014-12-08-91	You know, Prime Minister, I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked if the kids in the line like you grew up would have the same chance you had back in the day. They're halving the number of high school seats. From 2020, children will be admitted to university by having to take a secondary language exam and a higher level of graduation. Mr. Prime Minister, When you say poverty has fallen, come to Hajdú-Bihar County and tell the children who are on a glass of milk and an apple all day! I told you last week. Believe me, it's really hard for a little kid to go through a day, even a kid under the age of seven, to have to eat the sour apple and drink the milk on it. Because you know what's missing, Prime Minister? The bun, the margarine and the salami. And tell these children's parents that poverty is falling in Hungary, and let us stop listening to what kind of family support systems they are building! [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Listen to it.]] Next year's budget will be reduced by 25 percent [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] social and [[The president's ringing again.]] family allowances.
u2014-12-08-92	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder.
u2014-12-08-93	Once again, if you allow me to feel that there is no difference of opinion between us as to whether we still have work to do to eradicate poverty. The answer is there is. The question is not whether there are still poor, the question is who does what in order not to be. It would be a cheap answer now to list what you have done and to cause a radical increase in poverty in Hungary, despite the fact that you are supposed to be a left-wing party. They did nothing to reduce poverty [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: It's not true!]] Your actions have increased poverty in Hungary [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] , they took pensions, they took salaries, they cut the social costs of the budget, we did the opposite. So if you want to provoke a political debate in this, then for our part, we, the Fidesz and the Christian Democrats, are at your disposal. But more importantly, what's going on with the kids? The thing about children is that if preschool is mandatory from the age of three, it means that all children will eat in Hungary at least three times a day. This will eliminate child poverty in the end. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] because in kindergarten each child gets to eat three times, and the government has made decisions in order [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Is it ringing, Mr. President?]] to reduce the allowance, free of charge [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And eat and grow. I would like to ask you to support this government policy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-94	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question, "Doesn't he feel like a political windcock after demanding the taxation of luxury swimming pools in opposition before Gyurcsány's villa and in Parliament, and then he made a turn in the government of the rich because of his personal involvement? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2014-12-08-95	Dear Minister, Let me make a little bit of a fuss. As long as it counts as resubmitting an excellent proposal from you, which you have made before in the opposition, since you have become a member of the government of the rich, you seem to have forgotten your previous proposal, but not just you, your entire party. After all, you, representing your party, protested in front of Ferenc Gyurcsány's villa in 2005, and proposed taxing luxury swimming pools and luxury pools worth more than HUF 20 million. He also said that it is outrageous that Hungary today has a luxury left-wing Prime Minister who does not regard public burdens as binding on himself. He called it unacceptable that, I quote, as a billionaire, Ferenc Gyurcsány refuses to pay a luxury tax on his luxury swimming pool. You said that quite rightly, and submitted an amendment to the Parliament's website, which is still available today, to tax private luxury swimming pools worth more than HUF 20 million. This is what I have submitted again, but interestingly, since you have such a pool - on which two valuers have said to my question that if we include not only the stones and the swimming pool material, but also the value of the occupied property, then this is more than HUF 20 million - it seems that existence determines consciousness for you. And not only did he not dare to take this initiative in the government of the rich, but he certainly did not support it when, by the way, I think, a bit slylyly, they swept off this proposal with their mamelukes, when I once again submitted a word for word a proposal that could possibly be put in a slightly different way, but that you should not be able to give any criticism about it, and that at last an opposition proposal could be implemented here in Parliament, because in fact, in the system of national cooperation that has been mentioned a lot, you are sweeping down all constructive proposals, which is why I have proposed your proposal exactly. That is why I ask you whether, at least in hindsight, you acknowledge that it was a mistake that you did not support this; at least you, if the representatives of Fidesz have voted this out in the last few weeks. Thank you for your meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó. [[15.30]]
u2014-12-08-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It seems that for you, the development of my financial situation has become fetish. [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] You may not be able to understand what I have said to you and to fellow Members who are interested in you so many times, that the development of my financial situation has been exclusively shaped by legal resources and shaped to this day. As far as the valuers are concerned, honourable Member, two valuers have been to my property without my knowledge. Please give me your names and when this happened, so I can make the appropriate reports. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-98	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. [[Zoltán Lukács: Not many applauded!]] I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-12-08-99	Mr. Secretary, it may be customary in your ministry that if someone dares to make criticism, they will look into it. However, the question here is not how the photos with which they publicly announced - roughly for 200 million forints - the property from which you negotiated, of course, but according to the news, you have spent millions, even tens of millions, to renovate it over a long period of time. It's not a question of how you got this $200 million property. We know that you are supposed to be a minister dependent on your parents, and as an explanation for this, you have been unscrupulous about your previous declarations of assets, like Antal Rogán himself. But that is not the issue, and I am obviously not naive enough to call for a property investigation procedure here at the National Tax and Customs Office; that would be a bit naive. But I would expect you to give a meaningful answer to your 2005 proposal: do you still consider that a tax should be paid for a luxury pool over HUF 20 million, even for you? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-100	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-08-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You're not telling the truth; I've never changed my asset statement, so if you're accusing me, I'm asking you to respect the facts. [[First Novak presents a document.]] As far as my parents are concerned, honourable Member, I still do not see the values that I or our family should be ashamed of the fact that they support me out of the wealth created by my parents. [[Grumble in the benches of Jobbik.]] You have accused me of direct lies here too, honourable Member. The thing is, I don't know what kind of values I should be ashamed of, and I don't even know that my parents make the wrong choices on the basis of values when they spend their wealth of a life's work on their children and grandchildren. [[Foreman Novak: Answer the question!]] [[Foreman Novak: Answer the question!]] I will reassure the honourable Member, and that will be the case in the future. (Előd Novak: Answer the question! ) Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-102	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question, "Only if he is caught?" It's an address. It is for Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai.
u2014-12-08-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your time with the question. In practice, the press reports in the ragweed case have shown in particular that out of HUF 1.1 billion offered by 177 thousand taxpayers in 2009 a very, very small share went to the purposes on which these funds were requested from taxpayers. In the case of HUF 642 million, the Ministry financed the costs of state redundancies with simple redeployment. This leaves 463 million forints, out of which another 20 million forints were still spent to fund redundancies, then this source went to regional organizations. At Komárom-Esztergom County Government Office, an electric bill of 19 thousand forints; hundreds of thousands of lamps, large cleaning of professional cleaning companies; they bought roofings, and they regularly spent large amounts of IT and office technical expenses on all organizations. They bought LCD monitors, all kinds of photocopiers and traditional printers were made from these sources through USB scanners. At the Somogy County Government Office, mobile phones were purchased for nearly 1 million forints - for 78 thousand forints - and on the basis of their other account, they bought several tablets of 130,000, and technically, if we go through different parts of the country, organizations and government offices, we experience this everywhere. In Bács-Kiskun county, they bought leather diplomatic bags, they bought ten pieces, each for 92 thousand forints, and an institution that records public-credit cartographic data, Budapest and its surroundings bought spiraled car maps. If we go through this, we'll find a number of these. THE OTDK conference was financed from this, and in many cases it has been included in it, such as three shoe cleaning machines. My respectful question, Minister, is: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] all of this is possible and how it can happen at your wallet. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas.
u2014-12-08-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think we can see an excellent example of someone being informed exclusively from the press, as you said, and thus reveal to the public and the Parliament all kinds of inaccurate information, as if they were a reflection of reality. Honourable Congressman, I am convinced that one of the most successful programmes of the government of national affairs - modestly, with hard work, but most successfully carried out - was the plan of action for the removal of ragweed, which, by the way, still has responsibilities for us, but which - to say only a few numbers - differs from what you have said; Maybe if you're watching him, while he's standing up, what I'm telling you, I think it's definitely useful. To say some of the figures: between 2011 and 2014, the Hungarian government spent 52 billion forints. Tens of thousands of start workers and community workers worked to make the environment more lively, to make it cleaner. The concentration of ragweed decreased by 20-30 percent per year, and even in some years, the pollen concentration of ragweed decreased by 60 percent. These are measured data, so this programme is progressing effectively. If there were transfers within the budget, the programme itself is not affected, as I believe that HUF 32 billion is a significant item compared to HUF 1 billion 100 million. In fact, there have been transfers before - also in previous cycles. I'm gonna have all the misguided or flawed decisions and wrong purchases investigated. There may have been, but overall - I stress - the work of thousands of people, even tens of thousands, is not affected. Obviously, some numbers can be used for political benefit, but I would like to say that thousands of people came to the offices through the ragweed Internet notification system. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the case of grass infection; associations and civil society organisations have done work in this area and will continue to do so in the future. [[The president's ringing again.]]
u2014-12-08-106	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2014-12-08-107	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. There's only one thing I don't understand about this. If nothing happened and this source was used for purpose, and I am untruely picking up news from the newspaper, what is the other news that they are immediately regrouping another 600 million for these tasks? So it didn't happen, and they just put extra resources in here? 'Cause it looks like somebody got caught taking something of someone else's, and then when they caught him, he'd take it and give it back, like it never happened. And this is the attitude that is obviously of concern, because we do not know what is going on with resources that are not at this level when there is no civil society organisation that would sue the data to see at all what public resources are being spent on. So that's what worries me, and I'm really curious about what you're saying, why you need to regroup, if everything here was morally all right, and the shoe cleaning machines were actually used to depolise the pollen. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-108	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-08-109	Honourable Congressman, You woke up three years later about a program that's been going on for years. So, as I said, the Hungarian State has spent 52 billion HUF for this purpose, and now we are replacing the budget framework that had to be transferred to another purpose in the circumstances of an economic crisis, but it is happening within the state budget. This is another opportunity for civil society organisations, associations, foundations, to prove that they are as committed in this matter as they are to attack the government. I am therefore counting on them to apply for physical work to help this important goal by soiling infected areas, to reduce parlag grass from either cultivated areas or from public areas. By the way, I am counting on everyone's help, as I said before: thousands, tens of thousands of actual jobs in reducing pollen pollution to half. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-110	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Tiba, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-12-08-111	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2014-12-08-112	Yes, the floor is yours. [[15.40]]
u2014-12-08-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In September this year, Hungary's industrial production increased by 7.6 percent to an outstanding extent, as expected, following the moderate performance caused by the temporary factory shutdowns in August. The healthy growth of industry has been demonstrated by a number of factors, which supported growth both in exports and in internal sales, with 12 out of the thirteen sub-sectors of the manufacturing industry increasing production in all regions of the country during the first nine months of the year. In September this year the performance of industrial production increased in a series of 13 months, which contributes not only to the growth of domestic exports, but also to the creation of new jobs and new investments. In the first nine months of the year, production exceeded a year earlier by 8.6 percent, compared to the previous month, industrial output increased by 5.2 percent. In addition to the excellent performance of the automotive industry, the expansion was supported by an increase in the production of food and electronic goods. The production of vehicles again increased by 16%, the production of computer, electronic and optical products by 6.8 percent, and the production of food, drink and tobacco by 4.3 percent. The growth in the production of fabric, clothing, leather and leather products continued, and even the sector achieved the largest increase of 21,4 per cent due to the recovery of exports. It anticipates a sustained increase in industry by 8.8 percent in all new orders in manufacturing sectors compared to the same period of the previous year, with a rise of 8.2 percent in new export orders and 12.9 percent in new domestic orders. All orders were 17.2 percent higher than last September. In view of the above, I ask the Secretary of State how domestic industrial production contributes [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Good performance for economic growth? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-12-08-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government has set itself a strong goal, namely that the proportion of industrial production in Hungary should increase from 23 per cent in GDP to 30 per cent in the total economic product. This would mean that in the European Union the share of industrial production in GDP will be the highest if this government target is achieved. This is fully in line with the European Union's vision, although the same figure represents an increase from 16 per cent to 20 per cent for the EU as a whole by 2020. It is very important for the government to subject its policy and economic policy to this. For this reason, the first thing is how the government can support productive investments, as investments will produce, create jobs and create new and new value. In doing so, the government is determined to use a significant part of EU funding to develop the economy, including to stimulate productive investment. But not only investment is needed to achieve this performance, but also the availability of adequate vocational training and a suitable workforce to achieve this performance. That is why the dual vocational training programme, the transformation of the system, was launched by the government. It is also important to develop research and development and innovation and, of course, to set up industrial centres. The government knows what it wants to achieve, and it will achieve the goal by means of a series of decisive, mutually-based decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman István Tiba. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In recent times, we have heard nothing more than that the government's economic policy is bad, compared to which economic operators have opposed, as they thank you very much, the economy is well, and industrial production in particular, as we have produced one of the most important economic growth in Europe. During the next period - the opinion has not changed, the experts continue to say that there will be an economic downturn. I am very confident that you will be disappointed again and that the economy will continue to maintain this excellent situation. I ask Mr Secretary of State to do everything possible to ensure that EU economic development resources reach Hungarian businesses in the most efficient way possible, thus also ensuring further growth of the economy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-118	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have the right to a rejoinder, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-119	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that Mr President is right about the need to create, strengthen in Hungary, an economic environment, a business culture that meets this objective. There is a need to reduce bureaucracy and to establish a system, legislation and law for tendering and purchasing, whereby all economic operators, small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and larger businesses can find their place in this industrialisation, in the development of the economy. Government policy will fully support this: tax policy, fiscal policy and, of course, EU aid policy ahead will also serve to bring industrial production to 30 percent of the total economic product. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gábor István Harangozó and Zoltán Gőgös, representatives of the MSZP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: do you know, Prime Minister, the findings of the Kehi inquiry ordered by you regarding the pasture application of the Hortobágy National Park? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor.
u2014-12-08-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister, the important pillar of your power is the land application system, i.e. the abuse of land. For a large part of the applications, friends, relatives, and chosen ones are played over by local farmers, who had previously had animals, without land. Mr. Prime Minister, The application system can be abused and abused. 'The prosecutor's office described it in its decision to investigate national park abuse in Bükk. Mr. Prime Minister, For a moment it seemed unpleasant to you, too, and when the abuses at Hortobágy National Park came to light, you ordered a Kehi investigation, and promised that until this Kehi investigation was completed, you would not enter into a contract with anyone. Well, the contract was signed with everyone. Last week, my colleague Zoltán Gőgös and I went to Kehi and looked at this investigation. Imagine that the result of the investigation was that one third, almost one third of the contracts were concluded that they should not have concluded contracts, because in the first place the applicants did not comply with the invitation to tender, or they simply lied when they wrote down the entries in the tender. One quarter of the applications would not have won on the basis of professional points, but the winners were selected only on the basis of subjective points. It also turned out that a number of companies had won, which were created solely to obtain land subsidies for applications. Prime Minister, you ordered the investigation, you promised me you wouldn't sign a contract. Prime Minister, how long are you going to put up with this kind of abuse with your name? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Please respond.
u2014-12-08-122	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2014-12-08-123	Honourable Congressman, Because of the shortness of time, I am not joking about the idea that the soil is present as a means of cementation, but I am linked to the first thought in which you claim to speak on behalf of farmers who have come to land or are honestly seeking land. I have doubts. It's well known that your clients have always been the big owners, they've been given the state land cheaply. We broke this system, and it hurts you. I understand that, because it hurts your clients. On the other hand, we wanted to give as many farmers as possible farming opportunities in state-owned land. That's why we made rules. So far, we disagree. From now on, we may be able to agree that legislation must be followed by everyone, whether or not they are big owners, or whether they are small farmers. [[15.50]] The rules governing the tender must be respected by all who apply, and by those who assess the tenders. Maybe there's no discussion between us. And the right thing is to declare zero tolerance. As to the question of what is the situation with the land lease agreements concluded by the board of Hortobágy National Park, the answer I can give you is that there is a rule on how the body that makes the decision and Kehi who investigates it should draw up a report for the government. After there is a dispute between Kehi and the public body authorised to conclude the contract, that is, between the national park and the Ministry responsible for managing the land, this debate is taking place and the government has not yet received a final report. According to the rules, the closure report shall be presented by 31 January following the reference year. Therefore, on 31 January at the latest, we will have a final report, which will be closed to the internal debate, and I will be happy to inform you of its content. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-124	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2014-12-08-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, But I think you agree that 50 white Hungarian ducks don't need 60 hectares of pasture, but 6 thousand sheep should. That's what the Kehi report says. It also includes taking huge amounts of pasture with poultry and pigs. Almost every candidate who won, or at least, who I think is in the mafia circle we're talking about has provided false livestock data, which Kehi described, so everyone's application should be suspended. They're slowly collecting sheep, Prime Minister, because they're gonna have snow on their backs. It's gonna be three months to clear this up. We speak not for large farms, but for families in Berettyóújfalu, who remained in mass with their animals without land. If you can't solve this, it's gonna be a very hot spring, and I'd like to protect you from that, Prime Minister. [[Moore in the pro-government benches. Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-08-126	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2014-12-08-127	First of all, I thank you for your words of concern and protection for us. I repeat: at this moment there is a debate between the audit body and the audited public body on whether decisions have been taken legally, correctly, carefully and in accordance with the rules. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] That's a debate right now. Both the audited body and the audit body shall have the right to express their views. There's a final report on this that's going to go before the government. I know what the Kehi said to you today. The other party's position can be explained by the Hortobágy economy and can be told by the Minister of Agriculture. However, how we should assess the debate between the two of you, we can say that if the government has discussed it. We're gonna do this. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I agree with you - let me take advantage of this rare opportunity - that not only in the case of land in Hortobágy, but also in the case of land rented to farmers for animal farming purposes, compliance with the conditions for keeping animals must be fully controlled and rigorous in this regard. In this, I think we agree, and thank you very much for your supporting comment on this. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-128	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can we trust in Fidesz's turn again? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2014-12-08-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, In the document entitled "Training in Higher Education," we read the following in the section on financing:. Direct State aid cannot be significantly increased. This is a very serious statement, Prime Minister, and especially in the light of the fact that this determines the future of Hungarian higher education for several decades, exactly 15 years. In 2010, when the government was taken over, the budget for higher education was approximately HUF 180 billion, and in 2015 the planned budget will be HUF 143 billion. So he went through a decrease of nearly HUF 40 billion. In this regard, I should also ask the question that in the EU 2020 strategy, the government, Hungary, has undertaken to contribute 40% of the age group to the acquisition of a higher education degree. This was confirmed at the then ministerial hearing by the Minister of Resources. In an interview with Secretary of State Palkovics, he spoke of 33-35 percent. This is linked to the issue of public education, to be precise: in relation to the transformation of secondary education, the various State Secretarys have said. A radical reduction in the number of high school seats, as indicated by State Secretary Sándor Czomba, would be set at 40 per cent as planned. In 2013-14, the percentage of first-grade students entering high school was 37%. Therefore, the target for higher education and the expected change in secondary education are not related. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister first of all to clarify their goals and explain why they cannot devote more public resources to higher education. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-130	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2014-12-08-131	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd be happy to change it. Firstly, as far as finances are concerned, the use of the word is accurate: direct State aid, which means that there are other State aids. They also request that it be considered. First of all, I would like to point out that there has hardly been a sector that has been as privileged in recent years as higher education in the case of EU funding. 300, but it could easily be 400 billion forints - 300, but it could easily be 400 billion forints! - the amount that we have put into this sector for improvements. This is an achievement that - I think - every citizen in Hungary can be proud of, very few countries have been able to achieve. It's a matter of fact. However, a more important question, which he added to his original question, is how high school and higher education are related then. The government is moving here with a very simple logic: we do not accept what you say, if I understand it correctly, and as if at the beginning Mrs.Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was also progressing in this logic that higher education, high school and vocational training could be contrasted. Therefore, the government only supports vocational training, even for vocational schools - not to mention vocational secondary schools - so that after three years of vocational training and vocational school, it is possible to obtain a two-year degree, and to have a clear career for a young person who wants to graduate, because we are talking about smart and talented young people, who originally started a vocational school. So what we want is for a person who studies a profession as a young person, but thinks that the university and college are also available for his world, yet, after primary school, he can get to higher education at a speed suitable for his ability. That's what the government's working on. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-132	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2014-12-08-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, It is important that it highlighted the difference between direct State aid and other State aid, but it is not included in the material that other State aids would otherwise be increased, thus increasing the amount allocated to higher education. And Parliamentary Secretary Palkovic himself has repeatedly said in the press that stagnation will be increased because there will be fewer students, and therefore the amount per student will be higher. You said otherwise, you said that they would compensate higher education in another way. So there is also a contradiction between the various representatives of the government. Another question, on the subject of graduation; on the part of the Secretary of State, it has also come up that it would be possible to enter higher education without a degree for those who have studied in vocational school and would take part in a special higher education, a novel training course, but you have now again talked about the fact that these students could enter higher education only by graduation, which many have criticized so that they could do so without graduation. The language exam... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Then I don't have time. Excuse me. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-134	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister. [[16.00]]
u2014-12-08-135	I can't compete with the situational advantage of the congresswoman, because she's talking about a document she knows, and I'm talking about something she doesn't. This is because you have asked a question concerning the substance before the Minister for Special Management and State Secretarys and the Government has not yet taken a decision on this matter. This material has not yet been dealt with in its final form by the government and should now be considered as a preparation for decisions before the government. When this debate is over, I will be able to give you an accurate answer in all aspects of the matter. But I'm still here before this. As far as the relationship between vocational school, high school and university or college is concerned, I am, you know, not in my habit, nor is it my duty to refer to the political system before 1990 in a positive way, which I do not intend to do now, but I would just like to indicate that this system has ever existed in Hungary. So we don't have to figure out a whole new thing, because once in Hungary, someone went to a vocational school, worked a few years, graduated with an adult head, and then even went to college and got a degree there. This has already been done in Hungary, only after 90 we have somehow forgotten this, it has slipped apart, it is not organized; under modern conditions, not on a communist basis, on a European civil basis, this system must be reorganized. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-08-136	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:. Will the development of the M85 road to two lanes twice in the Csorna-Sopron border until 2018. It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr László Tasó Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister personally. [[Mátyás Firtl: Yes, I accept.]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl.
u2014-12-08-137	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The city and region of Sopron were pleased to note a few months ago the ministerial announcement that the route between Csorna-Sopron in M85 would be developed twice into a two-track expressway until 2018. The expansion and renovation of the M85 motorway is important not only for the city and region of Sopron, but also for the national interest. One of the drivers of economic growth is the capital, but the other, not less important, is the driving force in cities with county rights. This is why the Sopron and Sopron residents have been confident, on the basis of previous announcements by the government and the Ministry of Industry, that by the end of the cycle, the long-awaited and promised safe road development will be completed by the end of the cycle by the end of the 2018 motorways until the end of the cycle, with the end of the decade of isolation of the region. Nevertheless, information and news that contradicted previous plans revealed that, contrary to the plan, a single-track road would be built twice for savings reasons. This solution does not fully serve any of the objectives of the originally planned development, so the residents and entrepreneurs in the region have rightly formulated the need to implement the Csorna-Sopron-country border road development according to the original ideas. The development of the M85 into a two-track expressway twice is therefore essential in addition to security, as the pace of further development of the region will depend on how economic operators can connect with their investments. Dear Secretary of State, That is why I respectfully ask whether the section between the Csorna-Sopron border of M85 can be implemented until the end of the cycle, i.e. until 2018. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-08-138	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó.
u2014-12-08-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm glad you asked me your question, because I'm able to put some things in place. In recent days, in recent days, information that has characterised, mirrored and returned a professional position could have been avoided, but did not agree at all with the Government's intentions. The government's intentions are clear. In August, when he adopted our national transport strategy, he made it clear that the main objectives included the construction of motorways up to the border, cities with county rights, the connection of county seats to the expressway connection. Accordingly, the section of the M85 Csorna to Sopron will also be built. It is also natural to know that this is a source from a domestic budget. So we do not have the opportunity to use EU funds here, although now that we have made a presentation on the last time, it has also become apparent that a possibility to develop European economic areas, called the Juncker List, will be opened to us at a later stage. Perhaps if we are lucky later, then we can draw funds from this section as well. But most importantly, from the domestic budget, the government clearly intends to implement the two-track construction twice, and that will happen. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-08-140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-12-08-141	Dear Secretary of State, After Trianon, Sopron became a completely isolated sack settlement. The Raggedy Guard fought to protect our borders the way we protected them. After that, for 40 years, Sopron and its surroundings were also isolated. In 1937 there was an article about Sopron's vital connection to the motorway between Sopron and Budapest. This has not been achieved so far. Secretary of State, Sopron - the city of Liszt, Haydn, the city of loyalty, the city of freedom - feels it is absolutely important and necessary that the motorway is actually implemented by 2018, as promised. This is the only option for Sopron to have adequate infrastructure for neighbouring areas. The improvements that you have made in this area are the only ones that can - and the implementation of the motorway - serve this. So I'm asking the government that until 2018 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] implement the motorway construction. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]]
u2014-12-08-142	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-143	Honourable Congressman, I would just like to confirm the government's clear intention that not only the M85, but also the M1, M86 and M15 will be developed. So I think that the county of Győr-Sopron will clearly be one of the counties - together with all the counties, I'll tell you - which will be the winners of the coming years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-08-144	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Does the government plan to achieve the minimum wage? It's an address. It's for the congresswoman.
u2014-12-08-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The wage negotiations are now taking place, but to see that it is not important for the government to increase the wages of Hungarian workers. I would like to remind you that many problems in this country are linked to low wages. The poverty of workers, the fact that few children are born, the problem of emigration, is all due to this. The Possibly Other Politics discussed with the Iron Trade Union last week and, in agreement with them, we now demand that the minimum wage be raised to the minimum level of living. You - I would like to remind you of this - have made a mistake, with a single-key tax, virtually everyone who earns below average in this country has suffered ill. I am talking about two and a half million people, Minister, you have abolished the tax credit, but the system of wage compensation, you know very well, has not worked. The minimum wage in this country is 87 thousand forints, the minimum wage is 66 400 forints. This imbalance cannot survive, I think, and the LMP is committed to bringing this situation to an end. Otherwise, in our electoral programme, we have described a solution that would allow employers to reduce the burden and, at the same time, the net of workers to grow. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you the answer to the simple question: do you agree with what the trade unions demand, do you agree with what may be called for by politics, i.e. that the problem between the minimum wage and the minimum wage is eliminated by imbalances? I'd like a clear answer. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-146	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to respond to two of your suggestions. One applies to the minimum wage, whether it is in the place of the minimum wage or not. As you know, the minimum wage is agreed by employers and workers in this country. If they cannot agree, then the government must intervene and make the necessary decision. As you know, we are in the middle of this period, and employers and workers are negotiating with each other. Obviously, workers would like a higher wage increase for a minimum wage, and employers would like to approach inflation. If they can't agree, then the government will make a decision. I would also like to say that the minimum wage in Hungary has been found to be EUR 344 in a European comparison, much less, say, in the Czech Republic, EUR 310, in the Baltic States, Latvia, Lithuania, much less, but even Romania, the minimum wage in Hungary is two and a half times higher than in neighbouring Romania, even though we are both EU Member States. [[16.10]] As far as the minimum of living is concerned, the minimum of living can be approached step by step. Two years ago, the net minimum wage was 71 percent of the minimum wage, 76 percent this year. So this government approaches these two amounts step by step. Obviously, it's a matter of government consideration as to how fast this rate can be. Of course, we would like this to be faster, but as I said to you, and with what I started, employers and workers agree on this amount. If they can agree, this minimum wage will automatically come closer to the minimum amount of living with government support. I would ask that LMP's ideas be shared primarily with employers and employees. Of course, if you hear that you feel that you will not accept these suggestions there, send them to me, I will forward them to you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] . I can promise you that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-08-148	Thank you, Minister. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2014-12-08-149	Minister, of course, it is also a solution if you are going to push this whole problem away from you, but I would remind you that it was your party and your government that practically destroyed the social dialogue system, the traditional forums for reconciliation of interests. From here on out, you can do this, but quite a lot of voters find that quite strong cynicism. I would like to say one more word about early retirement. I think you, too, remember that you promised to review the system by the end of this year and establish a new system. I demand of you, and the LMP stands to do so and to give the pension back to the people you took it from. I'm talking bus drivers, drivers, miners, people who pay with their health for working. Minister, this is untenable, what you have done, and the fact that everyone took the petition from the relevant trade unions last week, only the Fidesz wasn't there, you didn't respect them. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] trade unions to take over the petition, so the head of the group will now hand it over to you. [[Dr. András Schiffer will hand over those documents to Antal Rogán. A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2014-12-08-150	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-151	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you want something from me, I have to take it seriously, so I'd like to answer your question. The minimum wage increased by 5.4 percent in 2013, by 3.6 percent in 2014. Over two years, the minimum wage increased by 9.2 percent, while inflation increased by 1.7 percent over two years. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] The minimum wage has increased by more than 7 percent in real value. What else do you want? Tell me. What else do you want? I think that this government has made maximum efforts to increase the minimum wage compared to its potential. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In terms of net value, in real terms, it has increased by more than 7 percent, the Hungarian economy has the potential, I think it is not a bad number at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-08-152	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: GDP data beyond expectations. How does the good performance of the Hungarian economy affect the rise in living standards? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2014-12-08-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the change of government in 2010, economic policy has clearly been aimed at increasing employment, improving competitiveness, ensuring balanced economic growth and reducing public debt and keeping it below 3 per cent. Recent KSH data confirm that the direction we have previously set is correct. In the third quarter of this year, the performance of the Hungarian economy increased by 3.2 percent on an annual basis, but there was a half-percent increase compared to the previous quarter. The results reflect the results of all sectors, so we are still the leaders of Europe in terms of GDP growth. It is encouraging that on the production side the performance of agriculture has increased significantly by about 10.8 percent. Industrial production did not fall behind much, with an increase of 5.6 percent, which can clearly be seen as a result of high external demand in the automotive industry and capacity-enhancing investments. It is also very important that the construction sector has regained consciousness over many years, and it has been able to grow by 11,6 percent, mainly due to the fact that Hungary has been able to draw the most effective EU funds from the EU Member States, thanks to which it was a real boom in the construction market. If we look at the use page, we are particularly pleased that the investments showed a 13.2 percent increase. In addition to the above mentioned construction recovery, this is due, inter alia, to the growing activity of the growth credit programme and the corporate sector. However, the expansion of GDP and budgetary stability alone are of no value if we cannot turn this into an increase in living standards, so it is very important that these results are reflected in the rise in the standard of living of Hungarian society. That is why I ask the honourable Minister how he sees the chances of increasing the standard of living of Hungarian citizens in the next period. I look forward to your reply in this respect. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-08-154	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-12-08-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, I also believe that the economic results are not in themselves, but are intended to achieve and achieve the goals that we set at the beginning of our governance. Such a goal is to reduce debt, to create jobs, create more jobs in the country, and to increase income levels. We just had a long debate on the minimum wage. Yes, it is also a very important aspect that these incomes, these wages, have increased and increased in recent months. As far as the economic results you raise are concerned, so do we. The last few months have confirmed the correctness of the steps that we have taken in recent years. To give you an example, Moody is one of the most critical credit rating agencies. Just in recent months, Hungary's debt has been assessed as stable negative, and I think it could have done so with good reason and good foundation, as the Hungarian economy has increased by 3.6 percent in the first 9 months. Our growth in the last quarter was 3.2 percent in the third quarter, and fortunately, this resulted in not only growth in the economy, not only in investment, not only in corporate investment, but also in the amount of money saved by the population, so the level of income has also been able to increase in recent months. We are also pleased to see that we have achieved significant results in employment, as I would remind you that while in 2010 there were 3 million 800 thousand people working in Hungary, this figure now reaches 4.2 million, so there are significantly more people working in Hungary than before. It is not true that public employment is the only basis for this. A significant number of workers can now work in the private economy, in the private sector. I therefore believe that these economic policy results have also brought about a gradual rise in the standard of living. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-08-156	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bánki Erik in return.
u2014-12-08-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your encouraging words. I think that the inflation figures mentioned just now in the context of the minimum wage speak for themselves. Inflation is a tax on the poor. In the event that we look back on this year's inflation figures and last year's inflation figures, we can indeed be proud to say that Hungary can stand in this absolutely top of the 28 Member States of the European Union and even on the podium. In the hope that the increase in the number of jobs will continue, and we are expected to achieve full employment in this cycle, if we can continue to keep up with the level or further reduction of the overhead costs that the government has also worked hard to achieve, all of these will really affect the rise in the standard of living of Hungarian citizens. I think that by 2018, we can safely expect to be top learners of the European Union in terms of the pace of the increase in living standards. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for your support from the government. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-08-158	Thank you, Congressman. Minister Mihály Varga is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-08-159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, That's right. I think in recent months these measures have been able to prove that there is significantly more income than humans. Introduction of a family tax reduction: This year we extended that the person who could not use it from his taxes could also benefit from the contribution, so we could give 270 thousand families an opportunity worth 56 billion HUF. It has also been possible for people, regardless of income conditions, to pay less for public services that have taken a very significant part of their income through the reduction of their overhead. I would also like to remind you that, in addition to all this, inflation has basically disappeared in Hungary, as we have experienced inflation in the range of around zero per cent and sometimes even in the range of minus. That means our money's worth more, by the way. [[16.20]] The next year will continue to raise the wages of teachers, and from July 2015 the wage arrangements for professional and armed workers will be launched. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-160	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who is telling the truth about the NAV case? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2014-12-08-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to read four lines from an interview with the U.S. Attorney General. [[István Szilárd Németh: It's getting better!]] which sounds to me that the 7750 Proclamation is not applied because the person did not exercise proper control over the office which he is managing, but because the person himself has committed an activity, corrupt act [[István Szilárd Németh: Where is the evidence?]] , to which the proclamation applies. So if someone reports that I've been banned under the 7750 Proclamation, then that means admitting that I'm involved in corrupt activity. Ildikó Vida, president of the NAV, did this, Prime Minister. I'd like to read two more quotes; this is from the interview you gave to the manager's Weekly Answer. The question that you know about fraud within the IRS? He replied that we were aware of this, yes. Then, a little further away, the agent said, "We have the evidence that the Hungarian government has received. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Prime Minister, Your many ministers have recently said that they have no knowledge of what these acts are, what these acts of corruption are. These two statements, Prime Minister, are hitting each other. I am glad that I have the opportunity to ask you now who, in simple terms, is lying about this matter. I think you have already looked into this matter, Prime Minister, because its significance is something that absolutely requires it. For this reason, I ask Prime Minister: who dares to report that the Hungarian government and the authorities are unaware of the reasons why the President of the NAV was banned from the United States, and that the acts of corruption that the US agent is talking about are also unknown to the Hungarian government? Because if there isn't, then obviously this case requires a completely different approach. I look forward to the reply of the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-162	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2014-12-08-163	Mr President, My fellow Member! I feel like this case is finally going in the right direction. This is our chance to move the whole case from babbling without evidence to a clear and clean world of law. There's a statement that the U.S. Attorney says there's been a personal corruption involvement. In fact, the agent claims that the president of the NAV committed corruption in person. This statement can be interpreted by the Hungarian legal system and a lawsuit should therefore be brought. That is the expectation of the president of the NAV. If you don't sue the U.S. Attorney General immediately, I will relieve you. But, my honourable fellow Member, if someone is proven to be involved in a corruption crime, that person in Hungary will not be replaced but closed. The Hungarian legal system is also clear here. So the stakes are high. The situation is that if the US Attorney General proves that and the court finds that in an open court procedure, which can be followed by the public, the President of the NAV will go to prison. However, if the court finds that the U.S. attorney has declared false, there will also be consequences. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-164	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in return.
u2014-12-08-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, First of all, you did not answer the question whether you knew or not. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Don't laugh, it's important. Because if you say and are fully aware of your responsibility here in Parliament that you do not have such evidence, then I, as an opposition representative, will also be handcuffing you at the U.S. Attorney General's office. [[Viktor Orbán: Don't do this! Dr. Robert Répássy: Again? Dr. Ferenc Papcsák: Don't do it, because that doorknob is shiny already! There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I promise you that, Prime Minister. The other, Prime Minister - it is possible to make a joke about this, my fellow Members, but I think that this matter has more significance than to make a joke, I can say that - but all experts say it unanimously, Prime Minister, that it is not possible to bring a lawsuit in Hungary, and you know it as well as I and other professionals do. There is only one way to find out that the NAV president is applying for a visa at the U.S. embassy. If you do this, if you oblige us to do so, Prime Minister, the President of the NAV, we will thank you very much for that, because in this process, we will find out what evidence there is and what there is no evidence. I hope you will also oblige the President of the NAV to do so. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-166	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-167	Dear fellow Member, Why can't we sue? What the U.S. Attorney General can do is hide behind his diplomatic immunity. But we're gonna call him out of here so he doesn't do that. If you accused a Hungarian civil servant of personal corruption, you cannot hide behind your personal diplomatic protection. On behalf of all Hungarian citizens, we expect him to stand up, be a man and take what he says. And you're welcome to go doorknob. In the whole case, what you are doing, I must say that it is not worthy of the Hungarian Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The answer was not worthy of you, Prime Minister.]]
u2014-12-08-168	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, It's 16:27. We're moving on to questioning. [[Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber now because of an urgent public task, to do so quietly. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:, When will there be drinking water in Tamási? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, answers the question. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2014-12-08-169	Thank you very much for the floor. The poor condition of the plumbing network and the lack of it in some areas is not a new problem in Tamási. For example, there is not only no, but there has not been a wire in most of the settlements. As a result, not one but two reasons why drinking water with bags should be delivered in several places in Tamási. Fixed water should be highly disinfected because of the increased bacteria, thus temporarily unfit for consumption for infants under one year of age and pregnant mothers. Both they and the people in the outskirts receive baggy water, 3 liters a day each. This can be used to cook mothers and make formula for babies. In the outskirts, there is a lack of drinking water supply for residents, but a further 17 litres per person are transported to the people living in the valleys, Kosbai, the old hen and the Tuskós areas. A few weeks ago, the town's drinking water problem seemed to be resolved, but since then it has been revealed that Tamási's proposal for drinking water investment has not been given a green light. The HUF 1.5 billion tender for development was two rounds. On the first day, which concerned the preparation of the plans, each member of the association had a result. Now the leaders of the affected municipalities are lobbying to get into the programme immediately in the new EU development cycle. Thousands of people are at stake for healthy drinking water. If a quick decision was made and everything went well, it would take months, not years, but only months, to have healthy drinking water for everyone in Tamási in the tap. Now that's the stakes. In view of the fact that investment to improve drinking water quality is about meeting EU standards and Hungarian standards, and the people of Tamási can do so, I ask you, do the municipalities concerned receive help with their plans? To sum up, when will drinking water be in Tamási?
u2014-12-08-170	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.30]]
u2014-12-08-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The government is committed to achieving healthy drinking water in every settlement in the country as soon as possible on this very important issue. You know that there is no so-called imposed derogation obligation for Tamási, he was not included in the category, otherwise in the second half of the 1990s, where this would have been required. At the same time, the water extracted and used from deep holes is prone to so-called secondary contamination, and unfortunately the risk of deterioration of water quality is increased by the inadequate technical condition of space reservoirs, the poor location of the water reservoirs and the resulting congestion. The water supply system has been built over several decades in recent decades, in many places using inadequate materials for cost reduction reasons, which increases the poor technical condition of the whole system. Recurrent pollution indicates countless so-called unblockedness and minor errors on the network. Due to disinfection, the risk of nitrite in water has increased and the public health authority has maintained an ongoing monitoring programme since 2008. Within the environmental and energy efficiency operational programme, which replaced the environmental and energy operational programmes in the 2014-2020 budget period, compliance with the derogation obligations is a priority, but in addition to this programme, we also have the opportunity to finance other programmes. Tamási's investment needs will be taken into account when planning the programme's resources. Thank you for asking.
u2014-12-08-172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Defence:. What steps does Minister intend to take during the Socialist period in relation to the accountability of politicians involved in corruption cases in the Ministry of Defence? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2014-12-08-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, A new procedure has recently been initiated in the case of the General's case. As we know, during the socialists' governance, corruption was a hotbed for the Ministry of Defence, and several high-ranking officers are now being prosecuted. In addition to military officers, influential politicians do not sit on the bench of the defendants, which proves that Fidesz put dust in the eyes of its electorate when he talked about accountability in the campaigns. Since 2010, accountability has been or has not been functioning in line with current political interests. Such cases should be investigated as thoroughly as possible, so that not only those affected will receive exemplary punishment, but the money they steal will also be returned to the state register. Yet, we find that the case had to be reopened, since a first - degree acquittal was also given in view of the obvious facts. Several defendants and witnesses testified that László Fapál was former State Secretary and Ferenc Juhász was also involved in the case. The former third-rate defendant, the latter, has not even been mentioned as a defendant in the case. Where are the controls of this band of robbers? Where are the politicians who put most of the profits in their pockets? Where are the leaders of the then government, prominent individuals who have increased their personal wealth with stolen money and citizens' money? These things could not have happened without the support of leading politicians. Dear Minister, What do you intend to do to ensure that politicians who were previously incarcerating in your ministry can take their place? One cannot help but wonder: is correct accountability not realized because it was not only involved in the case of MSZP politicians or soldiers? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-174	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-08-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, His speech shows that he is aware that I did the Ministry of Defence's due diligence after the 2010 government change, and that I filed a criminal report for more than a hundred crimes, and that I also ensured that in these proceedings the Ministry's civil rights claim, that is to say, a legitimate claim for the recovery of the stolen money, was enforced. Now, the case that you refer to is not a matter of this kind, which is known as the General's trial, because it was brought before Imre Szekeres's parliamentary elections in 2010. So please don't hold anything against the current portfolio management. I am embarrassed because I cannot believe that you are not aware, Mr President, that, in addition to filing a complaint, which is not a pleasure, but a sad duty for a minister, has no influence, nor can it be, and that is well enough not to be a prosecutor for the subsequent prosecution of criminal proceedings. The branches of power are separated from each other, Congressman, so there is no impact on an ongoing prosecution by the Minister who filed the complaint. You have the right to be interested in the state of affairs, as you can arrange an interpellation with the Attorney General, who is in charge of these matters after the complaint has been filed. And if you are aware that you are absolutely wrongful to point such questions to me, because I have no legal authority to influence the procedure, then the situation is even worse, because you are demagogically trying to frame the current government for the crimes of the MSZP government. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What I would particularly like to reject in your question was that there were more than just MSZP soldiers in this case. There are no MSZP and Fidesz soldiers! On behalf of the members of the Hungarian Defence Forces, I reject this statement! Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-176	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Why is the government fleeing the debate and dialogue on the nuclear power plant? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2014-12-08-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You would like to push through the case of the nuclear cemetery planned in Boda, Baranya County, quietly and quickly. This reservoir is intended for the permanent installation of highly radioactive spent fuel. So a few kilometres from the city of Pécs is planned to place nuclear waste that will radiate for hundreds of thousands of years. Geological research has started in the region, but locals do not know what risks they might expect from the planned facility. Under the current Fidesz bill before Parliament, the so-called impact area of this container would be defined at 100 metres. In other words, only those living within this circle can be involved as a client in the planning and authorisation procedure. In order to mention only one counterexample, any Hungarian municipality may be considered a client in relation to the mohi power plant in Slovakia, Tatabánya has already applied as a client to the authorisation procedure of the Slovak power plant. According to you, the one who happens to live in Pécs is no longer the case of a nuclear cemetery a few kilometers away. My questions are as follows. One is how Boda came up as a possible location. The second is when social consultation begins with the population of Baranya County and the population of Pécs, because it is obvious that their lives are affected by this nuclear cemetery. My third question is how can you think that the impact area of high-activity nuclear waste would be a total of 100 metres, and does not belong, among other things, to ten thousand people whose lives could be fundamentally altered by a possible malfunction. And why would they even want to make an investment that is fundamentally contrary to the agreed development concept of Pécs? I look forward to your reply to all my questions. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-12-08-178	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradski.
u2014-12-08-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, First of all, not in silence and not fast. That's a clever answer to your question. The other is that it raised the question of closing the fuel cycle, which has two methods worldwide. One is the recycling or direct final disposal of spent fuels. The choice of solution is the result of a strategic decision on spent fuel in all countries. Hungary has not yet made this decision, this decision has not yet been taken. In our country, we must solve the problems of the treatment of high-activity radioactive waste of institutional and nuclear power plant origin on our own. In 1993 the national project was launched, which was extended by examining the Boda clay stone formation. I said 1993. At the end of 98, a final report was drawn up that there were no circumstances under which the Boda formation would be unsuitable for the final disposal of high-activity waste. In 2003, the research programme for the disposal of waste was re-launched in West Mecs to select the location of a possible geological laboratory. So it's just the preparation, the selection of the geologic laboratory. [[16.40]] Research already started in 2014 aims to designate the location of the geologic laboratory by 2030, which can test the suitability of the area under field conditions, the morphological shape concerned. We are currently investigating the selection of a possible location for the research laboratory, as I mentioned, and therefore T/2250. The legislative proposal does not include the selection of this potential area. And, by the way, as of 1990, the inhabitants of the region have been informed and can receive any information from the relevant professional organisations. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Pál Völner, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:, How does the government intend to contribute to the modernisation of domestic rail transport? It's an address. Mr Pál Völner has the floor.
u2014-12-08-181	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, the government started to restore the authority of domestic rail transport. It has done this by realising that it is not possible to restore the country to a growth path without competitive rail transport. The results are positive as the previously drastically decreasing rail passenger traffic continues to increase after 2010. That is why I was very pleased to hear this autumn about further plans and steps on rail development. From 16 October, four new motor trains were put on the market in Budapest's agglomeration transport, followed by three more within weeks. The enlargement continues. By the end of 2015, nearly 50 motor trains will be available. The planned vehicle types have already been included in the domestic stock and proved their effectiveness, as passenger traffic has increased by up to 12 percent on the lines concerned, not to mention saving electricity worth HUF 7 billion. Soon-to-be trains will make transport easier for the whole country. After Budapest and its surroundings as well as the areas of Sopron, Szombathely, Szentgotthárd and Győr-Sopron, the trains now arriving on the main lines of Debrecen, Nyíregyháza, Füzesabony, Miskolc, Szentes, Kunszentmiklós, Lajosmizse. A few weeks ago, the MÁV's self-developed IC cars were put on the market; this should be highlighted separately, as the Hungarian engineering and engineering work is its own success. Recently, the government decided to purchase another 21 electric trains, which could be deployed at an accelerated pace next year and by 2017 at the latest. Dear Secretary of State, This year, therefore, more than 70 modern trains have been launched, a milestone in the history of the Hungarian railway. In the light of the progress made so far and the trend that has improved significantly in rail transport, I think it is important to further develop the rail sector, so I ask Mr State Secretary how the government intends to contribute to the modernisation of domestic rail transport. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-12-08-182	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó. [[In the notary seat, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi.]]
u2014-12-08-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government adopted the National Transport Infrastructure Development Strategy in August, according to which it also defined directions for rail development. I would like to summarize in five points what these directions are. 1. As a matter of priority, it has identified the completion of the development of the trans-European transport networks, which must in any case be continued. In point 2, it was specified that cost-effective congestion and speed limits should continue to be eliminated and extended to much more stages and longer stages. In point 3, the government defined that the development of the lines of the metropolitan and metropolitan transport, which represent a major part of traffic, should be continuous, should continue to grow and increase the length of this section and of the lines mentioned above. In point 4, it identified additional line currents, which, according to already announced, will be possible in many places over the next six narrow seven years.5. In this regard, the EESC has set out that projects to improve road safety and the quality of travel should continue. These include, for example, the construction of road rail crossings from a safety point of view, the construction of the passenger information system and the introduction of a ticket system. In the period 2014-20, Hungary is typically able to generate improvements from the integrated transport development operational programme and European network development sources, the CEF, as many call it. The total amount of the operational programme will be HUF 1215 billion to be spent on rail, and another HUF 392 billion of EU funding will come from this network financing facility. The EU budget will indeed win the rail industry, and I hope that everyone will feel it at the end of the cycle. Hopefully, rail development will not miss the development of vehicles and rolling stock. Thank you for asking.
u2014-12-08-184	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Kónya, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: what did President Ilham Aliev say in Hungary? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will answer the question. Congressman Péter Kónya has the floor.
u2014-12-08-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In August 2012, representatives of the Hungarian Government informed the public that an agreement had been reached between Hungary and Azerbaijan on the basis of which Ramil Safarov, who had been convicted of murder for a life sentence in Hungary for a base crime, would be released to Azerbaijan by serving the remaining prison sentence in Azerbaijan. Compared to this, when Ramil Safarov arrived home in Azerbaijan, he did not spend any more time in prison, but was received with honor as a hero in Azerbaijan and was immediately pardoned by President Aliyev. Under diplomatic custom, diplomatic relations would have been terminated in such a case if one-sidedly such an agreement had been broken by a country. My question, or, obviously, that there was no such agreement, and then the representatives of the government lied to the Hungarian public, or, if they did, I would like to know what Aliyev said to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán about the visit of President Azerbajjani in Hungary. After all, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked President Aliyev why he was released against the previous agreement, breaking the agreement. I'd like your answer to that, please. I do not know if the Secretary of State can answer this question, because it was obviously in a private conversation, but I hope that he will respond in substance, Mr Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2014-12-08-186	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó, who will answer on behalf of the Minister. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-08-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman, I can answer, but my answer will be brief: this matter was not mentioned between Presidents Ilham Aliyev and Viktor Orbán during the meeting. Thank you. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why not?]]
u2014-12-08-188	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: å Are they willing to recognize the state of the church wedding? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister László Trócsányi, Minister for Justice, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Répássy Róbert will answer the question. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2014-12-08-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Although the real values of family support will unfortunately fall again next year, since they are not even willing to follow inflation that is guaranteed in the case of pensions, the fact is that marriages are promoted with a kind of wedding gift. Next year, the newlyweds, or even the couple, will receive a monthly tax relief of HUF 5,000 for two years. This, let's face it, is a nice and useful thing, because even under your government, fewer and fewer people dare to marry, perhaps because they do not have a certain vision. Unfortunately, in 2012, children born out of wedlock were already in the majority, and this situation is not ideal for them. Other reasons could be given for reducing at least the reduction in the number of marriages, but I would prefer to talk about an facilitation. It is both circumstantial and unworthy that those who wish to have a church wedding have to say the happy yes twice. If a graduation certificate can be issued by a church high school, why not write a certificate to the civil servants that the marriage has taken place? There are well-functioning examples in Finland, Britain, Spain, Australia, Canada, Italy and even Slovakia. Fidesz raised the possibility of introducing this already in 2001, but unfortunately this remains a promise. In fact, when I presented this proposal with my dearest colleague, Dóra Dúró, in the previous term, you voted against it. But when I urged this a few weeks ago, Secretary Bence Retvári nodded violently. [[16.50]] They may realize that there is little to argue, for example, that the system of registration would continue to be uniform. Dear Secretary of State, Are they therefore willing to recognize the state of the church wedding? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2014-12-08-191	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, On 5 October 2010, the Joint Committee, composed of representatives of the Holy See and the Hungarian State, met with Cardinal Péter Erdő, who said that it is important to state that the state does not recognize church marriage, which is the position of the Hungarian Catholic bishops for 20 years. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] He explained that although he was elsewhere and there is an example, Hungary... I quote, I'm sorry, but I'm telling the interrogators that I'm quoting the Cardinal. He explained that, although it was elsewhere and there is an example, Hungary belongs to the German type of law in this respect, where there has been a parallel marriage system for 115 years, the church ignores civil marriage and the state ignores the church, said Cardinal Péter Erdő. According to the Cardinal, where people are accustomed to this marriage order, the change would be life-threatening, as the institution of marriage within the European Union would be again under attack. We cannot guarantee that, in 20 years' time, the definition of marriage will continue to be the same at EU level, and once we are included in something that is unacceptable to us, we, as organs of marriage before the state, may be subject to sanctions because we discriminate against certain types of relationships that we do not consider marriage, but secular regulations may consider it so. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Referring to previous conflicts between Catholics and Protestants, Péter Erdő added that we are glad that this has been at peace for a hundred years, and we ask that we do not disturb it if possible. On behalf of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén took note of the Catholic Church's position on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-08-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. Will the Hungarian government ever stop fooling, exploiting and disdaining the cavalry? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2014-12-08-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Since 2010, you have spent two thirds of your term. There are a lot of failures that mark this period, but I would like to highlight one of them now, and this is the continuous scam of the cavalry society - and they look at them as a kind of voting machine, and I would like to draw attention to that - although, by the way, the riders, after socialist governments, thought that something might finally change. You promised them everything, and, of course, as usual, after the elections, you forgot about it quickly. If we do not think of anything else, then we need to highlight the large, complex investments promised to the riders and, in some cases, the groundbreaking has already taken place, but at the time of the budget debate, we were shocked to see that these lines have been drawn down and that these investments will not be made. But anyway, it doesn't matter that we're talking about farming, education, tourism, traditionalism, racing, the riders don't understand why earlier promises couldn't be made. The whole story started with you asking the profession to put a program on the table. The profession has done so, the Treasurem National Horse Programme has come before you, a realistic strategy in all areas, the most comprehensive material I have ever read on this subject. In addition, if I remember correctly, at the beginning of 2012, he was nodded at government level, but unfortunately, the practical steps have not been taken since then. These sectors, the horse registration, are catastrophic, the civilians working in horse therapy complain that they are struggling for their existence, because they are not receiving any support from you, while the work with the horse has now proved factually that they have a positive impact on their daily lives. Horse tourism is also dying, even though our country has excellent talents. To sum up, therefore, there is only a narrow sphere of interest available to the resources here. Please answer these points, and my most important question is when you will implement what is described in the Treasurem National Horse Programme. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2014-12-08-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Following the adoption of Government Resolution 1061/2012 on the tasks set out in the Kincsem National Horse Programme and on the measures necessary for the implementation of the priority tasks, the Government adopted and implemented a number of measures relating to the Horse Sector, which are all in the interests of the cavalry. These include: the renovation and development of the National Lovarda for HUF 600 million in 2014, HUF 1.4 billion for the 2015 budget; the establishment of the Riding Centre of the State Ménesgazdaság Szilvásvárad, the reconstruction of the Riding Stadium in 2013, HUF 181 million in 2014, HUF 1.47 billion in 2014 and HUF 830 million in 2015; several international horse events: the 2014 national cutting, some World Driving Championships, the World Rider Cup provided some HUF 155 million for the operation; as of January 1, 2014, all state studs are in the management and supervision of the agricultural portfolio, which creates a unified management of horse breeding in the long term; we have solved the issue of free field use; the development of the horse information system has started. Most of these main tasks, which have been started, will continue to be implemented in the next year, to which the central budget will continue to provide significant resources. Honourable Congressman, As opposed to your claim, the government has a high priority in the development of the domestic horse industry, so I must strongly reject what is suggested in its question. No one's fooling the cavalry, no one's using it, no one's looking down on it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 58 minutes. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the amendment of individual laws to transform the rules for the declaration of assets of politicians exercising public authority and public money farmers, T/1559. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This bill was drawn up for the first time when the Simon case exploded, and we indicated during the examination of the Committee on immunity that it was unworthy of Hungarian democracy, the Hungarian Parliament, that from time to time different politicians, party leaders, government members were revealed to have assets that were unproven; I repeat, in connection with the Simon case. And then one of the leading Fidesz politicians, where the future Fidesz foreign minister's fortune turned out to be strange, and then it turns out that there's a leading Fidesz politician who goes to New Zealand to listen to Rolling Stones one week and then spends 2 million forints loosely at an auction next weekend. I believe that matters not related to specific persons should be examined, that clear water should be put in the glass and that it should be made clear where people living out of public money who come into public trust have their wealth for various luxury expenses. What the LMP proposes is that there should be a systematic and mandatory investigation of the wealth of all politicians. We would also like to extend this circle to senior officials of public-owned companies and companies. So it is not necessary to have a campaign, depending on whether there is an election campaign, depending on whether someone wants to divert attention from something else, to have a luxury swimming pool on the columns of one or another tabloid, to take a picture of someone, say, in New Zealand or Dubai, but to be completely clear and unmistakable to the Hungarian people, that the person who has spent all his active life on taxpayers' money, yet where he was able to hoard so much wealth that he can afford the luxury expenses. Enough of the nanny stories and the family bonding and the fact that someone accidentally grew a huge fork out of the ground. There is a need for clean water, and the State Audit Office - not the tax authority, the State Audit Office - regularly and repeatedly examine for all politicians how it could afford the luxury expenses. [[17.00]] Insufficient strength alone is the institution of the declaration of assets. In addition to the declaration of assets, it is also necessary to examine whether the legal income was otherwise covered by luxury expenditure. We are facing a situation where people in Hungary have become a fundamental experience over the last 25 years, that very often young people, very often people who have lived on public money throughout their active lives, suddenly buying companies, suddenly throwing money away at auctions, suddenly growing luxury forks out of the ground. And people who, by the way, work hard to make a living for a living, find it rather difficult to bear the fact that when they're 30 or 40 years old, some active years behind them, somehow they can marvel at buying luxury apartments, driving around in luxury cars, and otherwise annoying the well-deserved by showing luxury articles on tabloids. That's enough! But we remember well that once upon a time, you thought the same way. At a time when there was an economic minister, János Kóka - you know, the János Kóka, who had a service passport in his pocket for accounting, Peter Szijjártó a few months ago - when this János Kóka boasted with his helicopter and his luxurious watch, Fidesz was horribly outraged. Dear fellow Members, we do not need a double standard. Let us measure with the same standards and, as it is outrageous to urinate on one side, it is equally outrageous to rule on the part of a governing party whose prince declared modesty and humility in 2010. I would like to ask you - obviously Imre Vas will answer, I can see that you are looking at me with a árgus eye - how to match modestness and humility with the suddenly drawn 70 million forints, how to match modesty and humility with a few million forints spent at the auction one weekend. I look forward to your reply, and I look forward to your support for the fact that the Fidesz fraction will otherwise provide a green light for regular, recurring and mandatory assetisation investigations against politicians. People need to be clear that the people they vote for will not steal their eyes out. That's what we need warranty solutions for. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and in a two-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. First of all, I would like to give the floor... - but I do not see Mr Sándor Szabó, Member of the MSZP Group in the Chamber, who has made a written statement of his intention to speak, and his card is placed in the machine. Since the congressman is not in the room, I cannot speak to him. Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-12-08-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to start by saying that we support the inclusion of the series of subjects. We can do this with a clear conscience, because only this year we have tabled two legislative amendments to this House, namely, first, only to the committees, right, one on 6 May and one on 31 October, on the compulsory acquisition of wealth by Members of Parliament, members of the government and State Secretarys. Of course, both of our proposals were voted out by the committees and were not allowed to be included in the series of subjects. We also support the inclusion in the series because the last five years have shown that there are two of the parties present in this House, for whom it is important in action to change this situation, this is LMP and Jobbik. After all, you are always expressing in words, as many of the members of the government expressed in the previous week how much this system should be changed, but when it could be changed, and here is the opportunity for you to vote on the series of articles, of course you will not deal with it. I would add that we would change this proposal a little bit, but we would like at least to be able to debate it and submit legislative proposals to it. We want more stringent standards. We would also like the declaration of property of one household to be made public, so it is the property declaration of the spouses and children, so that there is an increase in wealth test at the beginning of the cycle and at the end of the cycle. That the SAO brain is doing this for the NAV, again I'm just saying it's a matter of detail. The third very important point that we would tighten up is that these wealth-growth investigations cover everyone who has been a Member of Parliament since 1990, has been a member of the government, or has been a political public secretary of state of different order and rank. We take seriously the reason the voters sent us here, and we clearly want this country to be accounted for, finally to be a real system change. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Clear, transparent relations with Members of Parliament and members of their families. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, He applied for a two-minute speech - but the time frame is two minutes long anyway - and I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group.
u2014-12-08-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party supports this series of articles. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet, the LMP Group, has made a statement.
u2014-12-08-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that the majority of Fidesz-KDNP have missed the steps more and more recently. This was the Internet tax when they did not recognize what annoyed people, what annoyed them, and what they refused. And we also predict that this will be the way to move the Prime Minister's Office to Castle. And that's what a rejected wealth tax is. You obviously haven't been around people lately, you don't see what people need, and you don't see how people feel. You are also embarrassing opposition politicians among the people. They're embarrassing you because you don't feel like people are sick of the elite political layer getting rich. We get signals, and we get texts and e-mails that they've lost faith in politicians, because all they see is that when a politician becomes a politician, he gets rich in a very short time, he wants everything. We ask you very nicely to think about it, so that we do not get to the point where people will force you, just like the Internet tax, that we do need to support the wealth tax. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-08-204	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-08-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Here we will discuss with two a series of similar legislative proposals. At the meeting of the Justice Committee, my colleague Papcsák said that here... [[György Szilágyi: Congressman, we will not negotiate because there is no number! The president's ringing the bell.]] I have listened to you, my fellow Member.
u2014-12-08-206	Congressman! The dialogue should be somewhere else. Please consider this. Congressman Vas Imre has the floor.
u2014-12-08-207	We have also said in the Judicial Committee that, in fact, there is a need to negotiate between parties on this subject, already with regard to the control of declarations of assets and declarations of assets, because, by the way, LMP and Jobbik's bill do not overlap, but only in a very small part. In my view, too, there is likely to be a five-party proposal on this subject. I would ask my fellow Members to take part in this. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to László Varju, an independent congressman. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-209	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, If we could start from our fellow Member Vas Imre's statement and take it seriously that, in the next period, such an initiative is actually being taken, we could give up the initiative to support this proposal. But I think this is a real opportunity. Our fellow Member has a proposal that clearly concerns the rules on the declaration of assets, and you have an excellent opportunity to make use of it, and that is the framework for the debate on this proposal. [[17.10]] Just because in recent months, many initiatives have been rejected by the immunity committee, which, I think, were obvious cases where there were clearly wrong, faulty, deliberate, or deliberate declarations. It is therefore quite clear: the initiative must be supported, even by the Fidesz fraction. It's far better for them than drug testing to support a rethink of wealth studies. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for further speeches, I would like to give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2014-12-08-211	Thank you very much. I would first like to express my concern at the fact that you are indeed able to vacate Parliamentarianism completely. We are discussing this here, and then there will be a vote separate from that tomorrow. This is now the case on a regular basis with the series of proposals for inclusion. My fellow Member Imre Vas can always surprise me and always do historical things. For the first time in the last four years, it has been said in relation to a substantive bill that Fidesz is initiating a five-party consultation. I hope this isn't part of Imre Vas's writing job, but it's been discussed with his bosses. Of course we'll meet him. But to quote the classics, my fellow Member Vas, the true ground for the five-party negotiation is here in this horseshoe. If you'd like to have a five-party meeting, at least allow the subject series. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] Because in the case of a series of subjects, what my fellow Member Szilágyi said was that the amendments could then be made. For example, LMP is open to finding a constitutional solution to account for the entire political elite of the last 20-25 years. And I can assure you that we have submitted this proposal for the second time, and, like the sabotaged Act of Publicity, our proposal on compulsory propertyisation of politicians will continue to be put forward in this cycle. I would also like to say that Mr Papcsák tried to back out of the proposal in the Committee on Justice by reducing the confidence of politicians in the investigation of the wealth of politicians. If something reduces confidence in politicians, it's luxury swimming pools, luxury watches and luxury apartments. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is, the declaration of assets doesn't solve anything unless we see the source of the great wealth. I have another suggestion: perhaps if this bill is included in a series of articles, it can be extended to corporate interests if someone has a dividend for the remuneration of their representatives. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] at least a quarter of it will be pulled out, and the background of it will also be examined. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the publicity of economic interest and on the anti-corruption amendment of certain laws T/1793. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in a five-minute timeframe.
u2014-12-08-213	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, When our anti-corruption package was discussed by the Justice Committee, our fellow Member Gyula Budai - whom I regret very much that he is not in the Chamber - the main opposition to the series of articles was that I am bombing the House every Monday with these proposals. Well, that was a very thoughtful compliment on the part of Congressman Budai, so I am trying to live up to that. The fact is, Honourable Parliament, that to stand up to the fact that the rich, the rich, the few who possess politics - because that's what political corruption is about, the institutionalization of corruption that you are doing, that's what it's all about - it's only possible if there are clear institutions that protect people from being robbed of politics and public affairs by the rich few. This package of laws contains the following essential elements. One is to have full publicity of economic interest. So, provided, but not allowed, for example, that tobacco companies want to apply favourable regulations to them, say, in the party group - I don't think such a thing happens, but let's assume that it does - then all the contacts that we say a Fidesz representative or a member of the government has with the representatives of an unnamed tobacco company should be a reminder of all such contacts, and this reminder should be public interest data. In Hungarian: all economic interests should be perfectly transparent, voters can keep track of whose interests a regulation is born. We also demand that they not only talk about transparency in general, but also, in the case of all applications for public benefit - for example, concession rights, trade concessions, for example, when public land lease applications are announced, when public or EU subsidies are announced, when public procurement is carried out, contracts concluded following tenders should be subject to the condition of validity that all competitive offers can be compared to everyone immediately after the deadline. That is why it was very false, which the Secretary of State for Agriculture replied here half an hour ago to opposition representatives about the need - I think my colleague Sallai - for losing applications. Losing proposals are not only needed by losers, but also by disadvantaged entrepreneurs. Everyone who pays taxes and who doesn't want to be robbed of the common good needs to be transparent, who doesn't want the power to steal his eyes. We therefore demand that from now on concession contracts, contracts concluded on the basis of a public tender, grant contracts be subject to the condition of validity that all competing tenders be comparable and accessible after the time limits have expired. It's not enough to remove the offshore knights from the immediate state aid area. On the one hand, complete procurement sub-contracting nets must be transparent and, on the other hand, offshore knights must also be removed from the area of EU money. I go on: it must be prohibited to conclude a contract with offshore knights, for example, with the Hungarian National Bank. It must be prohibited for offshore knights, let's say, to assume a position of government commissioner, as we see now. We say that, as long as Hungary is one of the main sources of dependence in the horrific outflow of income to offshore tomatoes, one of the most important national interests is that the offshore knights are expelled from public wealth and public money. No state, municipality, state or municipal company can conclude contracts with an economic company whose ownership structure is not transparent or its ownership structure leads to countries where we know exactly that investors usually register for tax relief purposes. Finally, this anti-corruption package contains our previous proposal to ban government propaganda clearly in the Public Finance Act. This year alone, you have wasted 3 billion forints on government propaganda to spread your lies on billboards. This is, on the one hand, a robbery for taxpayers; two, an easy source of money for buddy advertising companies, marketing companies. Not least, government propaganda is a covert party financing which must be banned. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of Members can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, the MSZP Group, who has expressed his wish to speak in writing.
u2014-12-08-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 December 2003, the United Nations established a Convention against Corruption. This convention was also published by Hungary in 2005 by law. Allow me to quote briefly from the Convention:. States Parties shall develop, implement and implement an effective, coordinated anti-corruption policy in accordance with the principles of their respective legal systems, which facilitates the participation of society and reflects the principles of good management of the rule of law, public affairs and public property, honesty, transparency and accountability. States Parties shall endeavour to develop effective practices and support the prevention of corruption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.20]] Well, if we are to use the normative regulatory instruments to combat corruption, the regulatory objective is to focus on: transparency, increasing the public, creating effective forms of control, regulating conflicts of interest, including the obligation to make declarations of assets. Therefore, it is up to the Honourable Parliament to decide whether it wishes to negotiate, to discuss the means of publicising and the procedures for promoting economic interest. Perhaps it has never been as topical as it is today to find instruments preventing or at least hindering the merger of economic interests and politics, and perhaps the opinion of the public was not so fundamental when Parliament, by adopting effective instruments, wants to achieve the prevention of corruption. This need must be met as soon as possible. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the inclusion of the legislative proposal before us and urges the adoption of a comprehensive anti-corruption regulation. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite obvious that there is a moral crisis in Hungary right now against politicians, and that corruption is currently a plague of equality with the political elite in Hungary, and for this total social rejection and for this to be enjoyed by politicians, investments in the last 25 years and investments across governments, and for these to show the signs of anomaly. But we could even give an example of the current investments, such as the M4 motorway. Thus, suspicious cases are common, which is why Jobbik has long been the only and perhaps the only committed party, in addition to LMP, in the previous cycle and in the current cycle, who has been interested in detecting, detecting and eliminating corruption, or creating a transparent state, and has so far supported it. On the other hand, we see that the government and the governing parties, whose representatives are sitting in a row in the opposite direction, are interested in the opaque state, and, for example, by law, they are open to judge their own companies' applications themselves, and there should not be any grounds for refusal. For this reason, Jobbik has proposed, and in order to eliminate these investments over the past 25 years and the anomaly signs experienced, that we set up a separate committee of inquiry to investigate, investigate and punish corruption in the last 25 years and, by the way, punish the perpetrators. Thus, the proposal for inclusion in the series of subjects can be supported, because it is a complete response to the problem, both for the Parliament and for national authorities, national bodies and representatives of local governments, including an offshore clause, in which we can finally name the countries that we might consider suspicious, and a good starting point for us to start in this debate, the regulation is effective and the state is able to act well against corruption. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say a few words on this subject in relation to the publicity of EU funds and grant contracts. Here, too, in the debate on the 2015 budget, it has been said many times that EU funds are important and that EU funds will arrive in the next seven years with at least HUF 12 000 billion. Over the last seven years, the country has spent a huge amount of money and used me for EU funding. We also know that these resources are becoming more and more valued, because now the government is only giving its own share of EU funding, and these are basically the sources of investment in Hungary. So it doesn't matter how we use it and how transparent these proposals are. I would like to tell you that speaking with an entrepreneur, but other entrepreneurs have also said that in Hungary the first privatisation took place in the 1990s, and European Union funds have also allowed for a second privatisation in Hungary. Let us think about the content of this; it is in itself that European Union funds are very often not transparent and are not coming to those who absolutely deserve these funds. We believe that it is in your interest and in your protection that we use EU funds in such a way that these proposals will be public, accessible to all, and that people can really judge based on their content. Please support the bill submitted by LMP.
u2014-12-08-220	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, László Varju, an independent congressman, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-221	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to take out the only element of this proposal which lists the countries to which no commitment or cooperation should be made in relation to offshore suspicious activity. A few days or weeks ago, we were discussing this right here in this House with Mr Antal Rogán, the leader of the Group, where he was defending how well the agreement with the company in the Cayman Islands was and how much advantage it would bring to the country. The Economic Commission of the Hungarian Parliament, with a unanimous majority decision, decides that it is possible to cooperate with a clearly offshore-suspecting company and to obtain public revenue, which, by the way, is obviously, here in the debate, it has turned out that hundreds of thousands of euros will remain in the margins of those who are otherwise engaged in this activity. I think it is quite clear that such an initiative is indeed to be supported by this behaviour, and I therefore strongly recommend that it be put on the agenda. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-222	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr András Schiffer if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give you the floor, Congressman, in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-12-08-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I can only hope that silence is consent from the Fidesz-KDNP, and perhaps even a manifestation of shame. Thank you very much for the support of my fellow Members. I would like to say to Mr Luke that, of course - not that it depends on the five MEPs of the LMP - the LMP supports the better committee initiative to look at the various state-owned puppies of the last 25 years, and to pour clean water in this respect as well. I would like to continue what our fellow Member Varju has just started here. I am not entirely sure that they will accurately assess the significance of the fact that various offshore pins are still connected to the Hungarian national economy. More than two and a half times the Hungarian government debt has been sucked out of Hungary in offshore tomatoes over the last 25 years. For example, Hungary's sovereignty is threatened by such an offshore money pump, or by the fact that the income generated here can migrate from Hungary without tax and without obstacles. The income that has not been able to stay in Hungary in the last 25 years is today lacking in education and is lacking in health care. It can also be said that the austerity packages of the last 25 years, the Matolcsy package, would not have been needed or needed to this extent if the offshore knights had been swept out of the country in due time. I very much hope that your conscience will speak tomorrow and at least support the series of articles, especially after Prime Minister Viktor Orbán last told us today that he is proclaiming zero tolerance to corruption. If that is the case, then obviously you, Fidesz-KDNP Members, must support a comprehensive anti-corruption package. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the draft amendment before the final vote and before the final vote on the draft law relating to the establishment of the central register and amending certain administrative laws. The submission was made in T/1709. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Committee before the final vote T/1709/15. and T/1709/16 of the report before the final vote. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. [[17 .30]]
u2014-12-08-225	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 4 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed T/1709 on the establishment of a central register and on the amendment of certain administrative laws. Bill No. 1. Our Commission has assessed the single proposal and the amendment tabled to the single proposal, which has been submitted with a view to achieving coherence of the single proposal. The amendments discussed were tabled without discussion as an amendment to the final vote, with 21 yes, 6 no and 5 abstentions. Finally, the Legislative Committee supported the amendment proposal before the final vote and the report before the final vote, with 21 yes, 6 no and 5 abstentions, with a view to creating a single title and address management. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-08-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The political groups will be able to speak in 5-5 minutes, with independent representatives speaking in a total of 3 minutes. I would like to ask if there is anyone who would like to speak on behalf of the political groups or of the independent Members. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to speak very briefly on this subject. I would once again like to table it on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote, or on what the Legislative Committee has adopted, that the bill relating to the establishment of the central register and the amendment of certain administrative laws is unthinkable. It is unthinkable because it needs to be amended many times, and although the government says that these are merely language-placed clarifications for certain amendments, I have to say that this is not true for the majority, these are indeed substantive amendments. But even when it comes to grammatical amendments, it is unacceptable for legislation to take place in such an unthinkable way and for legislative proposals to be corrected at the last minute. Who knows how many more times we're gonna see this bill anyway? This type of hasty legislative method has often been criticised and criticised, and, my fellow Members, it is certainly boring for many to say this untimely. We are doing this to show you that this bill is like the previous one and the previous one. It would be good for you to take this to heart, my fellow Members, and to act accordingly in the future. So once again, I ask the Government and my fellow members of the Government to put in place a law if it does not need to be amended in four or five or six rounds, but is properly prepared, and the text is also in line with the legislative requirements. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-228	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. The decisions will take place at our meeting next week. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on Hungary's central budget for 2015 and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The submission was made in T/1794. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was conducted by the sectoral committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/1794/543. The reports of the committees involved in the debate are available on the IT network on numbers T/1794/533, 534, 535, 537, 539, 540, 541, 545, 546, 548, 549, 551, 553. Dear Parliament, T/1794/557. Number T/1794/558 and its summary report is T/1794/558. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets shall be the first to take the floor in the debate. The rapporteur of the committee, including the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions drafted in writing, may speak within a total 60-minute period of 30 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-229	Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, On 30 October 2014, the Government submitted T/1794 on the central budget for 2015 by the deadline provided for by the Act. Bill No. 1. More than five hundred amendments were submitted to the bill, several of which were incorporated into the amendments closing the in-depth debate. I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Committee on Budgets, acting as the Committee on the role of the Legislative Committee, discussed the bill at its meeting on 3 December 2014, and on 4 December 2014 the Committee presented a large majority amendment and a summary report. At the same time, we initiated a six-point amendment at the committee meeting, which clarifies the summary amendment. These basically provide for technical amendments and do not represent a change in content compared to the overall budget. At our meeting, we were criticised by the opposition for the legislative process, namely that due to the large scale of the amendments and the short time available, there was little time to study them thoroughly. However, the Secretary of State has presented their content willingly and thoroughly. According to this, the total revenue of next year's budget would be HUF 67.7 billion, the total expenditure would be HUF 67.9 billion, and the deficit would be HUF 198 million. The National Defence Fund will be reduced from HUF 60 billion to HUF 30 billion. However, this is still sufficient to address potential risks to the budget. The most important changes. The expected revenue of the toll is HUF 149 billion instead of HUF 169 billion. Due to the outflow of foreign currency loans, the system of the exchange rate barrier will cease to exist. Personal income tax is expected to rise by HUF 5 billion. Eximbank's capital increase of HUF 20 billion is due to the fact that this year will take place, so it does not have to be planned next year. The government provides one billion HUF for the organization of the National Agricultural and Food Exhibition. Local governments that have not benefited from debt consolidation due to their management can receive HUF 12.5 billion of development aid in 2015 for four years as defined in the Law and Government Decree. The amendment of the bill proposes to increase the hourly fee of the public defender or legal helper from 4 to 5 thousand HUF. The proposal provides additional resources for the physical implementation of government windows and the financing of the local administration system in the order of HUF 7.9 billion. For the implementation of the programme series related to the year of German-Hungarian friendship, 400 million HUF is set out in the proposal. To support and create a small number of faith and ethics groups, a special appropriation will be included in the bill, called supplementary ethical education support. And among next year's sports grants, Hungaroring Sport Zrt. You can count an increase of HUF 500 million. To strengthen Hungarian communities living in the diaspora, Kőrösi Csoma programme will increase its budget by HUF 1.5 billion. [[17.40]] On this basis, in line with the economic policy objectives launched in 2010, the government remains committed to maintaining financial stability and stimulating economic growth and increasing employment. The 2015 budget accounts for a 2.5 percent economic growth and a 2.4 percent budget deficit. The objective remains to further reduce public debt, with a budget of 75,4 per cent of GDP. The government's measures to encourage employment to date have brought the expected results, unemployment has fallen to the greatest extent in Hungary in the last year, employment has peaked at 22 years, more than 4 million people have been employed in Hungary for more than several months. In recent years the unemployment rate has decreased from 11 percent to 7.4 percent. The 2015 budget will be a budget for the accountability of banks. The Fair Banking Act enters into force and the settlement of foreign exchange loans will take place from mid-January to the end of the year. This will further reduce the burden on families. This year, the family tax relief left nearly HUF 230 billion in income for families, and the benefits offered by the family tax system will remain next year. This leaves an additional HUF 240 billion in Hungarian families. The full gross salary can remain in the pocket of small families with multiple children. In addition, from 2016 onwards, we will gradually double the benefit of parents who have two children, from HUF 10 thousand per child to HUF 20,000. What is new is that we also encourage marriage with a tax discount. For two years after the marriage, the first couple can receive a tax reduction of HUF 5 000 per month, i.e. HUF 60,000 per year. The Gyed extra will continue in 2015 because it has proved that it encourages childbearing and the employment of mothers with small children. New home-building programmes will be launched in 2016, and the legal conditions will be established in 2015. In 2015, the armed and law enforcement career model will be launched. The salary of employees in this sector increases by 30 percent in July 2015. Next year's salary increase will be followed by further wage increases. The government will also develop a new housing support programme for law enforcement workers. In 2015, we will maintain the amount of old-age benefits, pensions will rise by almost 1.8 percent with inflation. Older people's burdens are reduced even by reducing their costs. Dear Parliament! We have been through the debate on the first draft budget law, which is in line with the new house rules. Unlike so far, Parliament has therefore not discussed the main figures first, and then the possibilities of reorganising within the main figures, but has managed this whole bill in a uniform manner. I would therefore like to thank everyone who has been involved in the preparation of the law, and I would like to thank the Members of the House and the committees for their very serious and very strained work, and just so that the budget for 2015 can rest on a sound basis, I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the bill in the next period. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-08-230	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minority opinions will now be presented in a total of 30 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2014-12-08-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In our view, the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2015 does not comply with the House Rule 44. § 1 (paragraph 1 (d), the condition of compliance with the professional requirements of legislation, given that certain appropriations provided for in the budget cannot be considered justified. The State Audit Office also considers that 6,58 percent of expenditure appropriations which it does not fully control are only partially justified and 0.4 percent of the budget is not justified. This rate is even worse than the revenue appropriations audited: 26,9 per cent is partially sound and 1.2 per cent is not well founded. That is the opinion of the State Audit Office. In the opinion of the MSZP, a budget in which revenue from the general sales tax is increased by HUF 20 billion prior to submission to Parliament on the draft bill sent to the Board of Budgets cannot be regarded as a well prepared bill in line with the professional requirements of the legislation. It is also not considered to be a condition in line with the professional requirements of the legislation that the budget's revenue in relation to public assets could be found at HUF 169 billion on the appropriations and the reasons for other sales and exploitation revenues. At the same time, these risks are already capable of endangering the achievement of the general government deficit target and of the sovereign debt reduction targets resulting from the Fundamental Law. In our view, the proposal submitted does not comply with house rules 44. The formal requirements under paragraph 1 (a) of paragraph 1 do not apply either, since the Fundamental Law states that the draft laws on the central budget and its implementation must include public expenditure and revenue in the same structure, transparently and in reasonable detail. Under this provision, the budget does not meet this requirement, taking into account the fact that it does not contain information on how it will make HUF 169 billion in revenue to the State, and the budget did not see any basis for these revenues belonging to the investment fund. It should be mentioned here that, in connection with an interpellation, Mr Tállai, State Secretary, said that this revenue will be realised through movable and real estate sales and frequency charges. However, it should be mentioned here that the sale of frequency charges has already been planned once by this government in the NMHH budget of HUF 8 billion worth 600 million. In line with the government debt reduction rule laid down in Article 36 of the Fundamental Law, there is also a high risk, according to the MSZP, of this submission. Deficit and public debt are at the border. It is sufficient that economic growth or budget deficits become slightly more unfavourable than planned. The Fiscal Council also identified as a risk the macro-economic path on which this budget is moving and doubts as to whether a 2.5 percent increase in GDP could be achieved. This requires a specific set of conditions, as described in the Budgetary Council. For example, the external conditionality, the international economy, cannot deteriorate significantly, and this is currently a worsening trend. The inflow of EU funds for the EU budget cycle 2007-2013 should take place at the appropriate pace of government plans and should be expected to slow down. A large increase in consumption-related tax revenues should be fully achieved, and these tax revenues have always been overdesigned. Under the Fundamental Law, public debt should decrease every year. According to the bill submitted, the debt-to-GDP ratio of 76.3 per cent at the end of this year will be 75.4 per cent at the end of next year. However, it is enough that the government or the macroeconomic path, as predicted by the Fiscal Council, cannot reduce the 85.2 percent record government debt in the first half of 2014 to the level planned by the end of the year, will be less favourable than the government plans, and the public debt will no longer decrease but increase. It is important to note that the reduction in government debt only corresponds to the Hungarian debt rule and does not meet all the criteria of the Maastricht criteria, i.e. both the debt-to-GDP ratio in 2014 and the year-end 2015 was taken into account at a price of HUF 310.1. [[17.50]] In case of a weaker forint, the actual debt ratio will actually rise. In any case, public debt did not enter a sustainable path without the government taking and spending nearly 3 million people's retirement savings of nearly HUF 3000 billion. In the opinion of the MSZP, while poverty continues to grow and deepen in Hungary, by gradually reducing social expenditure, the government is becoming less and less consistent with the provisions of Article XVII of the Fundamental Law. 1 and 19 The European Economic and Social Committee shall have the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the principles laid down in this Article. On the social policy side, the 2015 budget brings further poverty by further freezing and reducing subsidies, which is particularly marked by changes in GDP-related terms for social aid. While poverty indicators are deteriorating, income scissors are increasingly opening up, while the government is drawing new resources from the worst-off social groups, including disabled people and poorer families with children. Negative redistribution is taking place, i.e. most welfare benefits flow towards the upper and upper middle classes, while the poor are getting less money and more control. This policy includes a policy of authoritarian elements, which preserves the privileges of a narrow minority. In order to change this, the MSZP proposes a total transfer of approximately HUF 271.8 billion to T/1794/413. In the amending proposal No 7 for certain social and public care appropriations without thereby affecting the balance of the budget. Resources for transfers to government luxury investments, communication, protocol expenditure and nationalisation and money for unnecessary consultants. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-08-232	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-233	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House,
u2014-12-08-234	Congresswoman, the microphone isn't working properly. Be nice and try again.
u2014-12-08-235	It's working now. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The following is how I can summarize Jobbik's minority opinion on the Budget Act. Nearly all the budget principles based on written and unwritten customary law are negated by the author, and it also violates the Fundamental Law. Article 36 of the Fundamental Law declares, on the basis of the principle of reasonable detail, the requirement which, unfortunately, the government does not understand or understand, but still refuses to enforce. I would like to support this view with the following examples. XLIII. In Chapter 1, Title 1, Chapter 3, the author calculates an income of HUF 169 billion under the name of other sales and exploitation revenues. It does not add any explanation, nor does it make any reference to the financial transactions behind this item. Privatization? Hire? We can only guess. The government is unable to prepare the state wealth register promised in 2010 or, as we called it, the national inventory. We have no idea how much and what the state's wealth consists of, the unknown elements of which are now being used by the government so to speak. And what is exploitation at all? Annex X to the bill allocates HUF 186 billion for various investments. They are the source of certain sales and exploitation revenues of revenue relating to State assets in the last and only line of the submission. The government sees the state's wealth as some kind of bountiful horn, giving it and buying it as it pleases. And what assets might we be talking about next year? There is no explanation, for example, of the need and the alienity of the construction or reconstruction of various stadiums, in the general justification. With regard to the first title of the chapter on revenue and expenditure related to state assets, we do not know what real estate the government wants to sell for HUF 8.3 billion and why. CHAPTER XX Chapter 8, Title 8 envisages HUF 143 billion to support universities and colleges, which will be supplemented by HUF 283 billion with its own revenue. The budgets of previous years still included the budgets of each university. This is what the government is saying will spare the Parliament, which is all the more regrettable, because next year's budget will be one of the victims of higher education. Transparency, the principle of transparency, means that the bill must be submitted to Parliament in such a way as to enable Members to adapt to the figures in the sea. We also believe that this principle is seriously violated. As an example, I would like to mention the following. Expenditure and support of the Government's favourite university, the National University of Public Service, for example, are provided in Annex XI. In Chapter I, the section of the Prime Minister's Office, we can find the appropriations for universities and colleges, as I have just mentioned, in section XX. For more information, see section 4. I would also like to add what I said at the committee meeting. I have said, in a literal way, the following, Mr President, namely, that we cannot support uncertainties regarding the transformation of the social system. As we know, in 2014 the government provided HUF 93 billion plus HUF 39 billion in support to each category of aid, which the municipalities had to complement in a certain proportion. This will look like 60 billion forints in the category of walking aid payments in 2015 as we have seen in the amendment of the proposal, and another 30 billion will be added to local governments, municipalities with less than 32 thousand forints of tax power. This is about HUF 90 billion in total for the following year. This means that there will be 42 billion forints less of the support that the government will give to the municipalities and to the districts. We believe that this will cause considerable tensions with regard to aid in the social sphere in the municipalities. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We know that this outstanding aid will only be recovered by the municipalities in the form of a tax charge, since the law also states that it will be possible to replace this loss of aid only on its own income. We believe that this is in no way a viable way, and there is no way in which the government's intention to give the municipalities, so to speak, more leeway by giving them the opportunity to levy a municipal tax. The Committee, acting in its legislative role, summarised the Commission's opinions and, more specifically, decided on the Commission's summary opinions. At midnight on the day before this meeting, an amending package of some 100 billion was put up by the government. We find this completely incomprehensible, and we believe that if you want a responsible decision from legislators that the government takes the work of this House seriously, you cannot put the Committee on Budgets in such a situation for a moment. Unfortunately, however, the government representatives were able to decide on this more than HUF 100 billion legislative amendment on the spot. We have rejected this in one way or another because we believe that we cannot make a responsible decision in this sense, and we cannot support this in any way. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-236	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now from the group of the LMP that Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, is coming. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The following is the opinion of the LMP minority. Pursuant to Article N of the Fundamental Law, Hungary enforces the principle of balanced, transparent and sustainable budgetary management, and Parliament and the Government are primarily responsible for the enforcement of this principle. In addition to non-compliance with these principles, this draft budget cannot be supported or even unacceptable for a number of reasons. One of them is to cement the constraints of recent years, more than HUF 200 billion of education has been withdrawn in recent years, with a real deficit of HUF 400 billion compared to 2010, but the financing of healthcare, social care, culture and environmental protection has also been reduced. [[18.00]] On the basis of Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Hungary enforces the principle of balanced, transparent and sustainable budgetary management and is primarily responsible for the implementation of this principle by the Parliament and the Government. In addition to non-compliance with these principles, this draft budget cannot be supported or even unacceptable for a number of reasons. One of them is to cement the constraints of recent years, more than HUF 200 billion of education has been withdrawn in recent years, with a real deficit of HUF 400 billion compared to 2010, but the financing of healthcare, social care, culture and environmental protection has also been reduced. 6 p.m. Entrapment of restrictions means that the foundations that guarantee the long-term development of our country, which means that human capital, knowledge and health will be destroyed. There is no economic development programme that can succeed on such a basis. Without raising capital at home, we are inopportune, and this accumulation of capital should primarily take place in human and environmental funds. [[To the representatives of the Jobbik faction who are talking to each other:]] May I ask my better fellow Members? I'm really embarrassed that you're here to talk to me. Thus, the thousands of billions of EU funds, which increase investment for a period of time, can fatten some circles, but the impact is not lasting. Even because our economic structure has not improved and the income outflow has not decreased. The introduction of restrictions has tragic consequences in the field of education. There was no country on Earth that could have broken out of its peripheral position without abundant mineral resources without massively investing almost all free resources in education. The current government is on the opposite path: extracting resources from education. Our break is guaranteed. The cementation of restrictions also means the disintegration of society. There are 4 million people living under the minimum of living, and this number is growing. Nevertheless, the government continues to extract funds from real job creation and social care and maintain a money pump from the poor to the rich. One-key tax will remain, which will increase your top five by 444 billion a year compared to 2010 and will take 134 billion out of the pockets of those who earn less. The burden of earners around the minimum wage has essentially doubled since 2010. The obvious effect of this is the poverty of the broad layers, not only among the unemployed, but also among those who work, but still live below the minimum living. The country is sinking deeper into the social disaster. This budget will do nothing to stop this process. And they're spending an extra $39 billion on community service. In addition to the fact that what they say is not true is that it compensates for the loss of social benefits, as they are reducing more, mass community service is a mistake, rather than making people fit for a normal job that provides a living. We think, by the way, that there are public works that create value, but the biggest problem is that public work closes, keeps people in poverty. According to the ruling party, net community service of HUF 50,000 is much better than 22,000. The difference is 30,000 forints, so let's count on it. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: It's not that different!]] And they work eight hours a day for it. Dear fellow Members, You can't make a living from 50,000 forints a month for 8 hours a day, most of the time for physical work! If you think you do, try to make a living for a few months with 50,000 net forints a month! To heat a house or a small apartment or child in winter, especially if a husband or his wife doesn't get into the community service program. What's on the other side? It is unacceptable and immoral for us to reduce social benefits, education, cultural resources, large-scale stadium constructions and continue to waste ten billion in energy, real estate and other sectors. For various stadiums 20 billion, for the National Olympic Centre 44 billion, for Paks II 28 billion, of course, this is not enough to say, for the capital increase of MVM 50 billion, for the recapitalisation of Eximbank 41 billion, for MNV Zrt. 23 billion in real estate purchases - to give just a few examples. We expect a more responsible budget, one that responds to social processes and problems. One that does not place individual passes before the public interest, which would reflect the need to correct the wrong economic policy steps in recent years. This budget is not like this, and it is therefore to be discarded. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-12-08-238	Thank you very much. The next minority representative is Ms Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-08-239	Thank you very much. Of the independent Members, I will now give my opinion on the proposals that we have tabled together with Szabó Szabó Szabolcs. Dear House, From the draft before us, the budget we have discussed in recent weeks, we will find out what is important to Viktor Orbán's party and what is not. It turns out that Fidesz continues to build a vassal state from Hungary, which sees people as subjects instead of citizens. The biggest losers of change, as always, the young. You are talking about accounting banks, families, growth of prosperity, while the 2015 budget is nothing more than a distressing belt in the hands of the government. 2015 will be the year of new tax increases, 13 taxes will rise in Hungary next year. Whatever you say, the fact is that next year there will be much less money for people's health, families, social assistance and unemployment benefits. And hiding behind the billions of EMMIs, there's also a reduction in education. The government plans to cut high schools and train skilled workers instead. As a result of the amendments to your additional, budget-based salads, it is clear that one of the most important elements of this proposal is invisibility, intransparency. On the one hand, it turns out that not everything is in the proposal. All sorts of absolutions reveal reality. On the other hand, because the transformation of the school system is a gigantic experimentation, a complete embodiment of the worldview of Fidesz. The real vision of Fidesz about the country and the Hungarian families. Decommissioning the high school system is more than a crime. Children who do not master basic skills today will face the horror of unemployment throughout their lives. If you graduate in Hungary, go to university, you have a much better chance of getting a job, earning more, and you have a chance to move on. Since 2010, Fidesz has been chasing people who are learning to break out of their difficult lives. This is what the delivery of school obligations, the centralization of schools and the introduction of massive tuition fees were all about. In 2010, we spent 11,6 percent of GDP on education, and next year this rate will be 9.7 percent. A system that does not support all children getting as far as possible in the school system actually makes the future of poorer and rural families impossible. In your system, every child can only get as long as his family's wallet allows. Breakout, lack of knowledge, no chance at all. This is your real family model: a demented school system, obstruction of outbursts, reduced family allowance and child benefits, deteriorating health care and forced community service parents. While there are 4 million people living below the poverty line in Hungary and the middle class is slipping down, you waste people's money on their luxury hobbies. The repressed 2015 budget is opaque and uncredited. It is opaque, because many billions of forints do not know where the government wants to collect it or exactly what it spends it on. Even the SAO, which cannot be accused of anti-government, has found an unsubstantiated measure of HUF 200 billion in the budget. And there's 19 billion in VAT that came from one day to the next. Your budget plan is also uncredited. Until the government clears itself of corruption in recent weeks, any decision of this government in tax and budgetary matters is illegal. In my fellow Member Szabolcs Szabó's minority opinion, he summarised the proposals for amendments submitted by the two of us to the bill on the budget. [[18.10]] We have proposed that the investment in the Paks, which is technically unfounded and repelled our country into decades of Russian debt slavery, be spent on higher education, with 30 billion and 70 billion for the so-called public media services that carry out the poor party propaganda. With the proposal voted down by the Fidesz majority, it would have been possible for teachers to receive remuneration for their work at universities with serious lack of resources, and for Hungarian higher education to be once again at the European forefront. We also suggested that instead of another gigantic stadium program, 40 billion more to the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center in order to make sure that teachers actually have money to raise their wages. We have suggested that the government's innumerable disguises be given funds to the pedagogical services instead of 2 billion of the National Cooperation Fund. In recent years, the government has spectacularly destroyed Hungarian public education; despite all the protests of the participants in the system, it has radically transformed it and pushed it into last century circumstances. One of the less spectacular elements of the destruction was the destruction of pedagogical services, the reduction of the resources of children and support institutions requiring special treatment. The aim of our proposal was to correct this. As a drop in the sea, our voted amendments show the incredible difference between the visions of Together and Fidesz about Hungary. Fidesz is building a backward state of fief to Russia and the East, 4 million poor and a few hundred wealthy Fidesz countries. Not only does it not help or support individual efforts, but as a thief, it pockets people's hard-earned tax forints. In our minds, on the other hand, there is a picture of a modern European knowledge economy that is put back on the forefront of Europe by the work and effort of well-trained, conscious and active citizens, where the fate of children does not depend on how much money their families have, where not political relations, but knowledge and diligence decide how they manage. The 2015 budget is indeed a reflection of government policy. In this proposal neither the numbers nor the intentions are correct. This budget is not what you say it is. This is the budget of a seriously slippery and torn country, a corrupt government's confusing plan for future finances. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-240	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of minority opinions. Now, before I give the floor to Mr Tállai State Secretary, I would like to draw your attention to the opportunity to speak together in the debate and to close for 10 minutes to Mr State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-08-241	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I thank the fellow Members and Parliament's committees for the conscientious, thorough and responsible work they have done to adopt the bill on the central budget for 2015. This is also true of the pro-government and opposition representatives. As Minister Mihály Varga said in the exposé of the bill, Hungary's budget for next year focused on job creation, support for families and economic recovery, so the budget bill states that next year we will spend more on supporting families and children, job creation and education, public security, support for farmers, preservation of the value of pensions and, not least, economic development. Accordingly, the family tax system leaves HUF 240 billion in the family, while small-income families with multiple children can manage their total gross salary. In four years, the benefit of parents who have two children gradually doubles. We are introducing new housing support, which can also be used to buy used apartments. Thanks to the accountability of the banks, the Hungarian families can return some 1100 billion forints, and the repayments may be reduced by up to 25-30 percent. In addition to continuing the teacher career model, wage increases for law enforcement workers will also begin. In addition, there will be more resources to support health care, to develop the sector and to preserve health. Support for the civilian sector is also rising from 3 to 5 billion forints so far. In the area of economic development, we can count on extremely high support, as in the next seven years there will be a HUF 12 000 billion EU resource coming to Hungary. Dear House, Of the amendments tabled to the bill, the government supported those which are in line with our efforts and do not jeopardise the deficit target. Accordingly, the Government supports the preliminary amendment tabled by the Parliament's Committee on Budgets as a legislative committee. Dear Parliament, The amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets includes, inter alia, an amendment to the revenue allocation for the financial transaction fee, the telecommunications tax, the advertising tax and the toll proportional to the journey taken. These motions are in line with the changes adopted by the Parliament during the negotiations of the laws affecting the budget, such as tax laws. The Committee's motion therefore takes into account the fact that it has finally been possible to convert foreign currency loans into HUF with the resulting exchange barrier system, as well as the increase in personal income tax income and reduced wage compensation based on favourable employment and wage data. The Commission proposal proposes additional support for a number of sectors, territories and programmes that fit well with the government's economic policy, and we therefore naturally support them. I would like to point out that next year we will spend a higher amount than planned on organising a national agricultural and food exhibition, supporting the sport of people with disabilities, and on school and gym constructions. The government also supports the motion to provide additional resources to support the religious activities of the churches and to issue agricultural secondary vocational education institutions. Finally, the amending proposal also includes chapters-to-Chapter null transfers and technical transfers. I should mention, among these, that, in view of the better development of tax and contribution revenues this year, the share of social contribution tax income between funds will be changed for the financial funds of social security. Dear Parliament, The amendments made in the Commission's proposal do not jeopardise the achievement of the target deficit-to-GDP ratio of 2.4 per cent. The items affecting each general government balance are essentially equal to each other, while each additional expenditure is financed by the allocation of the National Defence Fund. The dynamic growth of Hungary's economy, currently projected to 3.2 percent, and the 2.5 percent planned for 2015 with a conservative estimate, is a guarantee that, on the basis of the proposed amendment, the reduced National Defence Fund appropriation will provide sufficient coverage to prevent potential risks. I am convinced that with the adoption of the 2015 budget, the economic policy that has put Hungary among the better performing countries in Europe, based on growth, employment and public finances figures, can continue. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the overall amendment tabled by the Committee and to adopt the 2015 budget bill on this basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-08-242	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll inform you that you'll have 3 minutes and 40 seconds to close. The speeches will now be followed by the Members, and for the first time they have made themselves known in writing. I would like to inform my fellow Members that two-minute speeches are not possible. First from the Fidesz Group to Congressman Lajos Szűcs... [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs says no.]] Okay, well, another time, make sure your name's off the list. [[18.20]] Then it will be Mr Sándor Burány from the MSZP Group. The timeframes are visible to all of you, and I would like to ask for Mr Burány's time to be restored. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In the course of the second reading debate on the draft budget bill, it should be stated that the amendment tabled by the Government or the proposed amendment, which was finally tabled by the Committee on Budgets, further increases the risk of Hungary's budget, in particular by reducing the amount available to the National Defence Fund to cover various government expenditures by about half. It's a 30 billion forint withdrawal. With this, the framework that could be adjusted could change the macro path that might be cleared, reducing the risk of next year's economic policy by halving the budget. Also the risk was increased by the measure, the part in which personal income tax revenues were increased by about 5 percentage points, without any particular impact assessment, simply because the government's optimism became stronger than it was at the time the budget was submitted. At the same time, the government has not been able to propose additional transfers for various prestigious investments. In the framework of this, Viktor Orbán's move to Castle will cost more than HUF 2 billion, as the amendment tabled, prepared and tabled by the government, provided for an additional amount to move to the Prime Minister's Office Castle. It is well known that there is currently a dance theatre in the building that Viktor Orbán has chosen. To accommodate this dance theatre, the summing up proposal includes HUF 2.5 billion. Thus, Viktor Orbán's move to Castle is expensive. In addition to the amendments, the most important thing that we must say and make clear is that, at the same time, the basic nature of the budget has not changed to our greatest regret and regret. The basic nature is unchanged, this budget is based on tax increases, by extending different taxes and introducing new taxes on the revenue side, and, at the same time, on the expenditure side and on the distribution side, it continues the tragic social policy process leading to the country's division and partial poverty. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. A few days ago, the latest figures of the development of Hungarian poverty were presented at the Sociology Institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. This series of lectures and series of studies were public, originally not planned by researchers, but given the fact that the Hungarian Central Statistical Office stopped publishing data on poverty in Hungary on grounds of lack of resources, sociologists decided to present trends and figures based on these data and Eurostat data in a public presentation. Well, contrary to the government's claim that the spread of poverty had been stopped, it turned out that real processes were exactly the opposite. The spread of poverty could not have been stopped, but, on the contrary, at an accelerated rate, an increasing number of people are getting among the poor. We are one of Europe's hosts in all kinds of indicators and comparisons, and the most tragic thing about these processes is that children are the greatest victims of poverty. Children's poverty is growing at the highest rate in Hungary. In this we are not only lagging behind in comparison to the EU average, I must say that we are also failing in relation to the Visegrád countries. In terms of child poverty, we are in the same group as Bulgaria and Romania, for example. In fact, while in most countries, even in Romania, ladies and gentlemen, some of the negative trends have been stopped or reversed, Hungary has also done poorly in this respect. With us, these indicators have not stopped in decline or deterioration, or reversed this trend; these figures, which are based on the figures of the HCSO and Eurostat, clearly indicate that poverty in Hungary is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen. In order to stop this, the Hungarian Socialist Party submitted a comprehensive amendment package, but the representatives of the governing parties did not support this at committee meetings. In this form, therefore, this budget is a budget for tax increases and poverty, and we cannot support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-08-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-245	Mr President, Dear House, We must say that our basic position has not changed, that we have before us the previous cuts and the budget for the new types of taxes. After all, since the publication of the first press reports on this draft budget, until the end of the amendments and until one stage of this virtually detailed debate, five types of tax have been found to increase and five similar transfers have been made, which are also revealed in the context of the amendments and introduced into the system. The government continues to expect economic growth above 2 per cent, which is not only highly exaggerated, but also contains a lot of spinning and temporary effects. And we, Jobbikos, cannot be so happy that the Hungarian economy's engine comes from the performance of various foreign factories here, since they mostly exclude the capital to be involved in public burdens from the country. They do not participate sufficiently in public burdens because the government, as a strategic partner, still provides them with unreasonably large, huge benefits, in many cases under the heading of job creation, from which the labour burden of the multi-company concerned for the next two years can be paid for the workers concerned. You can see that while you are talking about the budget for accounting banks, and in our improved proposals we have brought up a thousand times that there is a need to prevent the transfer of various sectoral special taxes, transaction fees and others by means of consumer protection mechanisms and other means, the fact that the government does not, by any means, prevent the transfer of these sectoral tax types to Hungarian citizens and residents is still a burden of 400 billion dollars. It is quite simply accepting that the banks and financial institutions concerned themselves admit in their communications that they do pass on these burdens. And what does the Fidesz-KDNP do? Sometimes a secretary of state tells me that's not true. Compared to this, statistics show that it's true in a nasty way. It has already been said that up to 13 types of taxes may rise in 2015, but it is very important for the tax system to point out that the government has an increase in VAT revenues of up to 100 billion. So you want to squeeze more out of those people in the form of VAT. At the same time, the background calculations behind this, the rhythm and logic of this are not known, although the figures show this. It would therefore be worth knowing what expectations are behind this. Who, though, will the taxes of the poor, because that is the name of the VAT, will bear 27 percent of the European record value even more than in the past? And we must say that what the large majority of our amendments were aimed at - basically on social issues that improve the lives of ordinary people - is problems related to home creation, and the government is essentially not promising anything. So far, what has been done under the heading of home creation has essentially been the replacement of the state leg of the 2.0s, but not the establishment of a public housing system or a home-building network, either on the basis of the Austrian model or on the basis of proven systems. You can see that with Socpol and semi-socpol types of discounts, you tell the Hungarian youth who does not have 16 million forints on a large city or simple city apartment that you will get Socpol, half-socipol, let's say, one and a half million discount, but he may not have 13 or 16 million. Quite simply, a program should be put in front of the Hungarian young people, the most affected by emigration, so that they can stay at home, so that they can see within a few years that they are able to reach a home of their own, and that a lease, maximizing half of the current market rents, could lead to a situation where a few years later the properties concerned could be transferred to their property. [[18.30]] Such a programme - even taking into account the budgetary burden involved - would give four or five Hungarian economic sectors a huge capital injection, keep young people in Hungary, and, most importantly, it would also be able to substantially increase the willingness to have children. But along such a budget, which does not lead to almost one of the measures taken by the austerity packages of the Gyurcsány, Bajnai eras, but introduces new types of tax... - do not forget that in 2010 we knew 34 types of tax, then this went up to 41 in 2014, and now the tax palette of the government is heading 45 ways. We don't know how much longer this can be expanded, but all of this, the impression of everything, can be seen here on this draft budget. Neither the general nor the detailed debate could change this, and therefore Jobbik reserves the right to fight against what has been put before us with all the decent means, as this brings about the decay in Hungary and the cementation of restrictions. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-247	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said in the budget debate. For my part, I would like to say a few words about the amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets, which have been voted by the majority of governments. The procedure that has already been discussed by my opposition colleague, as an amendment of about two hundred items, which will be discussed by the committee at noon the next day, will be sent at midnight - I repeat, at midnight - is completely unacceptable. A representative who gives himself anything can only respond to this by rejection. Of course, that didn't bother the majority of the government, so I think they knew how they were gonna vote before they got the proposal to be a little cynical. These amendments may also be subject to objection. They indicate a very bad process, that the Fidesz has separated from reality, has separated from the country, and is spending a lot of money that is incomprehensible. In particular, when we look at this, they refer to demagoguery in a pompous way, although it is very simply about what we spend taxpayers' money on, all of us' sweaty taxes: luxury investments, tax relief for the wealthy or perhaps social benefits, education, wage increases for poor earners. Simple choice of value, what's more important: to help those who slide down or help those who are already raised by money to buy gold Rolex and swimming pool villas and run to New Zealand for a concert. One striking point in the Commission's amendments is that the National Dance Theatre receives HUF 2.7 billion for a new building. According to the Secretary of State, who spoke to the people involved, the dancers are very happy about the new building and the opportunity. We too rejoice at the joy of the dancers; less so that it is because Prime Minister wants to move to the Castle, he thinks it is only a place worthy of him. This Urization costs 6.2 billion forints, plus this 2.7 billion, we are now at 9 billion in total, and how will it end? Even if a new dance theater was built, the Prime Minister's Office would remain in place. The other weird item is Hungaroring Zrt. increase its support by HUF 500 million, so the organization's support in 2015 is already over HUF 10 billion. Is there really no other place for 1.8 billion forints than supporting a show show called Red Bull Air Race? The payment of legal fees to a multinational whose products are otherwise considered unhealthy by the government, since it is charged with a special tax. And in the same way, Formula-1's support may bring you a weekend in catering, accommodation, but is it worth paying billions to a multi-billion billion-dollar rightholder? The Ecclestone who was sentenced to almost ten years in prison by a German court and was saved only by the payment of 23 billion forints of grief money, and we pay him billions of royalties? Dear members of the government. Are you sure the Hungarian taxpayers' money is going to the right place? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP. Intercom from the lines of the MSZP: Yes!]]
u2014-12-08-248	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Since a round has gone down, the speakers have expressed their views from all the groups so far, it is now possible for me to give the opportunity to speak to Mr Ritter, a German minority advocate, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-249	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Das Haushaltsgesetz 2015 kann einen positiveen Durchbruch im Leben der 13 in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten und in der Beziehung der Nationalitäten und der ungarischen Politik bedeuten. Mr President, Mr House, The 2015 Central Budget Act can be a positive breakthrough in the life of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, in the relationship between nationalities and Hungarian politics. Myself and my fellow advocates in our previous comments have already revealed in detail what an unworthy and vulnerable situation the nationalities in Hungary are in. We have said that the municipal, regional and national minority authorities and national minority NGOs have not received a single HUF increase in support for 8-10-12 years, despite the fact that these areas have been deeply underfunded even at the start of the project. Therefore, in view of the new opportunities offered by the mandate of advocate, we have already assessed and compiled the requirements of the Hungarian nationalities in relation to the 2015 central budget. Our proposals were sent to all the factions, professional wallets, long before the 2015 budget was submitted. With two months of continuous work, multi-stage coordination, we reached a 2 billion HUF amendment package with a compromise opening, which was considered professionally sound by the wallets, which we were promised to support by all parliamentary groups, independent representatives and the government. This can mean a clear breakthrough, a meaningful, positive shift in the relationship between Hungarian ethnicities and Hungarian politics because of the following. 1. After 25 years, the previous Parliament has ensured the participation of Hungarian nationalities in the work of Parliament, which gives us the opportunity to express our opinion.2. In 2013, significant progress has been made towards the expansion of cultural autonomy by broadening the legal possibilities for national minority self-government reservations and by substantially increasing the operational support of the national minority public education institutions received. 3. The adoption by Parliament of the agreed amendment proposal to the 2015 central budget bill submitted by the Hungarian nationalities could at last lead to a meaningful and comprehensive improvement in the life of the Hungarian nationalities. 4. Finally, this decision of the new Hungarian Parliament can also give weight and credibility to the institution of ethnic advocates. This means that Hungarian politics is really serious about the presence and role of Hungarian nationalities in Parliament, and at last considers us to be an equal partner. I started my comment a few weeks ago on the 2013 Central Budget Act by saying that we, the nationalities of Hungary, had nothing to do with the central budgets, preparation and acceptance of the 2013 and previous years. On the other hand, our amendment to the draft law on the central budget of 2015 has been drawn up and negotiated independently, and in the political decision on its total amount, our opinion has been taken into consideration in substance, and even in the light of the total amount, in particular the priorities of each area of nationality, the size and internal proportions of the sums, we, the nationalities living in Hungary, have been able to decide for ourselves. [[18.40]] For the first time in the last 25 years, the Hungarian Parliament will be faced with the decision of the central budget bill and its amendments, not without us and above our heads, but with the opinion of the nationalities living in Hungary being heard and taken into account. This is rightly and without exaggeration a historical change. On this basis, we, the nationalities living in Hungary, can finally represent Hungary honestly, with a good heart, authentically in our mother countries and throughout Europe, which we consider to be our priority. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-08-250	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches made by the Members of the Commission in advance. I would like to take the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We have tabled a proposal for amendment to meet the promise of a spring and autumn fidesz election with Attila Mesterházy for the benefit of the red mud victims. This would be about the state being able to abide by the winning lawsuits. I very much hope that this fidesz promise will be voted by the Fidesz Members. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-08-252	Thank you very much. There are only representatives registered in writing from the MSZP fraction. The next speaker was Mr Gábor István Harangozó. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The transport operational programme sent to Brussels on 17 November does not include the motorway 67, despite the promises, and I have therefore tabled a budget amendment to cover this. I would like to call on the former President of the General Assembly and the Commissioner for Road Affairs of Somogy County to ask this amendment to be voted on and to help lobby in order to get it back into the Brussels programme. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-254	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-255	Thank you, Mr. President. The anti-poverty tax system, the corresponding budget, is all we have ahead of us with brutal austerity in 2015. Our amendments to many settlements in Miskolc and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County have been submitted in order to provide a helping hand to those people who are already living their lives in a difficult line. I need your support for this. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-256	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-257	Thank you very much. We have heard the tax relief of two children several times today, and this item is not included in the 2015 budget, and 350 thousand families are being cheated every day. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-258	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It's time for Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-259	They take HUF 5 billion out of employment for people with disabilities. Shame on you!
u2014-12-08-260	The next speaker was Mr Dezső Believing, notary of the Parliament.
u2014-12-08-261	Secretary of State, you would spend 5 billion forints less on the most vulnerable, defenseless and vulnerable sections of Hungarian society, on the disabled, and on wheelchair users. We have tabled an amendment which would correct this error. I'm asking for your support.
u2014-12-08-262	Thank you very much. It's time for Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-08-263	Our amending proposal would have raised the defence budget to 1 percent of GDP, which would have substantially improved basic tasks. The Fidesz people voted against it, so that's what the Prime Minister's word in Vilnius is worth to you. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the defence must ensure the security of our country, never a propaganda instrument trying to maintain the appearance of the Prime Minister's non-existent authority. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-264	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes is next. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-265	You did not support the fact that we wanted to give more money for vocational training in the counties of Bács-Kiskun and Tolna. This would be essential if you were serious about maintaining capacity in Paks and considered it not only a business but a professional issue. We do not see a guaranteed 40 percent Hungarian entrepreneurial circle in the submitted new Seszták law either. Training is not important to you, professionalism is not important, Paks is not important. All they see is business and money. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-266	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr László Teleki. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-267	I think that the 2015 budget could lead to a social disaster if it is not changed and withdrawn. But equally true is the educational disaster, which, I think, already characterizes the government's actions in education, does not put as much into the social sphere as it should. If I could say two sentences about health care, I have to say that surgeries and screenings require a lot more money, because if they sacrifice so much, there will be a lot more patients. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches by Members who have been registered in advance in writing. From here we move on to speaking to those who wish to speak with the button. Mr László Varga is the first member of the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, I submitted a number of amendments to the budget, essentially in terms of development and social policy objectives, worth about HUF 5 billion. Unfortunately, these amendments were bled to death in the committees. In light of the fact that you expected us to be constructive during today's interpellation, Secretary of State, I can tell you that we have had it, but unfortunately there has not been any support from you at this time. I would ask you to give us the opportunity to support these development goals in the next week.
u2014-12-08-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-271	Mr President, Dear House, We call on the government to support our line of home creation in a very clear way. With a small amount of more than 50 billion dollars, it would be possible to provide an apartment for all young Hungarians at national level. We would point out that this amount is less than half of the so-called integration money you have allocated by 2020. We therefore demand, on behalf of young Hungarians, that they move in this area. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-272	Thank you very much. I would like to inform Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély that she may have accidentally pressed the two-minute mark. No two-minute speeches. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I'll give you a proper speech when it's your turn. Next up is Congressman Lajos Szűcs of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-273	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, However, there is something interesting about the fact that, for example, a lot has been said here in Parliament in relation to the 2014 budget, we have heard a cricket bug; for example, that an election budget will be prepared, or that the budget will not live in the first days. In comparison to this, we are faced with higher general government growth, lower inflation, declining public debt and deficit targets, i.e. an implemented budget, although that is not what was said here in Parliament a year ago, but that this is a budget that cannot be implemented, it is not possible. There were also transfers that I can't even classify, because we've heard such beautiful words and got caught up in the last year. Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is, however, that Fidesz-KDNP has planned and implemented a completed, achievable and secure budget for 2014. After one election year, we were in a position to negotiate, within a legal deadline, all negotiations, in a manner consistent with the Fundamental Law, a budget proposal which also requested the opinion of the Fiscal Council. In line with the new house rules, as I said in my speech to the Commission's summary report, everyone had the opportunity to express their views in a completely one-way manner. In an interesting genre, they tried to say those things as a socialist recitation chorus, fellow Members [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Which they probably didn't do when they were in power. Their conscience must have spoken, and now they wanted to make up for it. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear fellow Members, we have planned a budget that can be implemented, predictable, based on the experience of this year and previous years, and which sets out the objectives that Hungary needs. [[18.50]] I think that the highlight of the dance theatre, for example, is an interesting scene in today's debate, because if the amount of money spent on moving the dance theatre is less important, I would remind you that a few weeks or months ago, we were given the opportunity to terminate the dance theatre and not to invest in this very important area. And when we sacrifice, of course, we get that this is an unnecessary thing. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]] I think it is interesting, after all, in the light of the fact that a week ago we adopted an amendment to the 2014 budget, I do not know whether my socialist fellow Members remember that a year's budget had to be amended once. I don't think you remember that there were weekly amending budgets at your time. [[Lajos Korózs: Now what? Nine!]] , 2014 was not an example of this either. I think that a good part of what the better people have said can be taken into account, because job creation and family tax incentives, as well as home-building, are important to us, and the bill answers them. I do not think that the debate should be brought here again, but if it is to be brought here, some of them should probably take some economic lessons when they do not understand VAT and tax systems and personal income tax. There has been a very serious redeployment: we have moved from income-type taxation to consumption-type taxation. Those who do not understand this can, of course, attack and attack the VAT system, but we still think that this system supports those who want to work more. [[Anita Herring: The rich!]] and through those who consume more, there is more tax revenue for this budget. In view of all this, I think that this budget can be supported, precisely because we have proved that it can be observed. That is why you need to calm down: this budget will also be respected. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2014-12-08-275	I would like to highlight one item: we also initiated the extension of social catering to high school children and initiated social catering for children for 365 days. We're talking about the most vulnerable age group, children under 18. You voted against that. This is the Hungarian reality! It's the family-friendly government today! Poverty Can't Be Preserved [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And they don't want people to see that. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-276	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Sallai R. Benedek.
u2014-12-08-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, wanted to respond to Congressman Szőcs: [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Szűcs! It's not Spud!]] - I apologize - he says we don't understand consumption-based taxation. The problem is, what I see is that Fidesz doesn't understand that the indicator of their work is not statistical numbers, it's people's lives. How many children get on vacation, how much of the population-reservation power in the countryside, how many roads they fix, how many people live, how many wander. This is the indicator of the budget and not the figures and statistics, and should be used to measure the success of their work. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next up, Congressman László György Lukács, please.
u2014-12-08-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I personally submitted an amendment to the construction of the Karcag Police Department, in which we asked no more than to withdraw enough money from the TEK to build this. I asked no more than the Ministers of Karcag to support this proposal. I don't want any more now. Don't hurt me if you can't help me. Please vote in favour, ask and vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman György Szilágyi is also coming from Jobbik.
u2014-12-08-281	Thank you very much. I would ask my fellow pro-government Members to help thousands of Hungarian families make their dream come true and have children. Therefore, ask for and support the amendment to the Jobbik Hungary Movement, which would support IVF, i.e. the IVF programme by HUF 2 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-282	Thank you very much. It is also coming from the Jobbik Group, Mr Sebestyén Craftsman, please.
u2014-12-08-283	Thank you very much. I would just like to ask you, too, what many people have asked from opposition benches, to think about whether they really want to provide less for social care systems, social professional programmes and support for jobs and wages for people with disabilities. Also, do they really think that they would spend tens of billions of forints on drug testing against the fact that 303 million forints are currently available in the budget for drug prevention. Accept our amendment, at least the amount in the 2010 budget, the HUF 960 million will be allocated to this area! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-284	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Magyar!
u2014-12-08-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am going to encourage you to make a surprising suggestion as an opposition representative. In connection with the court costs of the National Land Fund Management Organization, you have planned a HUF 100 million item. I propose to triple this by taking away the opportunity from so many local Hungarian families to cultivate their own lands, that it is likely that the National Earth Fund will need this amount in order to defend this injustice in court. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-286	Thank you very much. Congressman István Apáti, please.
u2014-12-08-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I submitted an amendment to the Satmar region to build the first phase of the M49 bypass road, which was promised 20 years ago. In addition, I proposed to support the area hospital in Mátészalka and the rescue service in Mátészalka by HUF 100 to 100 million. I ask you to accept all three of my proposals for the development of the Satmar region. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-288	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian!
u2014-12-08-289	Mr President, Dear House, I'm calling on the government to support the Alpha Alliance because it's the fetus defense alliance over the last few years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] has received fewer funding than the advocacy association of certain prostitutes. Therefore, for the sake of the Hungarian future, it would be their duty to give them this minimum support. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-290	Thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. Yes, Congressman István Happy would like to speak, please.
u2014-12-08-291	Mr. President. Dear House, Once again, I must state that everyone was doing their job when the budget was being negotiated. Of course, we have heard very nice amendments from the opposition side, but it must be noted that the government side that has presented the budget for the implementation of the budget is responsible, and the truth is that, as in the last four years, we have now submitted this budget with responsibility, and we have made enough money in all areas where it was necessary. I think if we had a chance, of course, and the country's ability to hold on to it, then here I have heard a lot of very nice suggestions myself, which I can support. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik, among them: Good! Let's go.]] But the thing is, we'll see what the performance of next year's budget will be like. I am sure that if GDP growth is greater than foreseen, then it will be possible. On the other hand, I have a comment, and I think it might be time: I do not know that the Hungarian government has taken a single hectare of land, someone's own property. I'd like to amend that, Congressman. I'm sorry. In the National Earth Fund, the state land was divided as far as I know, it wasn't owned by anyone, it was state-owned. That's why I think it was appropriate to put it right. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-292	Thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[Towards István Apáti, the Fidesz Group: Give us a time frame!]] Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, 31 seconds!
u2014-12-08-293	I would just like to say to Mr Happy Member that what he says was not owned by anyone, that is what is bad thinking, because it is community property, and should therefore have served community goals in this land. However, I would like to ask you one thing, since you have time: give me one amendment that has already been tabled, where stadiums are more important and you are confident that you can be more eligible. Name one of these. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-294	Thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] I would like to speak to you, Congressman Abbot, but unfortunately, this is such a... this is no time for this. [[István Gábor Bellozó intervenes.]] I will ask the rapporteur, Mr András Tállai, whether he wishes to use the closing option. Yes, three minutes, 40 seconds, please.
u2014-12-08-295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Noise, interruptions in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Listening to the opposition, i.e. a tax increase, poverty, atrophy, austerity. And then we found out that after midnight, we received an amendment, we didn't have to give money to a dance band, and that Ecclestone was a hobo. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] That's about what we learned from the opposition. I think the rise in taxes is confused by the opposition's surplus tax revenue. The two are not the same, because there is more tax revenue planned on one item than in the last year, it does not mean that there will be a tax increase. [[István Apáti intervenes several times.]] However, Members, the opposition, did not say that personal income tax is not increasing, sales tax is not increasing; energy charges are not rising, so the results of the reduction in the rent will remain in the pocket of Hungarian people and families. [[19.00]] They also did not mention that foreign exchange loans would disappear and would be HUFed, and the repayments would be reduced and the value of the purchase would be higher. Nor is it that educators and law enforcement workers otherwise receive an increase in income, or that Fidesz keeps his word the same way, and that he will be able to preserve the real value of pensions. However, it was not mentioned that GDP will increase by 2.5 percent, and we will be able to achieve an investment of HUF 2500 billion, with EU funds the following year. However, they did not mention that the government debt would continue to decline, or that Hungary would have to be subject to an excessive deficit procedure on the basis of this budget, which I take as a compliment, because they said that this budget could be achieved and that the deficit target would otherwise be accepted. But they also did not mention that in Hungary there will be more job opportunities provided by the state, i.e. the number of public workers, even if the opposition does not acknowledge this, I believe that it is a very serious result that we can provide jobs for tens of thousands more. I believe that the budgetary debate will end essentially today with my speech, and a budget will be judged first of all by whether it is accepted, and I very much hope that tomorrow and next week the majority will be received and Parliament will accept it, and then it will not be discussed, because the figures entered into the budget and those targets will be achieved, and thus the budget as a topic will be removed from Parliament's agenda as an agenda, unless the opposition is right that revenue and the rest cannot be achieved. But, as they say, the test of pudding is eating, and the budget is overdue; the income is achieved, so the expenses are also or are not fulfilled. Once again, I would like to thank everyone for their participation, for their work, for their conscientious attitude, and I would like to emphasise once again, also from the opposition, because the intention to improve is, of course, reflected in the amendments. This has always been an opposition genre, and I have been an opposition representative for eight years, and I have had a lot of proposals for such amendments. The point is: tomorrow and next week, the budget, 2015 must be voted, and then time will move forward and the budget will be met. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-296	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, unfortunately, I can no longer speak, because I closed the debate before the closing. However, I would like to inform you that the decision to make a summary amendment will take place between tomorrow's decisions. Next up is the 2005 CLXIV on trade. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment of the Act to ensure fair market conduct in relation to the operation of undertakings. The submission is T/2086. Report from the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/2086/2. The number was available and accessible to all of them on the network. The Commission's amendment, which concluded no detailed debate, was not submitted to the present proposal, nor was it initiated by the Committee on Legislative Affairs. I will now ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak at the beginning of the debate. [[For signal:]] No. In this case, you will have a ten-minute time frame for the closing. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. First, the written speeches will take place, and first of all, I will address Kristóf Szatmáry, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-297	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are in such an interesting situation that, although it is quite serious in the general debate of the bill, I believe that there has been a debate, essentially due to misunderstandings, whether there is a need for a more comprehensive regulation of the retail sector in Hungary, or what its consequences may be, there is no fundamental disagreement in the debate between the government and the opposition; in some respects, it can be said that the arguments and proposals concerning the regulation of the Hungarian retail trade, the definition of the category of hypermarkets, discount rates or small shops, the definition of abuse of dominant positions in the field of operation and the treatment of losses of companies in the sector have, in many ways, shown unity in Parliament. I trust, by the way, that several factions will be able to vote in favour of the proposal that has been tabled, which, I think, is of great importance, and that its 20-25-year-old debt will be tried by the Hungarian legislation to create a market balance of trade, so they will be able to support it. I trust him only because, in essence, there was no serious amendment to the proposal. I was able to conclude, or was able to conclude, that basically with the aim of the law, that we are trying to steer those large international chains towards taxation in Hungary, and the small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, the thousands of independent shops, the chain-based small and medium-sized enterprises, who live in the trade market and who are trying to put in position, are trying to relieve them of the pressure of large competitors, which seem to be almost monopoly, in part, as far as possible, within the framework of the Union, that these proposals also benefit from the support of a large number of parliamentary parties. Let us be aware of this, that there is essentially no proposal to amend it. That is why I ask the Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is no coincidence that Kristóf Szatmáry, ex-Secretary of State, who has not yet dared to bring in this law himself, even though, as you can see, he would have liked it... - because this proposal is actually incorrigible. This is a harsh intervention into the functioning of the market, and with this step, customers will suffer badly. This will result in price increases sooner or later. In addition to the sound of its aim to protect the domestic owners and the small ones, analysts believe that Coop, Real and CBA may have a competitive advantage. CBA does not need to be presented either in the Hungarian Parliament or elsewhere, where it is oriented, or is oriented to Fidesz. But it may not be right for the government or a political trend to put such an intervention into the market, along with popular ideas. In the government's view, the proposal is necessary because they believe that large supermarket chains are able to keep prices low even with loss-making operations, thus pushing small domestic shops out of the market. Therefore, it is proposed that companies with turnover exceeding HUF 50 billion per year should not continue to retail daily consumer goods, i.e. they cannot sell daily consumer goods if they close with losses in two consecutive years. [[19.10]] However, this step goes against all competition-neutral rules. And the proposal also does not specify whether they would examine the reasons for the loss of information. I have already explained that, as a result of economic processes, even in times of crisis, large stores can be loss-making, and this proposal completely ignores it. However, it is not understandable why the newly created hypermarket or discount chain is exempted from the obligation to operate profitablely for four years. So this is already an internal contradiction to this bill, which is therefore opposed by the MSZP. As a result of these steps, investments may be missed if the draft is adopted. You're using the so-called mall stop, of course you've given us more relief from it, but you've put it out of the country to build a store! A table, thousands of job expansions have been missed, according to expert estimates. Currently, the large supermarket chains employ thousands of people, and the employees will be the first to feel these restrictions stemming from the regulation. So, in comparison with this proposal - although I know, Mr President, it does not belong closely to the agenda - with the requirement to keep it closed on Sunday, an intervention in the market that is ultimately affected by customers, consumers, i.e. we, due to higher prices and lower availability. The next one, who suffers, is the thousands of workers who see their work at risk, which there is no guarantee that their work will be needed in the six days. So, Congressman, do not think that this regulation, beyond what you are doing in the interests of a well-defined, supportive circle, is in the interest of the customers, so in a broader sense, of the Hungarian people. This leads to a rise in prices and a decrease in service. In particular, if we add that you also levy a 6-percent supervisory fee on certain foods, which is also estimated to represent one-third of the turnover, in order to improve quality. This over 27 percent is another 6 percent fee that you say is not a sales tax, but it is a tax, but it will still have to be paid, and yet it will raise a price. So we see that these actions are not in the interests of consumers, they are in the interest of reorganising the market, and ultimately will result in a deterioration of the quality, quality and price level of supply. For all of this, we do not support this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-301	Mr President, Dear House, We are at the end of a debate on a proposal, and I think that this can be called a debate for an exception, which is good at its core point of view. So the realization that Jobbik has been saying here since 2010 is that thousands of billions of HUF of capital every year, without paying the tax concerned and the tax producing it, is a good point. Therefore, these incomes must be taxed, and they must be subject to public burdens. However, the solution proposal that lies before us is not bad, but does not bring us closer to this goal. It is not possible to establish clearly the market effects, but there is plenty of predictions to be made about it, since it is quite certain that after two years of loss, it would shut me down, not more precisely, but would prevent various food products and others from being marketed by the government in the case of certain units of production, and that this huge burden of a thousand billion will not be included in public burdens; no more taxes will be paid; the revenue side of the budget will not swell. However, perhaps a network owned by Hungary or even operating in a franchise system will have certain advantages. My other problem with this is what happens when CBA is rewarded with various extra benefits plus market positions. I must tell you that Parliament had a consumer protection committee. It could have worked as a very successful committee if it had not been abolished for this parliamentary term. Based on the announcements of this Consumer Protection Committee and the requests received here and partly outside the private channel, it can be said that at least as many consumer protection concerns have been raised by suppliers, Hungarian small business operators, producers and buyers in the case of the multi-chains proposed by Jobbik from the outset. And that's no different now, why would we change our minds? But we have to say that the abuse of CBA-related suppliers is on an amazing scale, and they have an amazing rough spectrum. Although the so-called shelving money is already in decline, and the multi-chains are also trying to burden suppliers and Hungarian entrepreneurs with other alternative means, the CBA was unfortunately in the forefront of this competition. And I would very much like for a successful Hungarian network to work, not at all close to my heart the foreign networks that are here in Hungary. So if one of the political forces is one, Jobbik is certain that it cannot be accused of protecting these multi-networks, but however; this huge mass exported under the heading of the lease of the IT system must be subject to taxation at any cost to thousands of billions of unreasonably exported management fees, manufacturing technology. But you can't do that. And we have to say, from 0.1 per cent to 6 per cent scale now, the charge that will burden certain chains - also rightly - will hit consumers and customers alone if they do not put any mechanisms to prevent the inclusion of these products in the price of services. The same will happen to them as in the case of transaction fees in financial institutions, the same will happen to a large part of the telecoms special tax in the case of telecommunications services. So you seem to account for the banks, the multinationals, everyone on your billboards, but in reality, the Hungarian people are paying again, and we see no mechanism to prevent this. So, according to our proposal, the legal climate should be transformed into such a way that Hungarian producers, Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian buyers can be placed in a position that is at least as important. And in addition to the legal climate, let's also talk about the fact that so far there has been a Nebih, which has been able to carry out new market controls from its penalties and revenues, and has been able to start a wide-ranging raid if necessary. There was a very successful right-wing amendment, which went to a miracle in the previous cycle, and we were able to increase the maximum penalty for foreign food chains by almost ten times. The problem is that they didn't really live with it, and where they lived with a financial fine, in many cases the workers were struck again. So it is also necessary to put the legal climate in order to burden not the entrepreneur, not the supplier, not the Hungarian citizen, not the customer over and over again. But in this case, what did the government do? He said that the proceeds from the fine no longer belong to this organisation, that it can no longer finance market controls, that it should enter into the budget, that the revenue side should be sullied; and that the government or the government of Hungary will give this organisation some operation through the budget, which we do not know how much. Now we see it in 2015, but how do we know how much in 16 or 17 or after a change of government will get to an organization that had previously been able to move on its own scale, and can now become controlled and manually controlled? It can be seen, then, that the steps of the government are not parallel, but sometimes they are facing themselves. And in a very amazing way, a very good problem recognition seems to be developing a completely impossible action plan. It is not apparent from this proposal how these foreign networks can be forced to pay more taxes. They're gonna do that, and then they're gonna show some little bit of profit, and I'm gonna say it again, out of the thousand billionaires, so a huge crowd, or the background, they're gonna agree with you how much you have to drip into the budget in order not to be destroyed, and then they're gonna liquefy and modify their own proposal. How many times has this happened in other economic sectors? This government has sunk to the point that, under the heading of the settlement policy, simply to obtain a few ten billion forints on the revenue side of the budget, it is handing out Hungarian residence permits for money. And that's a real shame, yes. Here, too, we see that by all means, only an increase in the revenue side of the budget can be considered. The aspect would be that Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian products should be placed in the position, and the interests of Hungarian customers should not be harmed. None of these are guaranteed by this proposal. Once again, I can support the basic recognition and the intention behind it, but I cannot support the attempt to implement it in this form. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2014-12-08-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the MSZP Group, Mr Nándor Gúr. [[19.20]]
u2014-12-08-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make three simple points. In fact, on the basis of both my colleague Józsa's reasoning and the foregoing, the elimination of the possibility of, as an example, of not being closely related, but still related, of the destruction of labour control offices, which carried out checks with other authorities, basically means that things that could be an opportunity for improvement could remain unexplored, even in a positive direction within the framework of this law. The point is that, if you think about it, Hungary today has the highest number of violations in virtually three areas: construction, commerce and catering, and not only infringements from the labour law side, but also other types. In this sense, the elimination, dismembering of these institutional systems creates a series of problems and problems. The other thing that I would like to draw attention to is that there are probably not too many amendments, is that Kristóf Szatmáry does not meet them, because the bill itself is not worthy of it in this sense, even through proposals that amend it, which are incorrigible, practically impossible. I also have to add that I do not claim, just ask or assume that it is appropriate to bring draft laws to the walls of the House which, where appropriate, propose a legislative amendment concerning the partial surfaces of politics, including the surface of the government, in relation to the circle of supporters. Is it not, in itself, a suspicion of corruption that such measures are being taken or that such measures are being taken? The third thing is that, if we are talking about the issues at the level of trade, then what is now taking place in recent weeks and months, whether the fixing of food inspection fees and many other things, clearly all have a damaging effect on consumers, since we have all learned from the experience of the past four years that the rates for separate taxes and this type of supervision fee, for investigations in the context of various food safety measures, are all relevant factors for prices, which the consumer pays. You may refuse, you may say otherwise, but life has proved that this is how it works for many of the past years. In this sense, this bill is unmanageable to me in itself, so I do not recommend this support to even the pro-government representatives within the walls of Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-304	Thank you very much. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is coming from the LMP Group.
u2014-12-08-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleague Satmary, As a result of your own work, consider that when I came into the general debate, I sat down here with the whole proposal that this was a proposal to support a circle of friends, and in the general debate and the subsequent reflection, I saw the legitimate background that the problem raised was largely justified. The fact that it is about supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses, the fact that it wants to promote fair market behaviour only seemed to be the usual frosting, and it gave the impression most of it, but, looking more closely, we have to admit that there really is a tax avoidance effort for large companies that needs to be dealt with. We acknowledge the suggestion, the problem of finding a solution so that no one can abuse their market situation, avoid being able to avoid paying corporate tax with their international relations, and, after very high turnover, create a substantial tax revenue for the Hungarian government. I trust that Mr President does not consider it a violation of the dignity of this House if I quote Jimmy Fülig, because, as it is not possible to put a traffic cop on the side of every slap, I do not think that it is possible to amend or legislate for all tax evasion, but to create a background for creating a lasting solution within the current institutional system, within the walls of the NAV. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, has already said that if he were to lead such a thing, then how can we avoid this tax problem with a small profit, how can we reduce it to less than 50 billion, perhaps with a division. So, overall, our concern is that this legislation will not serve the purpose of actually collecting the tax that they can rightly demand for such traffic. At the same time, it is also a problem that there are different trade chains where this phenomenon of not paying corporate tax is seen to be different. There are places where we think it can be shown that they are actually fleeing the profit and are really seeking tax evasion. However, there is also an example that the company has developed in the last two years at such a pace that it has opened up so many new businesses that the development has given rise to the fact that it has not been able to show any profit. For this reason, a single regulation, in our view, may not be able to serve the overall objective that Mr Satmary said in his introduction. Overall, we consider the direction that would help small and medium-sized enterprises, the opening of family businesses, to bring them into this position to be supported. We support the government's direction that the corporate tax on large trade chains with a turnover of over 50 billion has to be collected, after real traffic and after real profits, the tax has to be paid somehow and tax avoidance prevented. However, we have not tabled any amendments because we believe that we need a more comprehensive regulation of this, the loopholes that my colleague Dániel Z. Kárpát spoke about, to prevent, to think about, what solutions would be, rather than to create ad hoc legislation for this with a hasty legislative process. Overall, unlike the impressions expressed in the previous general debate, we would not say no to this with a calm conscience, because we can agree with the goals, and therefore our group's position is likely to be one abstention, because we can agree with the government's goals, but we do not see the means to achieve the government's objective, which the Member has set out, by means of this legislative amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-306	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's time for Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-307	Thank you very much, very briefly. I would remove the doubt that anyone would think that this law would solve the problem of Hungarian trade once and for all. With a bill, the 20-year lag and the situation that unfortunately can only mean conservation today will not be solved. However, I would make it clear, and I say this to my fellow Member, Józsa, that anyone who disagrees with at least the direction of this bill will do nothing but promote tax evasion or can say that tax evasion is tax evasion. This has also been said in the general debate. The five major chains in Hungary, based on last year's public data, with a turnover of 1500 billion - with a turnover of 1500 billion! - minus 20 billion forints in losses. This is a joke! Anyone who knows trade, precisely in view of the fact that no major investments were made, on this basis they should be happy for Sunday, they told me funnyly, because at least they wouldn't make any losses. The point is that these profits are not shown in Hungary. At least this bill gives us the opportunity to try to steer large companies in a positive tax direction. I fully agree that there will be loopholes, there may be loopholes, but I think that this will require a continuous follow-up for the government and the legislators. We're gonna make a rule, we're gonna try to steer the market, and in the meantime, we're gonna see how they're gonna react. Here is a two-year transitional period, so companies have two years to try to comply with these provisions. There's been a lot of talk here. I believe that this will not eliminate jobs in trade. If you know the numbers: between 2000 and 2010, 50,000 jobs were lost in trade because of a drastic increase in the participation of large chains. This proposal is precisely about protecting, so I ask you to support it. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr István Józsa. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-309	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to put an end to the doubts that have been raised by Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry. Our problem with him is not that the government wants to fight tax evasion. We have made a number of proposals for this. My problem, which I said in my comments in the general debate earlier, is that it is not being examined why a company is losing money. So what you set as a fundamental goal - and we agree that tax evasion should be limited, even in the trading chains everywhere - is not dealt with. [[19.30]] So it brings me a rule carved out with a small axe, which makes it seem that for your supporters, it looks good, and it doesn't show others the framework for what the government thinks about avoiding tax evasion. So, in our view, we would have needed a more detailed analysis and a more nuanced tax regulation. You're using a guillotine to poof, I'm going to cut off your activity if this and this and you're not really telling me what this is. So our problem is precisely the inadequacy of this regulation. He may be targeting something, but he's not making rules for it as far as we're concerned. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-08-310	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State, if you'd like to say the closing word. Yeah. I'll give you the floor in a ten-minute time frame.
u2014-12-08-311	Thank you, Mr. President. This is not really a shut-in, but I would just like to note that, after there was no amendment to the bill, which is quite rare in the life of Parliament, there was a new, small general debate here. In this, however, I do not want to repeat the Government's position, as we said in the general debate, no more or less, so it continues to hold on. Thank you very much for the factions' position. We hope that, in addition to the pro-government factions, opposition groups will be able to vote in favour of this bill, as many of its positive elements have been emphasised here in the debate. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-312	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on insurance and insurance legislation and the summary amendment proposal are now under discussion. The submission is T/1760. and the report by the designated Economic Committee on a detailed discussion by T/1760/4. was available or available on the network. T/1760/6. and the summary report is T/1760/7. Also available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-313	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Legislative Committee discussed T/1760 on 27 November 2014. On 4 December 2014, the Commission presented a proposal for an amendment and a summary report on insurance and insurance activities with 22 votes in favour and 8 abstentions, i.e. without voting against. The summary amendment contains most of the amendment proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the legislative committee's own motion. The amendments contained in the proposal contain, in particular, codification and other clarification provisions in order to ensure the internal consistency of the bill with regard to both terminology and content issues. Of these, perhaps the most significant and most important is the fact that the title of the bill is also changing. The reason for this is to eliminate legal uncertainty in the 2003 LX on insurance and insurance activities. a transitional period between law and the entry into force of the new Act on Insurance Activities. Among the substantive changes, I would like to point out that, in addition to insurance undertakings, the amendment also includes reinsurance undertakings, as the new law also includes rules on reinsurance undertakings. In addition, the Committee considered it necessary to define clearly the responsibility of the multiple agent, including as an insurance intermediary in relation to the full function of the insurance intermediary, separately from the insurance undertaking. The multiple agent is also entitled to convey the different products of insurance companies. In view of this, it is appropriate to maintain an independent responsibility both from a consumer and customer protection point of view, in order to compensate for the damage caused to customers during the marketing process and to ensure uniform application of the law. Overall, the bill aims to create a new and modern insurance law. It achieves two essential goals. On the one hand, Solvency II, on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance It complies with the transposition of the directive and, on the other hand, modernises certain elements of the existing domestic legislation. Modernisation also includes the development of the domestic legislative environment through accumulated market and supervisory experience and the exploitation of the experience of the financial crisis. As I mentioned in my introduction, the Legislative Committee also adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report submitted in the bill without voting against. This shows that my fellow Members, this House, can wholeheartedly support the bill, and I would therefore ask this House, my fellow Members, to support the adoption of the bill with their votes. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-314	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now. [[András Tállai: Yes.]] Yes, I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State. I would like to inform you that the same ten-minute framework condition has been met in this debate as in the past.
u2014-12-08-315	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In conclusion of the proposal on the agenda, allow me to summarise the most important amendments to the bill. Several amendments were tabled in the debate on a cross-cutting basis, with a number of clarifications and proposals to assist in the application of the law, supported by the government. Allow me to present to you the most important amendments below. Dear House, In Parliament's decision-making, one of the most important changes in the bill is that in the case of insurers, the rules for complaint handling have been extended, thus better adapted to the requirements of consumer protection legislation and more effective protection for customers when dealing with their complaints. In the case of multiple agents and brokers, however, it is justified to regulate complaint handling activities with differences, with certain facilitations, in line with the nature of their activities. The proposed amendment takes into account the fact that a significant number of Hungarian-owned micro-enterprises operate as multiple agents or brokers. In their case, it would be unjustified to use the contact point responsible for consumer protection matters, would result in a significant administrative burden and could hinder the development of these undertakings. Dear Parliament, The rules on the liability of multiple agents have been amended in the decision-making process. The insurance undertaking's responsibility for the multiple agent remains with regard to its activities related to the product and the sponsor insurance undertaking, but given that the multiple agent is also entitled to convey competing products of insurance undertakings, it is appropriate to maintain the liability of the multiple agent in certain cases in order to compensate for damages to customers and to facilitate uniform application of the law. The enforcement of victims would result in a difficulty of proof and ultimately an obstacle to enforcement of claims if the agent failed to comply directly with the sponsor's insurance policy. In this context, the liability insurance obligation of the multiple agent is imposed to cover the damage caused by the multiple agent in the event of a default not directly linked to the sponsor's insurance undertaking. [[19.40]] Dear House, A number of transitional rules have been amended and transferred to the current Insurance Act in order to ensure the preparation of insurance companies and the Hungarian National Bank during the transitional period that the new Solvency II is being introduced throughout the Union. the transition to the system and avoid legal uncertainty about the existing Bit. and the rules of the new law. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation, and I would like to ask you to support the bill, together with the amendments supported by the Government. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-08-316	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll inform you that you'll have six minutes and 47 seconds to say the closing word. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First from the Fidesz Group is Mr Kristóf Szatmáry. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-317	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am in a lucky position today, because, as the speakers before me have mentioned, this bill is also a proposal which, I trust, will basically go through consensus; even because, although it has great goals in its scope and purpose, it has a new code of the whole insurance market, but it praises the good preparation that all the professional organisations support the proposal. In fact, they also support the amendments that we have before us. I've had the pleasure of consulting with them. For example, in the proposal submitted, the regulation of complaint handling which is important for consumer protection is similar to that of other consumer protection laws, a more favourable modification of telephone and other administration to consumers, and the determination of the responsibility of the multiple agent is also supported by all relevant actors. We can trust that a proposal that brings more predictable, better conditions in the insurance market for both the wallet and the profession and for the main Hungarian citizens with millions of insurance insurance can be adopted by consensus. That is why we are asking for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-08-318	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Józsa's speech is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill, and its negotiation, I think, is a refreshing exception during the five-year anniversary of Fidesz, because we can also observe two good processes. On the one hand, I am talking about the European Union with whom you are fighting for freedom, which seems to be a success for you in this Insurance Act. But, thank God, they recognized the importance of listening to professional organisations, this is another refreshing exception that they spoke to professional organisations and, in cooperation with them, brought not only the proposal, but also the amendments, to the House and presented it. I would like to demonstrate that the opposition is not only always critical, but what is good is also able to talk about it in the Hungarian Parliament. So it is very forward-looking to say such words after many of your negative examples, either to regulate the previous retail practice, in our view it is right, but in practice, following the wrong solutions. An example could be that when, following a global financial crisis, European professional organisations, the European Union worked hard to develop Solvency II. a package of laws concerning the comprehensive regulation of insurance activities, both in the interests of insurance undertakings and of very significant financial institutions, and of a very large number of insured persons, has been presented to the House with a bill which I myself have basically acknowledged in the general debate. At the same time, as a positive point, I can now say that, following the discussions of the Legislative Committee, the weaker elements that were in the consumer protection section and which we have criticised in the past have slightly improved as a result of the amendments. The rules of complaint handling have been strengthened, and we also find it particularly useful to regulate more precisely the activities of multiple agents, intermediaries. It is true that thousands of domestic micro and small enterprises are active in this area, and it is appropriate, precisely to provide consumers with a more guaranteed service, to formulate their own responsibilities in the context of the amendments, to define and regulate this. I very much hope that the opinion of professional organisations will apply to other legislative proposals. You do not have to follow the attitude to assume that professional organisations are defending their own interests in an unintelligible and biased way. Some interest groups around the Fidesz government - I do not want to mention the CBA again now, because there may be others - may be one-sided lobbying for their own interests, but there are also professional organisations that have sufficient responsibilities to carry out their activities, to understand the whole functioning of the professional sector, and to recognise that the protection of their own activities cannot be imagined without the entire insurance business being well, reliably and stable. If there is any experience of the financial crisis that began in 2008, perhaps this is precisely that in the financial field, if confidence is shaken, if consumer confidence is shaken, a company, an organisation, or, let's say, a financial industry, there can be extremely far-reaching consequences. Here it is absolutely true that the expectation of mass becoming, the anxiety of mass becoming, is self-confirmed and can lead to extremely serious consequences. So if a regulation can achieve a strengthening of trust and, in this case, we see that the new insurance law has the chance - that is why we support it - it is for everyone's benefit. So I think that this enlightened attitude, which, in contrast to the fight for freedom with the European Union, means the adoption of EU legislation and the consideration of the substantive attitude of national professional organisations, has led to a good presentation and a good amendment as it stands. We would like to draw the attention of the government and the majority of governments, as they mentioned in the presentation, to the experience of the crisis and to the experience of domestic control, so that they do not stop. This regulation is on its way, there is a chance that it will be better than it was before, but we also believe that the experience of this will have to be reviewed in a year's time. I ask that, if, in the course of the operation of the optimized regulation, there are cases of controls that may further strengthen consumer protection, they should be open to further strengthening consumer protection in the framework of this legislative regulation in the course of a year-and-a-half review. With these, the MSZP faction supports the adoption of the proposal. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-320	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The bill is indeed a large, large bill. However, I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members immediately to a problem and, by the way, I will try to outline a problem that is forward-looking for legislation, which has already been mentioned in other respects, because immediately at the very beginning there was a big problem and a big detail that I think should have immediately brought to the attention of the legislators. [[19.50]] It was only at first reading that 200 pages of legislation had already been seen by everyone at the time that, overall, only its title did not fit. So we have been able to submit legislation whose title has been written completely contrary to the legislation in force. Of course, this error has been corrected, but it was only after a long question that it turned out to be the problem after all. I think that we need a more calm, more prudent legislation than that. By the way, several of us in the Legislative Committee have noted this from all sides. Moreover, such criticism has already been received by the pro-government representatives to the legislators, so that legislative proposals can be brought to the Legislative Committee in a well-founded or thorough manner, or even to the general debate. When we didn't see this in the general debate, I think we all, who were sitting here, made a mistake noticing that. But it is also interesting that we did not even notice that the 200-page legislation had received a 110-page legislative amendment, which gave a steady list of amendments that had to be carried through in two hundred and so many points. This was perhaps the only amendment to the Legislative Committee, and the Economic Commission had at least the same scope. Overall, although we are talking about a large piece of legislation, I think we have been a bit hasty in our work and we have witnessed it. In addition to all that was said about the legislation, the bill, they were correct. It does indeed have forward-looking elements, it really keeps up with the accelerated world, because since the old law, it has certainly had to keep pace with EU legislation, EU legislation and the development of the insurance market. Here, perhaps, we should continue to assess, and perhaps in this we will be able to move forward, that we have also made progress with the Ministerial Commissioner on the side of the executive chamber. It might also be worth setting up a ministerial commissioner's institution for insurance companies at a level that could, for example, detect errors in certain insurance products and their harmful effects on consumers. I would mark only one such area, so to speak, the area of legal protection insurance. My heart's pulling home. From a lawyer's point of view, I believe that these rights protection services also contain unfair services to them at some level. In this respect, I would pay attention to it in any way, since they want to give it as an attractive product as an insurance product, and often give it properties that are more favourable than, by the way, similar activities of the profession of lawyer, and in any case result in a distortion of competition. What insurance companies refer to is often not based on well-founded statistics, as we remember a practice where it was possible to prevent a person from being rescued from situations such as violations from which no one can be rescued otherwise, since there was liability after that. Therefore, in order to reduce such practices, of course, paying attention to how insurance companies and insurance activities and products will change on the basis of this legislation, it will be necessary to rethink from a maximum of two years to what other institutions can actually make the insurance market and products safe and consumer-friendly, since this is perhaps the most important thing to do is to be consumer-friendly, but also sufficiently consumer-protected. I believe that the government has bought it. We would also like to use improved criticism of legislation. These came not only from the opposition parties, but also from your pro-government representatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-322	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, the notary of the Parliament, is coming. Here you go.
u2014-12-08-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Although the more than 200 - page bill itself is quite professional, it is about things that affect our everyday life and a wide crowd. One of the importance of the bill is that it provides for wider information to be provided to consumers prior to the conclusion of the contract for insurers and also makes the interests of those involved in the sale of insurance more transparent. The supervision of cross-border financial groups can also be seen as a positive feature. It is also possible to support the fact that the plan divides insurance companies into small insurance companies, those below HUF 300 million and those above. Although general operation, part of that financial security, is carefully described by the new Insurance Act, essentially following EU legislation, but there is no tightening of claims deadlines, which is one of the urgent tasks when we make legislation on customer-friendliness of insurance services. Claims settlement cases should be speeded up because it is unworthy to sue for years after an insurance event in order to obtain legitimate compensation. A major problem, which the Economic Committee's summary amendment does not state, is that every year there are modest estimates of 30,000 accidents at work in the country, to which we can safely add at least 20,000 more occupational diseases. In these cases, employers have full, objective liability, with regard to which all damage should be reimbursed to the employee and the social security system. However, employers without liability insurance pay only in the rarest cases, thus ruining the lives of tens of thousands of families, and it is estimated that they will spend more than HUF 100 billion a year on the budget. Currently, only 5-10 percent of employers have liability insurance. The rest won't pay anything, or you'll only pay after the lawsuit if you don't get charged by then. Typically, only larger companies have liability insurance. Obviously, a large company, and if it is a foreigner, does not want problems in the future, so it places great emphasis on prevention. You have a prepared legal and expert team, the first thing you need to do is get full liability insurance. On the other hand, however difficult it is to face, the Hungarian SME sector, respect for the exception, does not pay attention to this issue, even though the number of accidents is the largest. Most lawsuits take place in their midst, and in their midst, the majority of liquidations begin. It would therefore be particularly important to create conditions that would encourage the spread of liability insurance among small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. In addition to our sense of absence, we also make some specific criticisms. As regards the protection of secrets, the proposal opens up a wide range of bodies and persons who can learn about our often sensitive personal data, such as health data. Although it introduces a restriction, we believe that further strengthening of data protection is necessary in this area. The other one, which we see as a restriction on consumer protection rather than a strengthening of it, is that they narrow down the potential range of those initiating the liquidation of companies. It is proposed that we expand this circle and give back the right to initiate liquidation to civil society organisations for consumer protection. Having considered all this and given that in the draft legislation, professional organisations have not found a point that would be completely rejected, and the majority of the content of the proposal is agreed by the May Other Policy, we can support the adoption of the law taking into account the changes to consumer protection. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-08-324	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I am now going to ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if you wish to take advantage of what has been said in this debate. [[For signal:]] No. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain financial legislation to the deposit guarantee scheme and the financial intermediary system are now under discussion and the summary amendment proposal. The submission was made in T/1996. and the report by the designated Economic Committee on a detailed discussion is T/1996/5. is available on the network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1996/7. and the summary report is T/1996/8. can be found on the website. [[20.00]] First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee, for the presentation of the rapporteur's opinion; I give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. Thank you very much. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2014-12-08-325	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 4 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed T/1996 on the amendment of certain financial laws to the deposit guarantee scheme and the financial intermediary system. Bill No. 1. This proposal has been submitted with the aim of amending the Capital Markets Act, the Investment Business and Stock Exchange Providers Act, the Rules for Activities they can carry out and the Collective Investment Forms and Managers and the Act amending certain financial instruments in order to increase the efficiency of capital market regulation. In this context, the provisions amending the listed laws are also intended to ensure compliance with the EU legislation which largely determines the domestic regulation of the capital market sector. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the eight-point amendment proposed by the Economic Committee, the first point of which was unanimously supported by our committee. The remaining seven points were supported by the Committee with 21 yes, 7 no and 4 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to make further technical and grammatical amendments. The members voted separately on these points, which were supported with 21 yes, 7 no and 5 abstentions. The Committee adopted the summary amendment proposal and the summary report with 20 yes, 7 no and 5 abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-08-326	Thank you very much, Congressman Salacz. To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP.
u2014-12-08-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the debate in the Legislative Committee, I would like to highlight two amendments, which have been discussed both before the Economic Committee and before the Legislative Committee. One, which was accepted by the Economic Committee and submitted by the MSZP fraction, is the 19th bill. It concerned §8 of the Act on the Capital Markets, which, in our view, would have narrowed the scope of insiders under the Capital Markets Act to an excessive extent. Our proposal to correct this error was accepted by the Economic Committee, so it was included in the list of summarised amendments, and because we were able to vote on it separately in the Legislative Committee, this amendment could be supported by the representatives of the MSZP. We also had another amendment, which we tabled, and this was about ensuring that the provisions under which local authorities making securities publicly available should remain in force at least annually to facilitate transparent operation and market confidence in the operation of local authorities, should inform the public and supervision of the main developments in their income situation. For similar reasons, we considered and consider it necessary to maintain the reporting obligation for issuers of debt securities with a nominal value of at least EUR 50 thousand if certain conditions are met. However, this amendment was not supported by the majority of the Legislative Committee. I will give the general opinion on the law in the debate. This is what I wanted to say about the detailed debate of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-08-328	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I would like to point out to Mr State Secretary that he has a time frame of ten minutes for his speech in the debate and the presentation of the possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-08-329	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The regulation of credit institutions and capital markets is an important issue, especially when it has consumer protection aspects. However, deposit guarantee has basic consumer protection content, so we welcome the active participation of Members in the general and detailed debate. The main line of the bill is to further modernise the regulation of deposit guarantee, thus introducing new rules for credit institutions. The proposal also contains standards for the capital market sector, which are due to changes in EU rules. Accordingly, the proposed amendments concern both areas. The majority of the amendments are precise in nature and serve clear interpretation and application of the law. By adopting amendments supported by the government, technical amendments to the Capital Markets Act, the collective investment instruments Act, are limited to the domestic possibilities of investment fund managers in third countries, as this is the way in which the same level of assessment is established. Some of the amendments to the functioning of the Financial Conciliation Board, supported by the Government, lay down general procedural rules. For example, the institution of a procedural break will be introduced. It will be possible for the panel to obtain an expert opinion. In cases of low cause, the panel does not act in a three-member council, but in a simplified decision-making process. The other part of the amendments to the financial conciliation body is expected to be necessary due to a temporary nature due to a large number of consumer proceedings due to the accounts for loans. To this end, longer deadlines will be set on a temporary basis, but they will not substantially affect the rapid conduct of the procedure, but will focus on the interests of consumers. Among the amendments, it is important to highlight the proposal for an amendment concerning the regulation of deposit guarantee. The bill also extends the application of deposit guarantee to deposits from smaller local authorities. According to the amendment tabled to the proposal, the deposit guarantee also covers deposits and payment accounts of the budgetary body founded by local authorities. With regard to the new rules on deposit guarantee, I would like to stress that, unlike the main rule, the provisions will enter into force not on 1 January 2015 but only on 3 July 2015. The deadline for transposition of the new EU Deposit Guarantee Directive is today. Contrary to what has been said in the general debate, the bill was not submitted to increase the deposit guarantee fee. In order to establish the deposit guarantee fee for credit institutions for 2015, the rules in force still apply. The current increase in fees for 2015 could be considered as a temporary condition, since this year OBA had to compensate the depositors of several savings cooperatives. However, to achieve the target level for the OBA's assets, the bill provides ten years. Therefore, the rate that has now been set can be reduced after a short, slightly strong upload period, in particular with regard to the fact that the resolution procedure and the Resolution Fund have been available as a safeguard line since the summer of this year. Overall, the new rules on deposit guarantee are intended to strengthen the deposit guarantee institution and thus increase the protection of depositors. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation. I urge you to support the Government-supported amendment and the entire bill. Thank you. [[20.10]]
u2014-12-08-330	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate you will have 5 minutes 32 seconds to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to the speaker, Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP.
u2014-12-08-331	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned in the presentation of the minority opinion, I would like to say a few thoughts about the law in general. The proposed amendment to comply with the legal harmonisation obligation is eligible, but it is noteworthy that the amendment to the law on the basis of which the resolution authority measure taken during the resolution procedure or the company decision taken under the obligation of the resolution authority or the contract concluded for the implementation of the company decision does not affect the rights and obligations of the author third parties if the court annuls or alters the resolution authority or the institution's decision. A new element in the amendment is that it also covers the company decision, and it also applies to the change by the court. In view of the fact that the Government has repeatedly stated its intention to achieve a change in the ownership structure of the domestic banking sector by state means, and given the fact that in recent weeks the Hungarian National Bank as a resolution authority has acted on several occasions, the Orbán government will be able to protect the ownership structure it intends to produce, even if compensation from the taxpayers' money would later have to be paid for the unlawful resolution authority's measure. The issue of operating expenditure may also be covered by the revenue of the resolution fund, since the amounts in the resolution fund can be used for costs directly related to the operation, but the bill does not provide for a detailed range of them. In view of the fact that the Fund's real objective is to capitalise on the contributions made by larger banks to organisations deemed to be supported by the government, it may also be in the interest of the government to allocate funds to other organisations, for example communication expenditure. The MSZP cannot support the adoption of the bill, despite its amendments for harmonisation and support, as we do not wish to assist in changing the ownership structure of the domestic banking sector through artificial state interventions. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]]
u2014-12-08-332	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Pigeon, Fidesz.
u2014-12-08-333	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, On 17 November 2014, T/1996. I have already spoken in the general debate on the legislative proposal No.3; the present comment would like to comment on the reports of the Legislative Committee and the Commission discussed by the Economic Committee and the summarised amendment proposal. The Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the amendments tabled by the Economic Committee to the bill before us in accordance with the house rules and submitted a proposal for an own summary amendment, specifying them and complementing them. However, there are only additions of a legal nature compared to the President's proposal and, in one case, the proposal introduces the EU Directive of the depositary14. Let me remind you of the main points of the bill. The essence of the Deposit Protection Act is that the money placed at the bank of the client with a bank deposit will be significantly safer than before. To this end, the law strengthens the National Deposit Insurance Fund and provides stronger supervisory powers through the Hungarian National Bank. The draft aligns domestic legislation with EU Directives 909 and 2010/73 and 2011/61, so it is in line with the EU legislative harmonisation implemented in this sense, which has already been mentioned several times in relation to previous agendas. In order to increase the efficiency of capital market regulation, the proposal amends CXX of 2001 on the capital market. Act CXXXVIII of 2007 on investment firms and commodity service providers and the rules for their activities. Act No XVI of 2014 on collective investment schemes and managers and amending certain laws on financial matters Law. The legislation makes it possible to secure deposits from municipalities if their annual budget does not exceed EUR 500 thousand. The bill removes the special Hungarian regulation on so-called community deposits. The proposal also provides for a transition to existing deposits and requires credit institutions to be informed of the change by 31 March 2015. In some cases, the proposal provides for compensation of up to EUR 150,000 for 3 months. It also provides that the deposits concerned are to be placed in a separate account on the basis of the depositor's relevant indication. It is easier for customers to have the current 20 working days payout deadline reduced to 7 working days. The Hungarian legislation thus takes over the provision that in what specific case the duration of the compensation may be longer. There are also changes in the rules on the provision of information to depositors, requiring insurance undertakings to provide more frequent and accurate information. In the case of the Commissioner, it will not only be possible for the Commissioner to take over the powers of the Banking Board but also to take over only part of its management. Some amendments have been tabled at the parliamentary stage of the proposal, which I would like to detail and address now. According to point 6 of the summarised amendment proposal, despite the clear regulation of the relationship between the Hungarian National Bank and the Financial Stability Board, in some cases legal uncertainty has developed, and therefore the MNB is the relevant Act 13. In its section, the Financial Stability Board shall act as a body of the Hungarian National Bank on behalf of the Hungarian National Bank. The proposal lists the impact and responsibilities of the Financial Stability Board. Point 7 of the summarised amendment deletes the original 55. Paragraph 1 which states that there is no appeal against the decision of the MNB and the Financial Stability Board and that the victim may request judicial review from the Labour Court. Based on the experience gained so far, there is no reason for the financial conciliation body to act on three-member councils in cases of relatively low cause and in cases of simpler judgment. Point 8 of the summarised amendment introduces the institution of a procedural break in accordance with general practice and also provides the financial conciliation body with an opportunity to obtain an expert resolution. On the basis of the expected number of consumer proceedings in connection with the clearing law and the forinting of foreign currency loans, it is necessary to ensure that the hearing is set at 75 days instead of the current 60 days, and 15 days instead of the current 8 days, to prepare a reply from service providers. This does not, in fact, affect the rapid conduct of the procedure. Point 9 of the summarised amendment also extends the deposit guarantee provided by the OBA, the National Deposit Insurance Fund, to deposits by local authorities if their budget is lower than the amount indicated above, than EUR 500 thousand. The proposal also extends the deposit guarantee to deposits by the budgetary body established by the local government, in view of the fact that it may be in a position to jeopardise the performance of its management tasks due to the ban on depositing with the credit institution managing its account. The other points of the summarised amendment include changes in the technical, linguistic and implementation aspects. In the light of the above, I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendment tabled to the bill and the Commission's recommendation. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-334	Thank you, Congressman Pigeon. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2014-12-08-335	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We should also mention in the debate of the committee's comprehensive amendment proposal that, in addition to complying with the law of the European Union, the bill itself seeks to change the ownership of the domestic banking system, and thus is also related to the implementation of the bad banking concept of the National Bank of Hungary. [[20.20]] Under the cover of the transposition of EU directives into the Hungarian legal order, this is actually aimed at facilitating the withdrawal of foreign subsidiary banks from Hungary and their transfer to their own interests by paying public money. This is why it is so urgent for the government to discuss this at the pace of the storm, without addressing important details, even though the European Union expects only until July 2015 to transpose the directives on the provision of bank deposits, especially those approved by the May Other Politics. We support the part of the bill that strengthens the state-sanctioned protection of bank deposits below EUR 100,000 in all circumstances. We also agree that if, in the future, the MNB detects serious problems with a credit institution or a brokerage company, it will examine whether it is appropriate to avoid the closure of that institution by means of a resolution, i.e. non-State aid, on the grounds of public interest. However, it is clear from the bill that Matolcsy intends not only to use the classic public finance resolution toolkit, but also to use other financial instruments in emergency situations to achieve its objectives. Magyar Reorganization and Demand Management Zrt. has already been established. Obviously, they're not trying to save the crooked loan-payers. According to the government's vision, the MNB will choose from project loans over HUF 500 million and real estate loans over 200 million. This state debt manager was created out of state money to take over the losses of commercial banks, the worst, non-paying, failed commercial real estate and project loans. It is planned that for 300 billion forints they would buy shady malls, hotels and luxury offices. What we're gonna do with these, nobody knows. In many cases, these improvements have never been commercially justified. Since it is a state institution, it is also created with public money and it will also buy bad loans from it. It is unacceptable for LMP to purchase commercial real estate that has fallen out of 90 percent of the available domestic funds instead of helping families in trouble who cannot pay their loans. It is equally unacceptable that they are doing this in a completely opaque way, as we have seen in the past year and a half of Mr Matolcsy's MNB leader. I don't want to list it, we all know that offshore luxury palaces, the purchase of artifacts, and so on. To sum up, the unspoken aim of the bill is yet another step towards supporting the withdrawal of foreign-owned banks by hundreds of billions, the sale of their domestic daughter banks, presumably to financial people close to Fidesz. Why would that be good for the majority of society? Well, we don't see that at all. The LMP does not support any arrangements for preparing opaque transactions, especially where they require substantial public funds or affect the country's financial reserves. Even if this happens to be wrapped in EU directives. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-08-336	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to András Tállai [[For signal:]] But he doesn't want to speak, he's told me everything, obviously. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The votes will take place at our meeting next week. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. the Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act to allow certain commercial structures, to enforce sustainability aspects, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The submission was made in T/1995. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the designated Economic Committee on the detailed discussion T/1995/7. T/1995/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1995/9. T/1995/10. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. You have 15 minutes in total, 8 minutes in total is the majority opinion. You have the floor.
u2014-12-08-337	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 4 December 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment. T/1995 amending Act T/1995 concerning the authorisation of certain commercial structures and the enforcement of sustainability aspects. Bill No. 1. This proposal has been submitted with the aim of introducing a system of authorisations which pays particular attention to the implementation of sustainable development requirements and the protection of the environment. On behalf of the opposition members of the committee, no substantive counter-proposals or amendments were made to the bill. There is only one point in the bill on which there has been some polarity, namely Article 57/C. Paragraph 1 of this Article. This paragraph deals with, I might say, a tightening up of the fact that the construction of commercial structures with a gross surface area of more than 400 square metres is subject to a separate building permit for the establishment or involvement of the existing ministerial committee, and this body acting as construction authority at first instance is a county government office designated by the law. In this context, there have been various discussions on why this is so, and it has already been said at the committee meeting - I would like to repeat this before the plenum - this is not an unprecedented procedure. This is often the case, and there have been cases that have been examples of this, when there are relatively few cases at national level that require special expertise, then this procedure has already been applied before. This point, this clause, is justified by the expected number of such constructional procedures, after requiring that expertise, the workforce, be concentrated and streamlined by the legislator. Some of this can be expected and, consequently, this available expertise needs to be concentrated in one place. By the way, I would like to add that paragraph 4 of the same section designates the government office of another county as second-degree construction authority, so it is apparent that there is no ulterior motive or abjectity in this. Indeed, the expected frequency of cases justifies this kind of regulation. At the committee meeting, the members also discussed the amendment of the Economic Committee's proposal for language and legal clarification, which was supported by 27 votes in favour and 7 against. The Committee then adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report in favour of 27 affirmative votes and 7 non-voting votes. On this basis, and on the basis of what has been said, I ask this House to support the bill with its votes. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2014-12-08-338	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP. [[20.30]]
u2014-12-08-339	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of my fellow opposition Members who have been drawn up during the debate in the Legislative Committee, several sentences, several statements, I would like to present them to the House, mutatis mutandis. In our view, this bill has, let's say, only one purpose, which represents the real goal, and this is the maintenance of the so-called mallstop. Although the legislation in force would expire at the end of the year on 31 December, this would now be resolved by the government by means of a legislative amendment, so that after 1 January 2015, a shopping mall cannot be built without a special permit. The bill provides for a reduction, let's say, of the fact that it does not set the limit in 300 square meters, but of 400 four thousand meters, so in the case of a shopping mall over 400 square meters, it is necessary to ask for a separate authorisation once again, let's say. Thus, from 1 January to build a shop or a shopping mall with more than 400 square meters or a larger floor area, a technical resolution is required. As my pro-government fellow Member has said, the head of the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County has the exclusive authority to decide on such matters as a administrative authority. A preliminary professional contribution may be requested, which may be used for one year in authorisation procedures. In this case, if the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County had already taken part in the authorisation case, the second instance would be provided by the head of the Heves County Government Office. The professional merits of the application for a building permit will be assessed by a five-member committee delegated by ministers. However, in theory, this committee only took into account a set of criteria to be defined, such as the environmental transport impact of the investment on the municipality concerned. The final word is always spoken by the head of the government office. The Committee's official opinion shall be considered only. We do not understand the point of asking this committee, let us say, to intervene, because it is either a window committee, if its opinion matters only, and if it was thought that this committee should have this decision in its hands - that is, this particular case - then why should it be decided by the head of the government office? In my view, the bill is a professional, legislative work. This is a clear proof that this regulation has only a political purpose. Moreover, this could be a very personalised legislative step. I saw that Secretary of State L. Simon doesn't understand. As I have signed up for a written comment, I will, of course, explain this in more detail there, i.e. in my comments. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-340	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr L. Simon László State Secretary if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[L. Simon László: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee and the Committee on Sustainable Development for the debate have indicated that they do not wish to present a rapporteur. To present the minority opinion formulated in the Committee on Sustainable Development, I give the floor to Mr Sallai Benedek in a three-minute timeframe.
u2014-12-08-341	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I remember correctly, the house rules are 44. In the various paragraphs of its section, perhaps it can only be the same literally, so I would like to read with your permission that I do not deviate from what was said at the committee meeting. T/1995 amending the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment. The purpose of the proposal was to prevent excessive concentrations of retail trade, with its harmful economic, social, urban and environmental negative effects. There are many good European examples of this and of the measures taken against it, from France to Denmark to Great Britain, which were listed in spring 2011 before the government turned this around. With the objectives of the legislation, the May Other is fully in agreement with the Politics, but with its tools for implementing these objectives, this draft legislation is not appropriate in our opinion. It is worth separating malls and hypermarkets, as they are two distinct groups of problems. With regard to malls, it can be said that since the clearing of traditional trade spaces, downtowns, is a problem that the malls benefit from, but the burdens of this - city rehabilitation, traffic growth and the rest - are not borne by them, so they represent an independent group of problems. Moreover, the consumer culture they represent is not sustainable. In general, they are based on consumers with higher status, higher price levels, in principle quality products, but since high capital chains make up the most shops, they have a restrictive effect on traditional trade networks. They are very energy-intensive, generate car traffic in downtown, so their construction is only acceptable in public transport nodes, such as railway stations. The main problem with hypermarkets is that they have basic consumer goods, food and so on as their main profile. This will have a restrictive effect on traditional markets and small producers that cannot produce large quantities. By their capital power, they are able to achieve a market-cleaning effect by taking action - by quoting the market-cleaner, as we mean the activity of crowding out the smaller ones - and a viable local economy cannot exist without significantly restricting hypermarkets, whether it is owned by foreign or domestic companies. They generate large car traffic, their parking space needs are high, thus having a significant negative environmental impact. At the same time, there are product groups, types of shops where large floor space and concentration are not in itself to be used, and even natural, such as the sale of construction material, timber and other large-scale goods. The above problems should be subject to a pre-defined and restrictive regulation describing environmental, economic and urban aspects, a law... - which, for some reason, is capable of allowing or refusing to allow open-ended entrepreneurs, without any conditions, and not to others, is not suitable for the establishment of a transition towards a more sustainable system and is not suitable for a competitive, fair market. The bill before us is based on the very general, consistent application of the law related to the administrative contributions... The remainder of my opinion can be found in the minutes of the Committee on Sustainable Development.
u2014-12-08-342	Feel free to read on.
u2014-12-08-343	Thank you, Mr. President. ... it is not appropriate to define it as contrary to the constitutional principle of its subordination under the administrative law, it seriously violates legal certainty, and it creates a particularly corruption-friendly regulatory environment, since it installs and maintains all powers in a single government office. It is clear that the government's efforts to create greater dependence and to strengthen government competences as much as possible are not acceptable. It is necessary to prevent unsustainable megainvestments in the environment, but this must be done without opening a loophole with viable bans and fair conditions, which do not have the key to all rights in the pocket of the municipality of Hajdú-Bihar county. The bill in its present form does more harm than use the case that it wishes to serve according to its title, so may Other Politics cannot support it in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-344	Thank you very much. But obviously this was not only the opinion of the May Other Politics, but also the opinion of the expressed Commission minority. Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Fidesz Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry.
u2014-12-08-345	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We may now be able to take part in the second debate that partly affects trade and the opinions of which in this House can be summarised in a way that, while part of the opposition, which is typically the MSZP, completely rejects the proposal, we do not think that it understands its wider social and economic context, and the other two opposition groups agree with its objectives, but do not agree with the direction of implementation or the mode of action envisaged. On the other hand, we would represent the Fidesz faction, who agree not only with its purpose but also with its method, because it has been said here that we are now holding on to the continuation of a legal institution that has been operating in the last three years, and which has tried for the first time three years before to limit the development of previously unregulated commercial facilities in Hungary in some way, in some way within a sustainable framework; this has had a number of negative consequences for Hungary, not only for trade but also for the sustainable environment. [[20.40]] After all, it is enough to look at the unpublished shops in the inner districts of Budapest, just to see the congestion that had developed around the M0 ring completely unconceptally, without regulation. Unfortunately, it must be said that the leadership of Budapest's capital city and the former left-wing governments did not in essence consider it necessary to rationally regulate the growing commercial facilities on an ever larger scale. They could have done so, since there are a number of such structures in some European countries. The receipt of these elements, whether in terms of square meters or regulation, has come before you. We are confident that we can continue an institution here, make it better - it can be said that we would basically include the earlier ban in the Hungarian legal system - which, on the one hand, is better suited to European standards and, on the other hand, the objectives that provide the sustainability of the built environment, an organic and more livable city space for Hungarian citizens, can be achieved within the framework of this bill. There are changes, of course, compared to previous regulations, but we are confident that this regulation, as it has done over the last three years, is more or less capable of achieving only its aims, but can indeed contribute positively to the creation of the built environment, sustainable development in Hungary. That is why we are asking my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-346	Thank you, Congressman Satmary. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2014-12-08-347	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I mentioned in the presentation of the opinion of the Legislative Committee on minorities, it is our view that this bill is intended solely and exclusively to maintain the malltop, according to which a request for a building permit must be submitted for the construction of malls above 400 square metres. This request is entitled to a technical committee, let's say to give an opinion or to consider it professionally. Then, after assessing this, the head of the statutory government office will then, let us say, give his blessing on this, that is to say, he will decide in a person whether a mall or a mall can be built or not. In our view, it is harmful in itself to delegate this choice to a person. We do not understand why such a professional committee should be set up. Mr Vécsey, when presenting the majority position of the Legislative Committee, said that there are reasons or reasons for this, that we do not see professionally what is the reason for this. And like I said a few times, we're politicians, so let's go political. It is very likely that there are personal reasons for this, and that is why we are saying that it can be specifically personalised legislation, because the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office is named as acting administrative authority by this bill, i.e. it delegates the right to decide whether or not a mall or a shopping mall is being built. We are living with the suspicion that Róbert Rácz is the head of the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County, and this Rácz Róbert has been told for a long time that he will be the candidate for mayor in Debrecen as the successor of Lajos Kósa, who will most likely then enjoy the confidence of the citizens of Debrecen and mayor. It didn't happen, it didn't happen, and we think that if you could say that, then he's been paid with this thing, or he's got his wages or his wages. In other words, they put the possibility of deciding whether to build a mall or a mall anywhere in the country. That is why we are saying that this is specifically a personalised legislation, and they are trying specifically to put a person in a position to do so, and they make it dependent on his decision whether anything can be built anywhere. But we've been told many times not to give you advice, and I don't want to do that either. But if I could bring your favorite shopping mall, CBA, here: if the CBA, let's say, would like to run not only shops now, but perhaps also some shopping malls, then we think that it is most likely - since this is your favorite store network - that if it were to request such a building permit, they would probably signal this to the head of the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office to allow this request to pass, let this request go. This is why we do not understand why we had to play this charade at the time, that a professional committee would take an opinion, and then the decision would be taken by the head of the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County. We think it's definitely false. Therefore, we cannot support this bill, and we do not understand the need for it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-348	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. I now give the floor to Congressman Dezső, MSZP.
u2014-12-08-349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Members Sallai and Bachelor have said their political purpose to this regulation. I'd like to approach you from a professional point of view. I have a feeling they wanted to hide this amendment in the robe of sustainability. I think this because if their real purpose had been that the various requirements of sustainability, environmental protection and climate protection played the main role, this is probably not the solution. After all, this cannot be achieved with individual solutions, subjective judgments. I think that, if it had been meant to do so, they would have laid down a very tangible, palpable technical set of requirements for the construction of such buildings; if they had, they would have set standards and not only regulated commercial facilities, but also all structures of this magnitude or of such size. That's one part of what I have to say. The other part, which may be a professional aspect, and given my qualifications or qualifications, I wouldn't dare to tell you from the county of Hajdú-Bihar that in Zala or Győr-Sopron County, let's say, a building or construction of this type of building larger than 400 square meters will be built so that I can decide what's right there. It is not by accident that decisions at local level in the public administration are of particular importance. After all, they are the ones who know about the local conditions, the traffic conditions, not just on paper, but every day, going through those relationships. They do not know the local customs, they do not know the local people, which, in my view, must play a very important role in making such a decision. I can't imagine that from the county of Hajdú-Bihar they can decide what is really right and good in Zala County and people need it. It is not necessarily just the malls that need to be thought of at this time, because when you think of a furniture store or a carpet shop, it is difficult to imagine that these will be less than 400 square meters. This will also be decided at the Government Office in the county of Hajdú-Bihar, whether such a building can be built or under what conditions it can be built at the other end of the country. The most serious thing I think is that they do not set clearly tangible requirements and standards, but that it is based on a unique, subjective decision that some structure can be built somewhere. Moreover, it contradicts the principle that you have said that administrative work must be done in a sparing manner. I can't imagine such a larger structure being given a permit without some kind of plan. I can't imagine there being no field visits. Do you travel out of Hajdú-Bihar County to any part of the country to do field visits, to coordinate with the various designers and others? I think that saving as a principle in the administration of the state with this expected decision, which you have imagined, is certainly not possible. I think that beyond the political conditions or ideas that we have heard from my two fellow Members, the profession and your ideas, which are related to the functioning of the state administration, we have been opposed. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-08-350	Thank you, Congressman Dezső Believing. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, Fidesz.
u2014-12-08-351	Thank you very much. Mr President, Our fellow member said what was also said at the committee meeting. I am very sorry for the Socialist Group, it is impossible to live in a constant climate of suspicion. There's no way that if anything happens, they're gonna live with the suspect lawsuit and they're gonna see something behind it. [[20.50]] On the other hand, what our fellow Believer has said shows that they do not know the order of the building permit procedure. When this government office acts as a first-degree building authority - read the text of the bill - it must receive a request for a building permit in the process of normal construction. The building permit application includes everything required by the construction regulations. Such an application shall be accompanied, as in any constructional process, by technical resolutions and shall be accompanied by everything necessary for the approval of an installation. When this procedure is initiated, it is completely understandable - and once again, my fellow Members, it is not necessary to look beyond all things - that they involve additional expertise from the High Authorities within a committee, as very few such building authorisation procedures are expected at national level. It is not expected from every county, every region, a small territorial unit, that this professional competence and this professional apparatus should be concentrated. If you stood up nationwide according to 19 counties and 20 such authorities with Budapest, I would risk half or more of them being without work for a year or years, since there would be no need for this process of construction in this area. It is therefore entirely justified that such an organisation should be established with national competence. I think that if the government office of any other county had received this appointment, my fellow socialists would have had any suspicions there, they would have been able to find some kind of non-existent link, a hidden link, a merger in each county. I think it is simply not necessary to take this seriously as an argument. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-352	Thank you very much, Congressman Vecsey. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2014-12-08-353	Thank you very much, Mr President, and with respect for the apologies of my fellow Members, I do not wish to abuse your patience. The LMP had such a directed initiative with the mallstop, so our party feels that this effort is on some level. Overall, after a summary debate, I must say that this direction was not so contrary to our principles, since we raised the proposal, agreed with the objectives, but disagreed with the way in which it was regulated. As a Member of good faith, I have tabled an amendment to this regulation because I wanted it not to be decided by an ad hoc independent decision-making body, but that it is at legislative level. I wanted us to simply show zero tolerance to greenfield investments. What I wanted was for the brown field, on the other hand, to re-use a hall and examine its reasonable potential for exploitation, to be able to serve something better than that it may now be unused somewhere. I wanted the environmental authority to have a greater role in licensing and to be able to better involved in their sustainability aspects. Congressman Vecsey said that there would have been many without work. This would have made it look like the government office of Hajdú-Bihar County is doing nothing but allowing malls, although the government offices obviously have other tasks. It's not a real picture, though, that we've just created a single mall authority. It is not that, we have assigned these powers to a government office, and we may have had the right to discuss how to better regulate it more comprehensively. My amendments were mainly aimed at preventing individual, subjective decisions from being made. I wanted amendments to the regulation to be adopted by the government side in order to ensure that it was possible, in any case, to consider with objective considerations, whether something is necessary or not. We have not yet governed, so I don't know what power technology is, that it is always believed by a legislator that a law must be designed so that it will always be in power. I am sure that Fidesz would also be rigidly opposed to this regulation when only the governing party's own body makes its own decisions, completely excluding a lot of other options. This is what I wanted to do with the amendment, and I wanted the governing party to feel that LMP would be able to achieve the goals that would allow retail business units, family businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises to have much more room for Hungarian trade, with what means this can be achieved. The current malls are usually owned by large capitalists, national or non-national capitalists, so they take advantage even from small and medium-sized enterprises who rent a room there and by other means. But I'm not sure that's the way it's supposed to be. Why can't it be that, in a brownfield investment, in any form of cooperative, local small and medium-sized enterprises want to do this together? Why couldn't it be that in an unused building, they want to put together local merchants and do one of these? It would not be from the devil, and even the objective that the government regularly pursues to support and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, could be helped by such an instrument. If we are to serve only the objectives of sustainability, we must also serve the goals of the local sustainable economy, in addition to environmental aspects, to put those who are also the target groups of the governing parties in words, and also to us: these are Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises. This is an authority that tells the truth from one place, a body that is practically issued by a ministerial system, a government, and has to apply subjective aspects, we do not think it is suitable for objective regulation. I wanted to create this objectivity with the amendment motion to support this proposal. In addition to rejecting these, we can only say that we could agree with the basic directions of the goals from which the idea came, but with this kind of regulation, when the government increases its own competences and tries to strengthen its own powers, it is difficult to agree. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-08-354	Thank you, Congressman. The MSZP has two minutes and 46 seconds, and two congressmen have spoken. First, Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2014-12-08-355	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Congressman Vécsey, He asked why we're always looking for the underlying motive. You know, the thing is, in the two-thirds legislative tsunami of the last few years, in this sometimes arrogant law factory, we have seen quite a lot of it when there was personalised legislation or, in fact, legislation for political purposes rather than professional legislation. Therefore, forgive us or forgive us if, for reasons of bad experience, we sometimes assume that there is a certain underlying motive, as we believe there is in this case. That's one of them. Secondly, I strongly refuse to say that we do not understand the substance of the bill. Look, I've worked in public administration for many years, too, and we know what the process and course of the building permit procedure is. We do not know and do not understand the reason why the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County had to be appointed for this purpose, as this calls into question the authority of the other 17 or 18 counties. In the other 18 counties, would you think that you would be incompetent with the construction authority authorisation procedure? So we do not understand the reason why the county of Hajdú-Bihar had to be specifically highlighted. We think that every county has the right specialists for this. Thank you.
u2014-12-08-356	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Dessert.
u2014-12-08-357	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Congressman! I don't think I have any experience in public administration, I've spent 12 years, and I know quite well that there's more than one such body in this country that might be able to assess it. There are dozens, but I also risk that there are more than a hundred who are capable of judging such an application. And think about why, over the past 140 years, this has worked perfectly in the country without having to do so. At the same time, I think you may be right about one thing: that there will not be many such applications. Because if I'm an entrepreneur, I'm going to get the hell out of here, and I'm going to find another place to invest my money, because under these circumstances, I think very few people are going to invest in Hungary. And don't just think in malls, because this applies to every building over 400 square meters, which serves commercial purposes. It's not just a mall! That's why I mentioned, for example, the furniture store or the carpet shop, but there are plenty of other shops like this. Who's going to sign up here to travel to Hajdú-Bihar County and try to handcuff you or somehow sort it out. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-358	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. [[21.00]] Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask Mr L. Simon László if he wishes to respond within a 10-minute time frame to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-359	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think even the final debate would have so much to learn. I think the force lines are clear. Once again, the socialists have demonstrated that they are in fact next to the supermarkets, the foreign owners, the large malls. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I love it so much, they always yell at me! I always listen to you. Especially you, Congresswoman, you say such beautiful and clever things. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély again intervenes.]]
u2014-12-08-360	Congresswoman, I'm warning you.
u2014-12-08-361	So the Socialists have made it clear that they are in favour of foreigners, they are in favour of the owners of the supermarket, and they are against Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. You are actually arguing not with us, but with everyone else here in Parliament, because in the first debate we heard from the better Members that they fully agree with the intention, and we have also heard from the LMPs that they fully agree with the intention; they have a problem with the solution, and so, in this form, they cannot support the solution that the government has put forward to you. But at least the original intention comes from the LMP. The bill that we adopted earlier in the previous cycle, which, until 31 December 2014, prohibited the establishment of new shopping malls over 300 square meters, came from LMP as an initiative. We had to touch the law with the expiry of this deadline on 31 December and come before Parliament with a new proposal. In fact, my fellow Member, Mr Zsolt Legény, acknowledged that the bill was intended solely for the maintenance of the mallstop, but in the context of what my fellow Member said, he said it as if it were a sin. But we don't think it's a crime, Your Honour. We believe that our duty is to support and protect small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses, the small and medium-sized Hungarian commercial sector. As we have already heard from Prime Minister on the immediate questions when you came up with the land issues. You, as you were before with the farmers and the big farms, are still with them. As they used to be in the interests of multinational companies, so they are now. That's very well drawn from today's closing debate. What's the committee for, Mr. Crewman, if the decision is made at the government office. Well, in all other cases, you are asking for professional preparation, socialization of a case, a multi-faceted approach to the government. That's exactly what this is about. We are not saying that the ministries should decide, but the leaders delegated by the ministries should put a kind of pre-decision material on the table of the government office that made the final decision. Well, that's what you're asking for in any other case. Now that we're doing this, you're saying that this is a fake committee, and you're not saying that it's actually for the preparation of an objective decision that has been made on many sides. By the way, we told you in the debate, and I told you myself in the author's exposé why we had to change the decision or why we had to take it out of the ministerial space. Why a government office? It is a government office because, in fact, there are already many large stores in Hungary. I understand that my trusted fellow Member is visiting new carpet stores and furniture shops, but where? Who? Why? In fact, people who build supermarkets don't work here. But not because, please, the Hungarian government does not want the trade to be even stronger here! It's because the country is full. We could put a sign on the border of the country to thank you very much, we do not ask for any more shops, because there is already a large grocery store on the border of every village, we hardly have to drive or drive by public transport to a large shopping mall, a hardware store, a furniture store and the others. There are plenty of commercial facilities in Hungary that serve the needs of Hungarian consumers. Where do we build new ones? In fact, the idea of my fellow Member Sallai is a legitimate point and a right direction to back up many greenfield investments to protect Hungarian agricultural land. Rather, we are rehabilitating the brown-zoned ones and, where appropriate, using them to create new industrial and commercial facilities that the country will otherwise need or need. Why the county of Hajdú-Bihar? Because, my dear fellow Crew, this is the largest county, and here is the largest government office. And you had to appoint one of the government offices. [[To interrupt Zsolt Crew.]] It's one of the biggest counties. And we didn't want this to be Pest County, by the way. Because we just want this country to stop being a waterhead. By the way, there are many areas where the second degree of authority is delegated to one of the delegated organs. I'll give you an example: in the area of heritage protection, in the current legislation, the Budapest Government Office has second-degree procedural law. So there's nothing wrong with a specific government office having a national scope for a specific task. I can say to the gullible Member that, on the ground, decisions that we regard as a specific local task under the legislation must be taken. On this basis, we could say, let's say, national construction regulations and a number of things, and we in Parliament shouldn't decide, but let the locals tell us what they want and then what they want. Well, on that basis, we could practically stop working here, and we shouldn't be telling us where to build, what to do in the country. Well, please, there's Parliament, there's government, there's national scope, there's national tasks. Allow us, in due course of law, to decide and direct them centrally. Actually, my fellow Member Vécsey was absolutely right. My fellow Member Vécsey did not say that you do not know the administration, Mr Vécsey said that it is apparent from the speech that you do not know the construction authorisation procedure. Well, it's not that you have to go to the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office with every mall or shop. This is about the exception, honourable Members. The construction of a 200 square meter shop or some commercial facility does not require a government decision in Hajdú-Bihar county. It's a local decision, a local construction authority decision. If you want to build over 400 square meters or someone wants to expand their existing business space to over 400 square meters, you want to benefit from the exception, and the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office, taking into account the advice of the expert committee, will make a decision on whether you can live with the exception of whether you can build it after all. That is what you said, Mr Sallai, that he would like to announce zero tolerance here, so that no such establishment would be built in a greenfield at all. Let me conclude by saying that it is deeply disappointing that this picture of my fellow Member who is a believer is that he says that he would get out of here as a matter of urgency. This, in the light of last week's parliamentary debate, when we were discussing emigration here, is infinitely disappointing. In fact, he said that in the spirit of what we have heard here from Ferenc Gyurcsány that it is possible to leave here. Well, my credulous fellow Member says that he'd get out of here as a matter of urgency, literally, if he were an entrepreneur, he'd get out of here as a matter of urgency. We are pleased that Mr. Reliable is not an entrepreneur. We need entrepreneurs in this country who want to stay, they want to grow here, they want to give work to others, they want to raise their children here, and otherwise they value and love this country, and they want to make it livable and habitable. Thank you very much for your attention. I would ask my fellow Members, together with technical amendments, to support the bill with their vote. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-08-362	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1993 III on social management and social benefits. Act XXXI of 1997 on the Protection of Children and Child Welfare Administration The Commission's report on the amendment of the Law on Sports Act 2004 and the Commission's report on the amendment of certain related laws. [[21.10]] The submission is T/2089. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report on the detailed discussion of the Welfare Committee as designated committee T/2089/19. available on the network by serial number. The Commission's amendment, which concluded no detailed debate, was not submitted to the present proposal, nor was it initiated by the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Dear Parliament, I ask the Secretary of State László Palkovics... - Mr Károly Czibere, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now as rapporteur. [[Károly Czibere: No, thank you.]] No. Then perhaps in the closing word, Secretary of State Czibere. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP.
u2014-12-08-363	Thank you very much for the floor. I'll take a kneel, too. I try not to mention every aspect of the legislative proposal, but I would like to mention two or three things. One of them. In the context of the law, we proposed not to amend aid at the committee meeting. We have done this primarily because we see that the transformation of the relief system is nothing more than a withdrawal of funds from the social security system. It is well known that housing support will cease from next year. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this affects nearly half a million people. The debt management service will cease, affecting more than 13,400 people. The kindergarten allowance will cease, affecting 34 700 people, and Mother, of course. We're losing equity in public health, which affects more than 50 300 people. And there's gonna be no fair pay for care, which affects over 10,500 people. This is unacceptable to us, which is why we tabled our amendment at the time. I would like to mention that the law deals with homeless people so that they can get housing support. Unfortunately, this was rejected by the legislator. We say that, unfortunately, homeless people will not be able to participate in the provision of assisted housing in the future. The legal amendment was justified at the time by the fact that no assisted housing has been established for homeless persons. I think that's a bit cynical. The third thing I would like to mention is the possibility of charging a retrospective fee in residential homes. We also find this unacceptable to have the service paid retroactively. If a person is entitled to free benefits because he does not have any income available, he or she shall not be liable to pay a fee afterwards. The fourth such proposal and the amendment were tabled so as not to make an entry contribution of HUF 8 million. It is well known that in the context of the law, every person who wishes to spend the rest of his life in a permanent residential institution can be charged a single entry fee of HUF 8 million in the institutions maintained by the state. This is also unacceptable to us. Dear House, I do not wish to be particularly concerned, so, as is the case, this social law is unacceptable to the Socialist Party, and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-364	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2014-12-08-365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is clear that Parliament is empty on such an important issue, so to speak. I wouldn't want to waste any time, but I would just like to say to Mr Secretary of State that we have been discussing these laws for hours. We were then even praised for the meaningful debate that we had had, while all our goodwill amendments were voted off at the committee meeting. Secretary of State L. Simon has already left, and he has just said - I cannot quote literally - that we can put out the full sign for the country. The only thing they don't realize is that stadiums haven't filled this country yet. With everything else, yeah. And I am very sorry that all of our amendments are voted out in a series, and they do not consider these amendments to be important. I'm very sorry, it's quite possible to say that at this point in time, I feel that the multi-hour debate was pointless. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-366	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén, Jobbik.
u2014-12-08-367	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would first like to say a few words about the committee meeting itself. We hoped that the rules of conflict of interest had changed, that the laws had changed, in other words, that the concept of political job accumulation had ceased, so there would be no problem with committee meetings. In comparison, the committee meeting was convened in the middle of a debate which was initiated by a better Member, which was about a very important topic, a topic that also concerns the social system, emigration and the social situation. For this reason, Mr President, Vice-President of the People's Welfare Committee, wrote to the President that it should be moved to another date, because a very important day of debate is taking place in Parliament on this very day, but it is on deaf ears. That is why we did not attend this committee meeting, which is why we considered the major debate day more important. By the way, in view of the Commission report, it is no wonder that we considered it more important, because our amendments were also swept off the table without debate. By the way, compared to one of our amendments - which I mentioned during the general debate - I saw that the Secretary of State agreed with our intention to include not only the general lonzunges but also the specific tasks in determining the role of the correction institutions, the task of resocialization and reintegration, which should be the main area of activity of the correction institution. This amendment was also swept away. But we're used to that. I trust that in the same way as in our other constructive proposals - and otherwise acceptable proposals - it will also happen in this motion, namely that the government will bring it in as its own motion. Then, of course, we will be happy to support this, because what we have promised in both election campaigns, wherever there is a measure, an initiative that will benefit the country or even the profession, will be supported. Another, where we are also talking about sweeping down our amending proposal, is the subject of school social work. If we take into account what I said in the general debate already, that the government is slipping to fulfil its task, and if we take into account the fact that it is embracing this task on child welfare services, if we take these two facts into account, and we add that the 2015 budget gives less budget norm to the professional tasks of child welfare services, and we also take into account that the current draft law provides for the provision of social work in schools in a conditional manner, so that child welfare services have this opportunity, it follows directly that this will not be achieved. However, in order to protect our young people, it can also be said that, given the mental state of young people, or even taking into account their vulnerability, it should be made mandatory. And not only should this clause be conditional in the law, but it should be binding, in a declarative manner, that it must be ensured. This reminds me of another tale of King Matthias, the story of the clever girl, when she brought a gift to the king, and she didn't. The profession is now facing this issue in the same way, and even competent people working in education are standing on this issue with a view to getting something and not getting it. Children in need of this service have received something and not. Youth in a very poor mental state got something, and it didn't. Children who are increasingly at risk, even at risk of abuse or endangerment, children in educational institutions, have received something again, and have not. And again, child welfare services didn't get anything. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[21.20]]
u2014-12-08-368	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I am now giving the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere on his referring law.
u2014-12-08-369	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, I would like to thank you for your suggestions. Let me begin right away by addressing my point to the congresswoman: the debate was not pointless. In the general debate, three proposals were essentially made by opposition groups which were written up and processed. The other issue is that it has not been taken into account in this amending package, but, as I said in the general debate, in a second amending package, all three proposals will be in the coming months and in the spring. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Three!]] I think it fits in with the logic, so it affects other systems. The answer to Congressman Sebestyén Craftor is the same. We're planning school social work, and there's gonna be a source. The EFOP plan is ready and designed, so your leg will be there. I can make you a promise. It's not forgotten. And we will also make the reformatory proposal in the next package, it goes without saying, so I nodded for a reason. I would say to Mr Korós that I will also respond to aid, but aid is not in this package. It is not in this, but in order not to remain unanswered, I would like to say that this is not an end in the case of municipal aid, it is a merger and a transformation. If we look at the amount of actual payments made this year for the types of aid referred to by the Member, all year round, in total local government, we see about 30 billion. If you look at the lot available for municipal support financed from the central budget, that is 30.1 billion. In addition, a package of 5 billion dollars for those who can't even live with this 30 billion, and in addition, there is a part of the subsidies that comes from the business tax in that 261 settlement. So I think, if we look specifically at these types of aid you mentioned and the total budget expenditure you have given us, that is 30 billion, and we look at how much this will cost us next year, that is 35.1 billion, plus what we can mobilise from the local tax, then, I think, from a budgetary point of view, it is not mathematically true that the municipalities are bad. The basic question here is what are the rates we see for the 261 cities that will have to partially replace them from the business tax. I just talked to district, city mayors. There are districts where there are 8 billion business taxes and 300 million forints. So 2-3-4-5 percent of the total annual business revenue is the proportion that the municipality has to transfer to finance support. Homelessness will not be supported housing except because there has not been so far - the fact that there has not been a great attempt to be sorry - but because homeless organisations and homelessness professional organisations have indicated that this is a possible type of care and type of service, but this TÁMOP has developed better constructions: housing support, rent support and so on. We are proposing to remove it because it has not been used because of some bureaucratic obstacle, but rather simply through homelessness, there have been better ways of getting out today. It is the government's task to support these new guidelines of exit and resocialisation, which have been tested by the profession. That's what we're gonna do. The next question is the 8 million entry contributions for the institutions. Let me say once again, what I did in the general debate, is that this is an opportunity that ceased to be an option, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in 2006. Until 2006, this was an existing legal institution, a very important base and source of development and development of residential and long-term residential institutions. When the fee rule changed and the legal institution of the entry contribution ceased, this made it very difficult to maintain the institutions, and this package of proposals, which is now ahead of us - and this will have a spring leg - has a common aim of increasing service quality for users in the social services system. The second is sustainability, the third is predictability, and it serves sustainability, the improvement of quality, to take this step. I've been talking to a lot of maintenance people in the last few weeks. There were parents caring for an autistic child who thanked for this opportunity, because they simply made their development contribution, to make it a really good institution for their child, and to have a development in the autistic residential home that would bring the institution forward, they could do it black. The aim is not to banish the development resources existing and potentially available to long-term resident institutions and their caregivers and service users, which is such a contribution to the black economy. The task is to whiten them and make use of them for the user and for his quality care. I am convinced that this proposal will serve this purpose. I would like to thank you once again for your suggestions. I think that in all cases we have tried to take into account and to include in the proposal how we can improve the social, child welfare and child protection services system and how users can receive even better care. I am sure that the short deadline has been taken into account and there are areas that should have been affected, but we have not been affected. I promise that we will address all these issues in the next legislative change package to be developed in the next period. Thank you again, everyone, for your proposal, and I ask this House to accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-08-370	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Czibere. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place at our meeting next week. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, on behalf of the MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech:. Public servant or slave? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-08-371	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's see who gave the government a gadget for Santa Claus. Among other things, symbolically, the participants of the demonstration organised by the Hungarian Public Officials, Public Employees and Civil Service Workers' Union, who, as you may have heard, demand an immediate 5 percent wage increase of at least 10 thousand forints, amounting to 10 thousand forints. On the part of the MSZP, we have repeatedly drawn attention to the untenable situation of public sector workers. The civil servant's salary fund, we know very well, has not increased since 2008, it has been frozen ever since 2010. Thus, workers who are the basis for their wage calculation have suffered a decline in real earnings of more than one third in recent years. We know very well how dramatically prices have increased in Hungary, while introducing an unfair single-key 16 percent personal income tax, with a record high VAT rate in Hungary, 27 percent. Let us see what this one-third real demand reduction will result in. [[21.30]] With 20-25 years of work, a lot of people work for 80-85,000 forints. When we talk about this, we must not lose sight of the fact that we are talking about nearly 700,000 people. If we count their families, we can say harshly that one and a half million people are affected by this problem. The civil servants' salary base is also extremely important for the armed forces, as we know very well that it is also the basis for calculating their wages. Here, I must point out that the fact that the Hungarian Defence Service is still functioning today is due precisely to our extremely well-prepared and dedicated soldiers and defense workers, who do superhuman work every day and are incredibly dedicated. Here I would like to highlight what we are hearing from the government a lot, and it is really commendable, although I think that was the minimum that the professional staff of the armed forces - we very much hope that they will do so - will be given a 30 percent salary increase from the middle of next year. Yes, but for those of you who work in the civil service, leaving the civil servant's salary unchanged, I would like to draw your attention to this and to keep their work in mind. And public administration workers maintain the state's functionality, and we can see that when a major lay-offs occur, replacements, transformations, such as at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs at the moment, a system can become ineffective without civil servants and public administration workers who otherwise do hard work every day in the background. Their role is extremely important, since they can be the control of bad measures if they are listened to and if they dare to say that a measure will have a negative impact. But at present we are saying that civil servants, civil servants, too, are in constant existential fear in Hungary and uncertainty. So it is natural for them to strive to maintain their families. So I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that everyone whose wages are calculated from the civil servant's salary base should think of them, as they are expected to operate the most important institutions, and expect them to run the government, public administration, police, defence, social sector, to stop life without them. So get on with your civil servants, increase the civil servant's salary, because the public sector workers, as they said, are full of puttonyuks. Thank you, and thank you for your patience.
u2014-12-08-372	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The speaker after the next agenda is Mr Vágó Sebestyén Jobbikós; I give the floor with the title "Para Superstar" in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-08-373	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, on Friday, December 5th, József Attila Angyalföldi's Cultural House held the final of the talent contest announced by the National Association of Disabled People's Association in spring. This talent contest has been awarded to people with disabilities in two categories, creative and performer-artistic category. Thank God, there was a lot of enthusiasm among those involved. More than 400 people submitted applications for this competition, more than 400 applications. At the finals on Friday, which I had the pleasure of participating in, 19 contestants made themselves into performers and artists. By the way, the winning products and works of the artists could be viewed in the hall of the cultural house at the decisive location. I think this initiative is very good. Such initiatives help people with disabilities to live a full life, to show what they are good at, and to see the works or even the performances, I could say that in many cases they are much better than their intact associates. This is how we can really lift them up, so that they can truly live a full life and truly feel an integral part of themselves, an independent part of society and a full part of society. By the way, the idea owners of the competition or the idea owners of the talent show Monspart Sarolta world-run champion, Emese Bálint and Bálint Farkas performers. Dr. Lajos Hegedűs, president of the association, thought that he would embrace this initiative and organise this competition. Fortunately, this year, he said, there was still a competition that they could apply for to organise such a large-scale talent contest, but unfortunately, he also had to tell us the sad fact that next year they might not be able to continue this mission, because there was no similar proposal for next year. By the way, this shows me the process that I have seen here, either during the legislative or even during the establishment of the budget, that in words the government or the governing parties can say very vocal phrases about their caring for the fate of people with disabilities, they consider it important that they live an equivalent life, that they have the same right to be citizens of the country, but that is not what we see in reality. They always say "sensitization" with a loud word, how important it is. What I'm saying is that a very, very important step in sensitivity, a very, very important tool, is even such a talent contest. If we do not give the opportunity to organise them with tenders and government grants, then we should not expect great miracles from sensitivity. Or, if we are talking about equal opportunities, let's look around the country, from an accessibility point of view, how we stand public transport, how the streets stand, how the squares stand, usually the opportunity that could be open to a disabled person; we can talk about any disability, and we can start with a calm heart, because he knows that he can get from point A to point B. We know very well that if a person becomes disabled, disabled as a result of a disease or even an accident, then whether it is the transformation of his living environment and his environment or the cost of purchasing assets. Compared to this, these amounts in the 2015 budget do not really rise even at the rate of inflation. Or if we take into account what they also say, and by the way, one of the important cornerstones of full life and equality is to be able to do creative and actual work, even for people with changed working skills - what do we see in the 2015 budget? We find that wage support for people with disabilities is reduced, and employment support for these people is reduced. I would like to ask the government and the pro-government representatives not only to bear the equivalent lives of people with disabilities in words, not only in passwords, but also in phrases. We can see them here in the Parliament, in the legislative proposals and in the budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-374	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik, has applied for a post-scheduled speech: . How many more victims will there be of aging jackals in human skin? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Ander.
u2014-12-08-375	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Advent period should be a period of peaceful, hopeful waiting, but in the growing areas of Hungary from which the state has actually left, in many hundreds and hundreds of small settlements it is not a time of happy waiting for such long winter evenings, but a time of terror. In many small houses, fear moves in, and the elderly living there, and lonely people are afraid. They fear for their lives, fear for their little, little fortunes. I predict that attacking, maiming, brutally murdering, and abuse of few of their pensionable, defenseless old people cannot, in our opinion, fall into the concept of crime of livelihoods. Those who do things like that, I'm a jackal in human skin. [[21.40]] There is no other way to call people who commit such horrific, ignominious crimes while living at the moral level of the Paleolite Stone Age. These do not show any human character, for they can only see their fellow humans as prey animals, and in many cases they are worse than the real jackals. By the way, they act the same way, cowardlyly, they usually attack more people, or if it doesn't happen that way, the victim is always the elderly, the defenseless, the sick, the unable to stand up for himself. Unfortunately, the fact is that in the world of Somogy County, which has long been seen as an island of peace, we are seeing more and more of these unrated crimes. I have here a very sad little bouquet from the past period, the most outrageous, tragic of such cases: from April 2011, when a puppy criminal thought to travel to your neighboring village, Kiscorpa, and beat an old man over 70 years of age to death on his own site, and seriously assaulted his wife. In May 2012, the horrific murder on Kinizsi Street in Kaposvár shook the public; while in May 2012 two men broke into an 81-year-old lady in Böhönya and robbed her for 700 forints because they were not satisfied with the loot, one of them even raped her. In November 2012, residents of a children's home in Fonyód, together with disadvantaged young people in Budapest, traveled to Boglar, where they joined an older homeless person in the waiting room. At first, he was dirty with words, and then he was attacked in action, after he was on the ground, practically smashed in his face, his head, and then the homeless guy brought to the hospital for the respiratory failure caused by multiple rib fractures died a few days later, in terrible agony. In December 2012, a couple with a deep lack of need, who had a habit of taking excessive amounts of canned wine, went next door, where one of them hit the old woman with a brick on the head more than ten times, and finally left with a bag of 20,000 forints. In April 2014, the inhabitants of Kaposvár were once again shocked by a brutal murder, and the latest news is that in November 2014, we are in North Somogy in a settlement called Viszis, 200 small enthusiastic villages, where people actually know each other not by face, but by name, and the victim is also an elderly woman over 70 working with honor throughout her life. The unsub, whose mother, by the way, according to the villagers, is a cute, hardworking woman, but despite her youth, has been in conflict with the law several times, because of crimes against drugs and property, and according to her pictures on social portals, it is a truly admirable scumbag. Jobbik and all honest people do not want to settle for such walking jackals to be the night of Somogy, and then these undomestible herders also have the day of Somogy, which is why we demand that the prisons converted into spa hotels function in accordance with their original purpose and convert them into security prisons. We could go further, I could quote Isaac Ehrlich's research on the death penalty here, but let's not go so far, it would be enough, say, to take Cesare Beccaria, who, as a classic criminal law, told us that these people should pay back society what they did to it, slaving it like a bullshit. Maybe we'd agree with that, but unfortunately, I guess I'm not the only one who's been distracted by the news that they haven't reopened the Mecsek mines, let's say, for these psychotic monsters. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-376	Thank you, Congressman. Zoltán Magyar, on behalf of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Concealed Cavalry." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-08-377	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I had the opportunity to raise the problems of the cheated cavalry society in a two-minute speech and to address their legitimate needs here, but I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity after the agenda. I would like to start by saying that the Government has failed to implement the Kincsem National Horse Programme, despite the fact that on 29 February 2012, if I recall correctly, this programme was adopted at a government meeting. In fact, the Minister himself has asked the profession at the time to develop a programme that will be able to renew the cavalry society that has been neglected for decades - now many of its sectors are on the brink of total destruction - and will be able to present a programme that would be realistic, feasible, but still promote development with serious steps. The profession was not idle, and first it made a claim, and then it did what it had to do, what the Minister asked for, and put this programme on the table. I'd just like to mention a few areas of this program you've been talking about. This is not only about breeders, but also about sports, horse racing, horse therapy, genetic conservation, traditionalism, tourism, education, and every aspect of the horse industry. Both the existing conditions and the solutions for the future have been put on the table. Since then, a number of years have passed, and we see that every year there is less for the riding industry, and I am not only thinking that in money, let us say, in a given year, there is less for this sector from European Union funds or from domestic budget resources, but also that I am thinking that the money that comes into it is concentrated in the hands of a narrow elite. This is mainly reflected in the area of development money and competitive tendering. This narrow elite lies very well for the government, it is clearly the government's intention to play the entire Hungarian horse industry into the hands of this small, loyal, loyal group. In the meantime, of course, this is not in the interest of the cavalry. With breeding, we stand today that the Hungarian races have a serious problem, respect for the exception. Today, too, a general misconception has spread among the people committed to the horse, unfortunately, and I have to say here too, that, of course, not everyone, but a significant part of the company has the general understanding that quality competition with Hungarian horse breeds is not very good in today's world. This can be disproved, by the way, and we know that these claims are not true, but this snobism has unfortunately touched a fairly broad circle. This is also a problem of breeding, of course there are many other reasons that I will not be able to address in the absence of time. I'd like to mention the question of horse therapy. Numerous studies at home and in the world have shown that, in the case of children with problems such as attention disorder, autism and other problems, horse therapy is a very useful thing that can improve their condition by magnitude, and can even achieve a more acceptable, self-sustaining state in society later, and thus not only for the family, but also for that child, a very positive step forward is one such therapy, but also for society in the long term or even in the medium term, an investment to be made. And I'm not saying this now because it's our first request, but I'm saying it because it's often seen that the government is more concerned with fiscal aspects when planning the budget. That's the way I recommend horse therapy to your attention. Hungarian horse tourism is also dying, while our talents are also outstanding at European level, and our past would also oblige us to put much more emphasis on this area, with opportunities. Both professionals and I see that there is a vacuum in this area today in Europe and perhaps in the world. It would therefore be worthwhile to place greater emphasis on horse tourism through improvements. This would also be an area that is already recovering in the medium term. As far as education is concerned, I have to say that to date there is no uniform education system, although the profession has been demanding this for decades now, and many educational institutions have converted, leaving quality aspects behind to a quantitative education, which is also not good for the profession. I have had a short time to say these things, and I will look forward to the Government's reply, if not otherwise, in writing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-378	Thank you very much, Congressman. In Salgótarján, this is the title of the speech by the Fidesz MEP Zsolt Becsó after the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman. [[21.50]]
u2014-12-08-379	Mr President, Dear House, It is believed that the deeper we go into the past, the more light it gives. This is true even if there are social groups, if there are people who for decades have blocked them by fire and iron to reveal the drivers of certain historical events, but mostly the ones responsible. These events include a series of fires in the chain of communist retaliations following the devastation of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. Porkheads, Russian tanks, professional snipers fulfilled the intent of a mass murderer of power. In Budapest, Tatabánya, Miskolc, Ozdon and Eger, innocent people's blood painted the streets red, and the doorways of refuge echoed with the whimpering and call for help of wounded people. Today is the anniversary of the fire in Salgótarján on 8 December 1956. Thousands of miners, steel factory, glass factory workers marched to the pre-police station at the headquarters of Nógrád county. The crowd demanded the release of two of their companions arrested the day before, who were members of the county workers' council. The Karhatismists set up a trap for protesters and opened fire on defenseless, fleeing people, including children, women, and even a pregnant mother. The mass murder had 131 fatalities, and a hundred and a half wounded were taken to the hospital. It turns out that the puppet government that came into power under the shadow of Soviet tanks, despite the promise of grass and wood, remained uncredited. He couldn't get the support of the workers' councils, so he didn't shy away from the shooting. János Kádár and his gang held the Central Workers' Council responsible for the massacre in Salgótarján, whose leaders were also arrested the next day. A few days later, Communist propaganda on its flyers claimed the inability of counter-revolutionaries to fire and throw hand grenades at armpower, Soviet units. In today's language, they lied in the morning and in the night and in the evening. Dear Parliament, We know how many victims of the brutal retaliation following the revolution and the war of freedom in Hungary. Over 400 people were executed, 21,000 incarcerated, 16 to 18,000 interned and about 200,000 fled the country. Among the members of the Moskovite congregation, which is a revolutionary worker-parastic government, Ferenc Munnich, Antal Apró, Béla Biszku, took an excellent exam in his vendetta against his own people. They've captured everyone they've assumed to be capable of disrupting the state's order, its peace of mind. If we look through the recent history book of the country, from time to time, we can see that the communist movement - called the left - and dictatorship - are siblings. They don't choose in the instruments: conceptual lawsuit, static court, gulag camp, autumn speech, secret bank account, IMF credit, water cannon, rubber projectile - they keep going. The Communists aim to break, remove, deter, intimidate or destroy the most dangerous persons and groups in society. 58 years ago, in Salgótarján, they set an example of it, and for a long time people, stealing it, remembered the martyrs of a series of fires with a flower and a candle that blinked unnoticed. As time passed, many relatives felt that what happened was not the worst, but that they should not talk about it. It had to be kept a secret, like it never happened. According to St Augustine, though, the dead are invisible, they are present. Dear House, It is said that memories sometimes cause more destruction than a series of machine guns. Yet our generation must take this burden on its back, it must assume this responsibility so that the generations that follow us can learn about democracy and the freedom struggle for the independence of the nation in 1956, because ultimately memory makes us what we are. The deeper we dig into the past, the more light it gives us, and if we're deprived of our memories, it's like we're being deprived of everything, and we can't let that happen. The day of mourning in Salgótarján warns that memories are not only about our past but also affect our future. Let's keep an eye on them. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-08-380	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Becsó. After the agenda, Mr István Ikotity, Member, asked for the title of help. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-08-381	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Access to information in the area of social benefits in Hungary is proving difficult. Most people contact institutions when they are obliged to do so or when a person or the whole family is in a crisis. The LMP therefore proposes to create a website that makes social benefits available to all and provides adequate information on the activities of the institutions, a wide range of services. The Social Sectoral Portal is the only database on the subject that currently exists in the social field, but it is not user-friendly and it is very incomplete. The client does not know where to turn for help, but merely sought to list the benefits provided by the legislation. The only information that can be used under the menu item.. The only information that can be used is. What is what in 2014? This includes wages, subsidies, tax charges, contributions and benefits. There is no proper search, no map display, and this is already a basic function everywhere else in 2014. At hand, the concept of social services, initiated by the LMP, focuses on easy handling and accurate information. Access to services can be improved through user-friendly transfer of information. According to LMP, a website should be created to show what social services are in the vicinity of the user's residence, what it can use, and to enable not only district and urban search, but also problem-specific screening. It is worth considering that not only state-government, but also church, civil and private service providers should be included in the database. To illustrate: Wherever a customer lives, he will receive all the existing institutions located nearby by selecting the appropriate menu point. For example, if you are looking for a psychologist, the institutions where you work are thrown out by the seeker. If these services became easily searchable and accessible, it would be much easier to prevent family problems and crises. The sooner help comes, the more effective prevention and treatment. This system can also improve the perception of institutions, as most people approach family welfare or child welfare institutions with fear. Most often they only come into contact with them if there is a serious problem with their child at school or if there is a serious debt build-up of the family, or if a family caregiver comes to the family on the basis of a signal. With the help of a user-friendly website, anyone can read a detailed description of the functions of the institutions, the benefits and services available. It would also be a good idea to introduce professionals to reduce initial fears and concerns. It would also be worth creating an anonymous interface where professionals answer the questions asked. If the client does not want to visit these institutions, you can get quick and professional answers to their simple questions within hours. The plan can also contribute to the achievement of the EU 2020 strategy. If access to social services is improved, people's quality of life can be improved. The resolution of social problems and the intervention of social helpers also improve the chances of employment in the labour market. But let's keep going. Timely problems prevent addiction, psychiatric illness, preventing the deterioration of human relationships, and maintaining family unity. In fact, the more we expand the range of services available in the database, involving health or even educational services in addition to social benefits, the more useful it is for citizens to benefit from such a relatively simple and low-cost system. We will also send this proposal to the competent minister and urge him to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-08-382	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, and we will resume the meeting of the Parliament at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed. [[The meeting ended at 22.00.]]
