u2014-11-18-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are following our work through the television screens today. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will be notaries of my assistance. The 14th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. Imre Vejkey, from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, asked to speak before the agenda today. I shall immediately take this opportunity to apologize to the Member on behalf of the Office for the technical difficulties that this title has been written on the Parliament's website. It's not the office's fault. It's the tech devil who's moved in so many times? who works with computers, you know? the world of computers. Even now, such a technical difficulty has arisen. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that I do not have the power of the word and argument to change the position of the unconditional believers of liberal democracy, according to which the accusation is justified even if a person is accused of guilt without revealing any specific evidence, but I still have political and conscientious reason to express my views and objections against this prejudicated accusation, unnamed, uncontested concept. My political reason is that as a watchman of Europe, Hungary is fighting a war of freedom, and I believe in what Schuman said: Europe will be either a Christian or not. And I would reveal my conscience in the book of the prophet Ezekiel with the faith command that if the watchman saw the armed enemy coming, but did not blow the horn and warn the people, God would ask him to account for the lost human lives. [[Zoltán Grimlock: St Augustine as well.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, CHAPTER XXI By the century, time has passed over the classic form of revolutions, but the desire of sovereignty cannot be extinguished from the Hungarian nation, so the Hungarians are fighting freedom again today. And the Hungarian nation always wanted to know its fate in its own hands; the revolutions of 1703, 1848 and 1956 and the war of independence are objective proof of this. Today, Hungary is the most united nation in Europe, a nation that stands at the door of a new and proud era. We believe that the Hungarian name will be beautiful again, worthy of its old great news. Today, we live in times when weak and cowardly nations have no future, such nations fall apart. Hungary stands up for the rights of its citizens and cannot accept that Hungarian citizens are accused of not sharing the underlying information from outside. Hungary does not accept the question of the democratic commitment of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament. Hungary stands up for itself again, fighting against opponents that seem bigger and stronger, but the truth will win. Our country has proved to the world that we are a nation of strong and brave. The country broke down its previously thought unbreakable handcuffs one by one, remembering those who paid for the Hungarian freedom fight with their lives. Their deaths were not in vain. Ladies and Gentlemen, Many still believe that only the promotion of world politics, the determined policy of Reagan and the perestroika have decided that Central Europe and the Hungarians in it should be free again. But that's not how the world works. That alone would not have been enough for a turnaround. Now allow me a relevant quote from Saint II. From Pope Paul János: The wealth of a nation lies above all in the people who make it up to him. The political map of Europe is easy to redefine, but actually to make the necessary changes, well, that requires a national vision, individual courage and above all faith. Ladies and Gentlemen, The last twenty years have been a time of transition in our country, where neoliberal circles have constantly sought to make the difference between freedom and dictatorship relative, as well as the truth itself. Today it's over. You can't bring this age back by crying out for it. We cannot return under any flag what was written in Peter Bacsó's film A Witness: Comrade Virág, this is not the indictment, but the judgment. Thank you very much for your attention. God bless Hungary! [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-18-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Levente Magyar responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-18-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I fully agree with what has been said, if the Hungarian nation has an elemental interest in standing up for its rights and interests, as it has demonstrated on many occasions throughout history that it has the ability to change the unchangeable in many cases. However, accusations without evidence are a situation that is extremely difficult to combat [[István Szávay: Béla Kovács.]] It's extremely difficult to defend yourself against this. Therefore, honourable Member, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is an extremely difficult situation, in which we are also counting on our ally, our friend, the United States of America, when it has brought up this particular situation. We are in the fortunate position, honourable Member, that, in this situation, we are not dealing with an opponent and not with an enemy, but with a friend, an ally, a military ally, and, as has been said in this House, I would also like to clarify that there is nothing stronger in international life than a military alliance. What could be a stronger bond between two countries than the voluntary commitment to protect each other with blood if necessary? Honourable Congressman, I therefore think that in this respect the situation is clear, the United States and Hungary are military allies, a good friend of each other, and I am sure that we will be able to resolve this difficult situation together, because this situation is not worthy of the United States, it is not worthy of Hungary, and it is especially not worthy of centuries of Hungarian-American friendship, Hungarian-American relations. Honourable Congressman, The particular situation in the Hungarian-American relationship system is that in this context, friendship between peoples, the basis of common values, has always exceeded or generally exceeded the intensity of political relations. In many cases, politics tells us who to be friends with, who to be hostile to. This was never the case between the United States and Hungary, because there is also a very deep, organic social basis for political relations here. Let me show you some of the most important things in our history. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: At the end of the century, the 19th century At the beginning of the 20th century, in the period when the Hungarian national and civil rights movement unfolded, when the nation found itself, our national liberal greats primarily looked to America when they looked for a pattern, an example of what kind of state settlement and social arrangement they wanted to achieve in Hungary. In the United States, Annex XVIII is amended as follows: For the last few years of the 20th century, the social arrangement that the European freedom movement has seen as an example has been achieved. This was the case for Hungary. [[8.10]] As our April 1848 laws proved, these were in virtually many ways reflections of the U.S. freedom laws and freedoms adopted half a century earlier. To add, we are talking about a time when the United States was still struggling with an ancient, if not prehistoric, which is the institution of slavery. Hungary then introduced the entire civil rights equality and lost the last prisoners of feudalism. Because of this fact, a bloody war broke out in America a decade and a half later in order to abolish slavery, in which many Hungarian officers of 48-49 were actively involved. This proves that the love of freedom has always bound the two nations together. As is the fact that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, if not millions of Hungarians, have found a home in the past 150 years, a new home in the United States. So there is a serious historical tradition of receiving Hungarians from the United States, as 1956 rightly proves. And obviously, I don't have to talk about the decisive role that America played in the events of 25 years ago. Honourable Congressman, Corruption is an enemy of freedom, it's quite obvious. Corruption is Hungary's enemy, an enemy of the United States. A harmful phenomenon incompatible with our common values, against which we will do everything we can, but we cannot do anything about faceless accusations, faceless accusations. So once again, we are asking our American friends to help us find these alleged cases in the spirit of friendship and allied relations. I think that this whole system of relations and both countries can benefit from it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-18-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Speaking before the agenda from the LMP Group, Mr Sallai R. Benedek asked for a speech on the establishment of a Lowland Committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2014-11-18-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In my speech before today's agenda, I did not wish to bring up any topical policy issue, because I still feel that the Hungarian Parliament is dealing a little too much with what is going on between its own walls, with its own governance, with its own opposition, with its own party of government, and hearing less and less about the Hungarian people within these walls, about what is going on in the Hungarian countryside, how people and where they live throughout the country. That is partly why I am disappointed because we have little ability to deal with people. Many people feel abandoned throughout the country, and my narrower home, the Hungarian Great Plain, will otherwise benefit from these disadvantages. Count Klebelsberg put Kuno's person on the flag of the Hungarian government as a role model to be followed. He acted as a Hungarian lawyer, a Member of Parliament, a cultural politician, a minister of religion, home affairs and public education, but much fewer people know that after the completion of his active political career, he worked on the creation of an ad hoc committee of the Parliament and a wider social environment, and he did it all along to bring the Hungarian Great Plain to a close. His theory was that the Great Plain was practically abandoned during the Turkish period, and he couldn't bring in this 200-year lag, and he didn't change that during the reform, and between the two world wars, he couldn't restore it simply with the system of farm schools and some improvements. He thought, "What does the Lowland Committee want, after the temporary establishment of the lowland counties, cities and after Szolnok, Békéscsaba, hold a travelling meeting in Szeged? I would like to add one sentence to the answer: the correction of historical injustice in the Great Plain. And what does this injustice have to do with it? In addition to a number of minor things, I would like to summarize this in three main points. We do not count enough on the geographical location of the Great Plain in the eastern part of the country; as a result of the Turkish rule, nearly two centuries fell out of the life of the Hungarian Rena; and at the time of the settlement, when Hungary made great progress, the Great Plain was treated relatively negatively. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Of the 93,000 square kilometres of truncated Hungary, more than 42,000 square kilometres fall into the Great Plain, but in Hungary, the remaining part of Hungary is not only territorially, but also demographically, as more than one third of our country's population is reaching the Great Plain. This recognition has been part of a number of government efforts over the past 25 years. During the Antall government, there may still be people inside the walls who remember the announcement of the Great Plain program, which unfortunately didn't turn out to be anything. Since the 2000s, the development of the Vásárhelyi plan has set out a number of rural development objectives, with a landscape management model programme, but unfortunately, it has also become a low quality flood protection programme, and rural development has largely fallen behind. This backwardness we are talking about is, unfortunately, not just a vision, but, in practice, the statistical facts of the European Union show this. It is ranked 91st among the regions of the European Union, with a very high position of 26 100 GDP per capita in Central Hungary, 216th place in Western Transdanubia, 233rd place in Central Transdanubia, 246th place in South Transdanubia, 247th place in the South Great Plain, then 251. North Great Plain, followed by North Hungary. In practice, this also requires a complex, significantly wider development towards the Great Plain within the EU's regions. We ask the Government to support the ad hoc Commission's proposal to set up a lowland committee, which I will submit, in order to ensure that, in its first point, the socio-economic and environmental situation and the social care system of the inhabitants of the lowland counties are unsustainable, as a result of the development policy that has taken place so far, most of the countries outside Budapest have become unlivable to many. The standard of living and the quality of life have deteriorated dramatically and huge territorial and regional differences have emerged in equal opportunities. This has not only created social tensions, but a need for solutions at national level to address the situation. We call on the governing parties to support the establishment of the committee and to have a professional and political forum in the country that intends to catch up with the Great Plain in the next period. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-11-18-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-18-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the useful speech; indeed, it does not deal with topical policy issues, but the development of an area of the country is the subject of its speech. I can say in your speech that, of course, the government is open to sensible debate, to all constructive proposals. We listen to every proposal, every initiative, and, of course, we consider it. [[8.20]] Its very important objective and task is to develop the rural economy and infrastructure. This can also be seen as a key government objective. We are in a situation where Brussels fully agrees with these objectives. Support for convergence regions is a key priority for both Brussels and our country, and it is therefore possible for the Hungarian countryside to make effective and tangible progress in development. This will, of course, open a stable development for the lowland regions in the EU budget period 2014-2020. Indeed, it is true that the lowland regions are in some respects lagging behind the more developed central and western areas, in particular in terms of GDP per capita or in terms of the comparison of working capital, but it cannot be said that there is no progress and no progress in the lowland counties. Allow me to give you some of the improvements that have been made in recent years. For example, the new EUR 70 million investment by the FAG belonging to the Schaeffler group, with which a new plant was established in the Debrecen Industrial Park, which gives 1100 people a job. But the expansion of the Legó factory in Nyíregyháza also employs 1500 employees with 250 new jobs, or the citric acid factory also creates 440 new jobs in the Hungarian-Chinese joint investment in Szolnok. These are examples of the fact that jobs can be created in the Great Plain. It is very important that we can use these resources effectively for the benefit of the countryside in the EU budget period 2014-2020. This will be ensured primarily by the operational programme for the development of areas and settlements, which has a development source of approximately HUF 1200 billion, with the exception of Budapest and Pest county. These development resources will basically be provided to county authorities, to county towns, to develop development plans and concepts, which have already been prepared in a large part, and this will ensure the coordinated and consistent development of the given county in the given region. For example, the counties of the lowland will receive HUF 460 billion from this source, the TOP source, of which the county-righted cities will use 153 billion, the counties will use 197 billion and the urban areas will use HUF 113 billion based on their own decision, their own decision and their own vision. Honourable Congressman, In terms of how and how these EU and national resources will be used, locals will decide on this. If, at your initiative, local stakeholders, local actors, county towns, county authorities and districts will think that a lowland committee should be set up, it should be initiated locally. If local stakeholders see the need for such cooperation, they will initiate it, and this initiative will, of course, be considered by the government to establish it with legal support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the MSZP Group, Mr Bertalan Tóth has applied for a speech before the agenda on our current affairs. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to talk about a current matter, and I have no good news, Mr Secretary, because I would like to talk about current political affairs and affairs. Last night in Budapest, and not only in Budapest, but also in several major cities of Hungary, Pécs, Komlón, Szombathely, Veszprém, and in several major cities of Europe, people declared that they had had enough. They are sick and tired of the fact that Viktor Orbán's government is involved in corruption and has to pay more and more taxes. They are sick of Viktor Orbán making them pay for the cost and consequences of corrupt governance. They are sick of having to be ashamed of Viktor Orbán's corrupt government in front of the world, because it is a shame for all of us to ban government officials from a democratic country. Ladies and gentlemen, However, people are not only fed up, but they are right, because what country is it where government officials in the news of corruption can remain in place without a substantive investigation? What country is it where the investigating authority doesn't want to investigate? What country is it where government officials in the name of corruption cases can investigate themselves? What country is it where budget revenues lost due to corruption through government assistance are paid to small people? And what country does the Speaker of Parliament ban the flag of the European Union and the national flag of Hungary from the Hall of Parliament and request that it be returned by letter? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties, among other things: He's right next to you! ? Don't you know the national flag?]] Hungary is now exactly this country with no consequences. A country where the Prime Minister's personal good friends can gain ten billion-dollar assets in a few years, while millions of Hungarians are permanently poor. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] A country where István Garancsi, with government help, brings together several gas shops with tens of billions of dollars in profits, while they subtract tens of billions from public education and take away the future from our children. A country where a gasman in Felcsút could be one of the richest people in Hungary during the four years of the Orbán government, only because he has the confidence of Viktor Orbán, while gradually reducing social costs, eliminates unemployment benefits. A country where 27 percent of VAT, chips tax, soap taxes, detergents, insurance taxes, accident taxes, telephone taxes and countless other taxes are to be paid in order to recapitalisation the Simicska empire. Ladies and gentlemen, It is fair and understandable, therefore, that all public uproar in Hungary until the government clears the corruption suspect cases. This case has outgrown Vida Ildikó and his companions. This is about trust in the entire government institution system. The work of civil servants who perform it with honor, who would prefer to raise salaries rather than be ashamed of the accusations made against their leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, So far, the Government of Viktor Orbán has focused all its actions on helping people in a better way while increasing their own private assets. They have also reduced their taxes and have been granted discounts, whether it be personal income tax or aid to foreign exchange credentials in trouble. Because let's not forget: the fact that the repayment of foreign currency loans today is such a problem is precisely due to the government of Viktor Orbán, which knowingly damaged the exchange rate of the forint and increased the repayments. And the increase in the repayment resulting from the forint weakening will not be offset by the large bank settlement, so the MSZP said that the HUF 265 and HUF 186 Swiss franc rates should be used for the forinting. Ladies and gentlemen, This week, the government and the governing parties still have the opportunity to change and not to increase the burden on people. They have the opportunity not to raise taxes, they have the opportunity not to make decisions that are bad for people living in poverty, bad for banks and bad for the economy. They have the opportunity to withdraw the tax law today and to withdraw the unfair forinting proposal that puts the exchange of currency on a market basis. Ladies and gentlemen, The message of the day of public uproar is simple, and it doesn't require an interpreter. Please understand and make responsible decisions. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-18-10	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-18-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, there were protests in Hungary again yesterday, but? as opposed to socialist governments? This is not condemned by the current government and does not attack protestors, but respects them. [[8.30]] It respects the views of people who express their views on the streets in this form and send a message to the government, send a message to the country about what they may or may not agree with. That would be okay. However, it is not right that yesterday's protests have become violent acts again, and many of the protesters have carried out an act that does not fit the democratic system, which does not fit in with the expression provided by the means of the demonstration to Hungarian citizens. This is unfortunate, and it is particularly regrettable that the Hungarian Socialist Party has not condemned this now, and has not said that it does not agree that protests should be followed by acts of violence. For the Hungarian Socialist Party, one important thing is that the government, the government decisions, the government players are discredited, criticized and accused, accused of something that doesn't really exist. Because if there were any specific facts, evidence, or crime against the president of the NAV, which is justified on the charge of the crime, then obviously you'd be here to say the same thing. However, you choose the way to accuse, criticize, without any specific means, without any concrete evidence. Your speech is entitled "Actual Affairs." If I may, these are not the current cases you mentioned to the government, the Fidesz-KDNP majority and the country. The current issue is that next year's tax package should be adopted today, a tax package that ensures the revenue side of next year's budget, which clearly expresses the Hungarian government's support for families, the Hungarian government stands for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Hungarian government stands for production and the creation of value. The current question for us is clearly how we can deal with the fate of foreign exchange lenders. The accusations that the Orbán government caused this situation are not true. This makes you laugh, as everyone in Hungary knows that the socialist governments actually created this problem, created it between 2004 and 2008, eliminating the preferential forint loan. You encouraged people to take on foreign exchange loans. Just in 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP majority, the new government, stopped the problem from getting worse and started to eliminate the problem. These are the current cases today. The two bill proposals that the Parliament is going to start negotiating this week on fair banks and on forinting will ensure that no Hungarian person has to fear who has taken out such a loan, how much will be paid, as the forinting will give these families a stability, a security. The current issue is that the Parliament will start negotiating the budget law tomorrow, and the general debate will be closed this week, in which decisions will clearly be taken to serve the interests of Hungarian people, Hungarian families. These are the current cases [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] It's not your accusations. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-18-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda from the Jobbik Group, István Szávay, Member:. What is a Szekler flag worth? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, there is only one thing lower than the level of Hungarian football, is the Hungarian Football Association itself, MLSZ? The way fans say funny things about each other, the FAF? which has reached a new low in terms of both professional and moral work in recent weeks. In addition to killing billions in stadiums, supposedly training replacements, while the operation of the entire MLSZ is based on anti-enthusiasts, the fans are trying to keep them out of the stadiums, which you, the pro-government majority, are assisting with the new access system that you have recently introduced. In addition, it is not important for the Hungarian Football Association to have full stadiums, to have high-quality matches, but rather to be able to keep the unwanted fans away as much as possible under the direction of Security Chief Samu István. But the Hungarian Football Association not only excels in anti cheering in Europe, but also in its ability to excel in anti-Hungarianism over the past few weeks and months. In the previous period, in previous years, the historic Arpad-band flag was banned from the stadiums, and they also made it impossible to write XVII-XIX on banners. The name of the German culture of the century, the name of Sturm und Drang, because some fool who was competent thought it was some kind of Nazi password. We have now reached the point in the last few weeks that a Szekler flag has been banned from the Hungarian-Finland match, saying that it may harm the sensitivity of others. We have come to the point, ladies and gentlemen, that the MLSZ is no longer just dealing with the sensitivity of Hungarian people. We have come to the point where he spits across the entire nation and humiliates the foreign Hungarians who make up a quarter of the nation, while no rebuttal has been said by the leaders of MLSZ in this regard. Some...? And, unfortunately, I would like to add, I'm sorry, for one more sentence, that these decisions go against everything, the values that you represent, what you say when you talk about national political revolutions and national cooperation. Is the Szekler flag flying on the building of the Hungarian Parliament? I put it in parentheses, on the initiative of Jobbik, did I raise it myself in the first place? But this Székely flag is forbidden to enter a Hungarian match. We don't know how much a Szekler flag is worth yet, because no fines have been imposed for this, but Vasas fans have already been punished for a hundred thousand forints due to a recent NS2 match on Trian! They chanted rhyme. Fellow Members! Where do we live? ? What country do we live in? In which neighbouring country could this be done? The Trianon was the largest strode of the Hungarian nation. Whose sensitivity do we want to take into account when Hungarian fans in Hungarian stadiums are being punished for this rhyme? Unlike Romania, in any case, which in Romanian matches, even if the opponent is not Hungarian or there are no Hungarians, for 90 minutes the stadium has been rumbled with the fact that it is Ria, ria, Bozgoria! ..and that's afară, afară, cu ungurii din ţară! In other words, get out of the country with the Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, Where is the look of our own sensitivity? Why do we always want to consider the sensitivity of others? And it's your responsibility, and it's the responsibility of the government. Jobbik believes that the leadership of the entire Hungarian Football Association should leave immediately, and if they refuse to do so, then you still have the opportunity to force them to do so with financial and other resources. What is happening today in the Hungarian Football Association is clearly the responsibility of both the governing parties and the Hungarian government. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to put this beautiful Romanian flag in order. [[He's showing it to me.]] I'll show you here and wave it. Am I going to send this Romanian flag to Sándor Csányi, president of the Football Federation? may I ask my Fidesz fellow Member, Bánki Erik, who is a member of the Bureau of the Football Association? "Take this flag with you next time, put it in the box of honor, "if it's any closer to your heart than the Szekler flag. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[8.40]]
u2014-11-18-14	On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary L. Simon László responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-18-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We note with immense sadness that the betterman is also performing more performances in Parliament. I would like to remind my fellow Member of the time... [[György Szilágyi: Speak normally!]] Is it possible for me to talk?
u2014-11-18-16	Congressman, Congressman L. Simon László has the floor. Don't try to sparkle your football fans' virtues now and be quiet.
u2014-11-18-17	I would be very happy if my fellow Members did not feel at the stadium, since my colleague Szilágyi was talking about the stadium. In any case, I would like to remind you all that there has been a government in this country over the last two and a half decades, which has consistently been said by the left-wing foreign minister to the government instead of Bratislava, on the grounds that we must respect the sensitivity of Slovaks. We said that Bratislava is an old Hungarian city, even if it is the capital of Slovakia. We respect the sensitivity and sovereignty of Slovaks, but we have the right to call the former Hungarian coronation city Bratislava. And if we call Vienna Vienna Vienna, it's natural in the same way, and we don't say Wien in Hungarian, we say Vienna. This means that for the members of the current governing coalition, it was never in question that we call Hungarian things, Hungarian cities, Hungarian land units in Hungarian, and that Hungarians or our fellow nations in minority existence, including Szeklers, can rightly use their own symbols, their own values and use their mother tongue. The current Hungarian government supports the use of the national and community symbols of national minorities, including Transylvanian Hungarians, and the free use of the Hungarian and Szekler flag. And, of course, in the event that this is attacked in any way, where appropriate, on the part of the majority of the nations in neighbouring countries, if they take restrictive measures contrary to European rights, the Hungarian Government will continue to make its voice heard. To raise this question to us in this House, let us just say, Congressman, that at least it is not fitting; in the House where the President of the Hungarian Parliament, László Kövér, expressed his sympathy for the Szeklers, laid the Szekler flag on the wall of the House. In this House, where our Fidesz fellow Members in their own offices or, where appropriate, showing the coat of arms on their own jackets, express their sympathy with our Szekler brothers and sisters, and make clear their attachment to the nation's past, to its belongings, in the House where the Fidesz-KDNP association of the previous government cycle presented the law on witnessing for national solidarity, to raise anything against us and to ask us to be polite, I say that it is not appropriate at least. By the way, if what really happened was that the Hungarian Football Association officially stepped up against fans who waved a Szekler flag in a Hungarian stadium, we do not consider it appropriate. We don't think that's right. I think that it does not violate anyone's sensitivity to see the symbols of a minority or of a small community that is part of the Hungarian nation at a Hungarian football match. If you come into my Parliamentary office, Congressman, you will see that in addition to the national flag, my narrower country, Fejér county, has its crested flag, indicating that part of my identity belongs to the county of Fejér, and I also considered it important to place the county flag, because in that country a very important symbol of the country appears, in the middle of the Fejér county crested flag is the scene when St. Stephen offers the country to the Virgin Mary. It's the coat of arms of Fejér County. Dear fellow Member, I can say that the Fidesz-KDNP alliance is committed to the Transylvanian Hungarian cause, committed to the Szeklery case, and will take every step to ensure that the Szeklers can use their own symbols, symbols proudly and happily in their own country and elsewhere, and that the contrary restrictive measures are curbed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament, applied for a speech before the agenda from the Fidesz Group entitled: "The Art Education." Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2014-11-18-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Artistic education is effective for the moral sense and spiritual health of children, young people and young people for a long time. One form of this is the possibility of film. In particular, I am talking about small films, film sociographics, documentary films and creators, betrothed to reality. In the organization of the Szent István University of Gödöllő, Dunaversitas Association and the Folk College, we organized the film exhibition of small community televisions in Lakitelek for the 14th time this year in honor of the poet Sándor Csoóri at the beginning of November. 61 films were sent to the tournament, 22 of them won the finals. The main prize was Levente Vargyasi's sepsiszentgyörgyi director's piece Mesesek. This film survey in Lakitelek is a unique test for high-quality domestic and international surveys. The chairman of the jury is Sára Sándor Kossuth Prize-winning film director, and the composition of the 30-member professional jury has hardly changed for years. This year, too, there were student judges with over 300 students from Kecskemét, Kiskunfélegyháza, Kiskunmajsa, Nagykőrös, Csongrád and Tiszakécske, who decided on special prizes after internal disputes. Their attitude and interest were exemplary now. In the Kölcsey House at night, the discussion and discussion of filmmakers from all parts of the Carpathian Basin and the jury made a number of suggestions that I should convey to the professional wallet. László Csuja and György Farkas also said that in 1945 István Szőts, one of the great masters of Hungarian film history, made a comprehensive proposal on how to develop Hungarian film culture. István Szőts' timely proposal today was, among other things, the creation of film workshops. On the closing day of the film survey in Lakitelek, Sándor Sára described the post-life and distribution of films as unreasonably miserable, which would help if there was an institution that would unite distribution, because? Did you say that? The movie is born when you watch it. I quote the president of the first jury, Zoltán Bíró: in order for the works to be created, it is necessary, above all, to have workshops that can provide incentives, criticism and support for the individual work of art. These are the smaller or larger film studios, the film clubs, which once functioned in a value-creating way. It is enough to refer to the international golden age of Béla Balázs Studio. We therefore propose to consider the creation of a public budget guarantee fund that can provide security for film workshops. Valuable efforts? Even on the part of the wallet? have happened in recent years. Now I mention just a few: the purposeful work of the film and photography department of the Hungarian Academy of Arts, the activities of Sándor Buglya, the Cinema Film Workshop in Hungariankanizsa, the Bolyai Film Workshop in Zenta and the summer camp, the Multikult Student Film Festival, the Hungarian National Digital Archive, the Faludi Ferenc Academy, István Szőts' film workshop, the International Documentary Film Festival in Budapest in September, and I could name it a long time. Mr. Secretary. I recommend a substantial consultation of the jury members of the film review in Lakitelek, which formulates mature ideas. Because this film survey proves that we are rich in talented people, but we need permanent institutions and film workshops, even a film shop. Because without eternal truth, without man, nothing is possible, and without institution, nothing is permanent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[8.50]]
u2014-11-18-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Peter Hoppál responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-18-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for raising such an important topic in the line of speeches before the agenda. Allow me to appreciate the work, the activity carried out, in which the Lakitelek Folk College has paid very important attention to Hungarian cultural values over the past two decades, and is particularly concerned with the maintenance, care and assistance of the heritage of Hungarian cinema. They're doing a very important job. I would like to remind Mr President that in 2011, according to the Government's decision, the former poorly functioning film structure was transformed by the government, and as a result part of the tasks were transferred to the Hungarian National Film Fund, the other part to the Ministry of Human Resources, and the third part to the NMHH, the National Communications Authority. It is clear that these areas of expertise should be defined and well separated in order to ensure that everyone knows what task they are doing, and these work has started in recent years. The ambition that the Member has mentioned is very important, because through film and film works, a particular Hungarian identity is formed and developed over the last decades. The Member mentioned very important names, as István Szőts, standing on his legacy as a foundation, looking ahead from today's creators, our outstanding Kossuth-prize winner, Sándor Sára, who oversees this type of documentary endeavor, which is a very important branch of Hungarian cinema. It is also a priority and welcome effort to include, as much as possible, the artistic branch of our identity in artistic education and at all in the content of the curriculum. We can, of course, support this from the heart and with a good heart. The cooperation that the cultural wallet, the cultural secretary-general and the State Secretary for Public Education led by Judit Czunyiné Bertalan started in several steps is very important. We would very much like to see the transfer of cultural content to the broadest possible circles, this process, which is the government's current goal of organising basic cultural care, strengthened through children. Our aim is obviously that, within the school framework, we are trying to help and support these values, which the Member retains in the course of his activities in the residential sector, and on which this organisation has offered cooperation, we have also offered consultations. The film is a special treasure, our cultural value, not only to preserve it, not only to convert it into modern tools, but also to serve as an important goal and task in digitisation, but also to encourage and create contemporary works, which is also a special task. Of course, progress has already been made. The National Film Fund was created to encourage major works throughout the evening, which has now apparently begun to help and support script writing, film design development, their preparation, film production and after-work. By the way, within their framework, even an advocacy organization has been established in recent years, the Hungarian Film Academy, which aims to encourage the long-term development of Hungarian cinema and Hungarian film industry, to represent the interests of the film industry and of the artists working in the film industry. Of course, the Film Fund cannot undertake everything, so it is important that those documentary-minded works, those short films, those works with a smaller time range that would be left out of the Film Fund's activities, are also embraced. This year, only 64 million forints were available for the production of art and art films in the support system of the Ministry of Human Resources, and we have another funding fund in which 53 million forints were shown. I hope, honourable Member, that all the opportunities that we have for documentaries and artists to spend less money today can also be fulfilled and increased, and I thank you very much for your support for the consultation initiative that will allow representatives of the film industry to sit down with Sándor Sára and the civil society organisations that you team up with, we will organise the circumstances and opportunities of this already. Thank you very much for your speech. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-18-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We're gonna do a head count now. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Check to see if your card has been placed in the voting machine. All technical personnel, please make it possible to check the numbers. I would ask my fellow Members to press one of the buttons, one of the current buttons, on their voting machines. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including: This button? ? Defiance.]] I would also ask my fellow Members in the MSZP to make it possible to control the number of members. [[Shows on the scoreboard: 155 people are present, 42 people are away.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the Parliament has a quorum. [[For signal:]] Mr. György Balla's faction director asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to request a five-minute technical break before the decisions are taken. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-18-24	Dear Parliament, At the request of the Fidesz fraction, we will now take a five-minute technical break. I would like to ask my fellow Members not to leave the Chamber. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. ? Zoltán Grimlock: Has the two thirds already failed?]] The relevant requirement of house rules is that each faction has the right to request time. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We do not dispute that.]] Then, Congressman, why do you ask your rhetorical question? [[It's a short break.]] [[9.00]] Thank you very much for your understanding and patience. We will resume our session. Decisions will be taken. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: Bell!]] A final vote on the bill initiating the publication of the amended Convention of the European Satellite Telecommunications Organisation is now taking place. The submission was made in T/1856. was given to them. Since there is no committee for discussion on the bill and no amendment has been tabled, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1856 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 172 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The final vote of the bill on making the declarations set out in the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway on the surrender procedure between the Member States of the European Union and Iceland and Norway now follows. The submission was made in T/1762. was given to them. At yesterday's meeting, the debate on the Commission's report was already held by the Parliament. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1762. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 174 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Corruption in Strasbourg of 15 May 2003 and the publication of the 2002 XLIX Convention on Criminal Law of the Council of Europe on Corruption of 27 January 1999 in Strasbourg. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/58. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. T58/6. T58/7. He may have been recognized. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T58/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 177 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T58/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements follows. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and related legislation and a final vote. The submission was made in T/1707. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1707/17. T/1707/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group is T/1707/9. Amendments 10 and 10, the LMP Group, proposed amendments T/1707/11, 12 and 13, and Jobbik proposed to maintain amendments T/1707/5, 7 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/1707/8. Mr Sebestyén Vágó and Gábor Staudt put forward a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of Jobbik, T/1707/8. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 125 votes in favour and 29 votes in favour. T/1707/13. In the amendment tabled by Mr Schiffer András. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the LMP, T/1707/13. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 149 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. T/1707/11. András Schiffer also proposes amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the LMP, T/1707/11. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes, 148 votes and no abstentions. T/1707/9. Mr Gergely Bárándy and Mr Attila Harangozó put forward a proposal. This is an obligation to publish the Presidential Grace on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the T/1707/9 at the request of the MSZP. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 124 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. T/1707/5. Mr Staudt Gábor's proposal can be summarised in Amendment 1. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of Jobbik, T/1707/5. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment proposal with 26 votes in favour, 151 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. T/1707/12. In the amendment tabled by Mr Schiffer András. I ask the National Assembly whether T/1707/12 will maintain it at the request of the LMP. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 125 votes in favour and 26 votes in favour. T/1707/7. Mr Staudt Gábor's proposal can be found in Amendment 1. I ask the National Assembly if it maintains the T/1707/7 at Jobbik's request. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 21 votes, 159 votes and no abstentions. T/1707/10. The amendment proposed by Mr Gergely Bárándy and Mr Attila Harangozó. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the MSZP, T/1707/10. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 123 votes in favour and 23 votes in favour. [[9.10]] Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not kept up the amendments, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that points 2, 3 and 4 of this Decision require a qualified majority decision, the decision will be taken in two instalments. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1707/17. Point 2, 3 and 4 of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 1 against and 48 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1707/17. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 1 against and 49 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/1707/22. According to the cardinality provision of the single proposal No 5-8. § 10 and 11. Section 1 and Section 163. The vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present is necessary. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1707/22. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the part of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 125 votes in favour, 1 against and 54 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the simple majority of the single proposal by 126 votes in favour, 1 against and 54 abstentions. Following are the individual tax laws and other related laws, as well as the 2010 National Tax and Customs Office CXXII. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/1705. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. T/1705/51. T/1705/52. was available. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/1705/33, the fraction of the LMP is T/1705/33. and 35 and the MSZP faction requested that amendments T/1705/10, 11 and 12 be maintained. T/1705/10. Mr Nándor Gúr makes a proposal in the proposed amendment. The same amendment is initiated, but alternative to T/1705/33. Mr Schiffer and his fellow Members. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the MSZP, T/1705/10. Amendment No 1. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The cafeteria, just so you know!]] Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 126 against and without abstention, so it did not maintain it. Now T/1705/33. We are voting on an amendment to Amendment 3 which the LMP has requested to maintain. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1705/33 will maintain it at the request of the LMP. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 55 votes in favour, 126 against and 1 abstention. T/1705/12. In the proposed amendment, Zoltán Gőgös and his fellow Members make proposals. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the MSZP, T/1705/12. Amendment No 1. [[Zoltán Grimlock: VAT!]] Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 126 against and without abstention. [[Zoltán Haughty: Very wrong answer! Let's go, cheaters!]] T/1705/11. Zoltán Gőgös and his associates also propose amendments. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the MSZP, T/1705/11. Amendment No 1. [[Zoltán Grimlock: This is the other VAT!]] Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 126 against and 1 abstention. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Go, CBA!]] T/1705/35. Mr Schiffer and other Members proposed the amendment. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1705/35 will be maintained at the request of the LMP. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 127 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not kept up the amendments, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. The house rules are 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (2) of Article 89 of the LMP, points 67, 145 and 146 of the Government, points 53, 60 and 150 of the Fidesz, and KDNP requested a separate vote of Section 163 of the LMP. First we decide on these, then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. Dear House, In point 53 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall adopt its opinion in accordance with Article 76. Article 55 of the excise Act. The Commission proposes to supplement §2 of the Act with the possibility of reclaiming the personal taxi service. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Why are you reading these, Mr. President?]] At the request of Fidesz, we vote separately. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó:]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 53 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment point by 57 votes in favour, 125 votes against and no abstentions. In point 60 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall adopt its opinion in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 90. It amends the rules of the excise security. We vote at Fidesz's request. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 60 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 7 votes in favour, 126 against and 48 abstentions. In point 67 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall draw up its opinion in accordance with point 108. Paragraph 1 amends the VAT law. At the request of the government, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 67 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 146 votes in favour, 5 against and 32 abstentions. In point 89 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee amends the rules on telecommunications tax. At the request of the LMP, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 89 of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 181 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention. In point 145 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall initiate the amendment of the bill. We'll decide at the government's request. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 145 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 182 votes to one, with no abstention. [[9.20]] In point 146 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee limits the scope of the product fee payment obligation. At the request of the government, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 146 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment point by 54 votes in favour, 125 against and three abstentions. In point 150 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee will extend the scope of exempt services. At the request of Fidesz, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 150 of the summarised amendment proposal. K Medals, vote! [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment point by 55 votes in favour, 128 against and without abstentions. In point 163 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Committee shall initiate a title amendment in point 1 of Annex 16. We are voting at the request of KDNP. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 163 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment point by 53 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, On the other points of the summarised amendment proposal and on point II. We decide on grammatical clarifications. Among the latter is the bill 351. There are also motions for a grammatical amendment to §2 of the Act, which require a qualified majority. That's what we're gonna decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1705/51. Draft amendment No 2 II. Article 351 of the bill. Proposals to clarify the provisions of Section 2 of this Article. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 29 against and 25 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now voting on the parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1705/51. The other parts of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the simple majority of the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 30 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that Parliament did not accept all points of the summary amendment proposal, [[From the letters of the orange inscriptions placed on the back of the laptops on the table of MSZP representatives, the following text can be found: STOP 2/3. ? MSZP representatives are leaving the meeting room. ? Moore in the pro-government benches.]] In the final vote, we are now deciding on the text of the bill, as amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I would like to inform you that the bill is 381. § 2 of the Act provides for the scope of the fundamental provisions. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1705 accepts it. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the amended bill by 128 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. [[Szabolcs Szabó applauds.]] We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the amended bill. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the simple majority of the amended bill by 127 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. It follows a decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending the laws concerning certain municipalities and the final vote. Independent motion by Mr Antal Rogán and other Members T/1919. Number 2 is available on the IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1919.19. T/1919-20. appeared and was available. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/1919/5. Amendment 3 and the Jobbik Group initiated the continuation of Amendments T/1919-9, 11 and 13. That's what we decide first. T/1919-5. Proposal for an amendment, tabled by Mr Schiffer András. This includes an obligation to issue an interim election. In view of the abandonment, a simple majority is sufficient to maintain the proposal. I ask you if this proposal is being maintained. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 126 against and without abstention. The T/1919-9. Mr Loránt Hegedűs and Mr Gábor Staudt proposed amendments. I ask you if this proposal is being maintained. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 130 against and 1 abstention. T/1919-11. MEPs Loránt Hegedűs and Gábor Staudt also propose amendments. I ask you if this proposal is being maintained. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 25 votes in favour, 129 against and 3 abstentions. T/1919-13. Mr Loránt Hegedűs and Gábor Staudt also proposed amendments. In order to maintain this proposal, two thirds of the Members present must vote in favour. I ask you if this proposal is being maintained. Please vote. [[Vote. ? Result appearing on the board: 7 yes, 149 no, 2 stays.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 7 votes in favour, 149 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section T/1919 of the MSZP, the group of the MSZP is the T/1919. The Group of the Fidesz Group asked for a separate vote on point 2 of the summary amendment proposal and on points 2 and 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/1919-19. In points 2 and 3 of the consolidated amendment proposal, the Committee shall draw up its opinion in accordance with Article 4 (2) and (3). Section 5 is deleted and Article 5 is deleted. Paragraph 1 proposes to amend the wording of paragraph 1. The provision provides for the possibility for the county municipality to determine its head office in the municipality of the county seat. The adoption of point 3 requires a qualified majority and, in the light of the context, we also decide on point 2 according to the rules of the qualified majority at the same time. The separate voting of points 2 and 3 was initiated by the Fidesz, the MSZP. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts points 2 and 3 of the summarised amendment. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment points by 6 votes in favour, 149 against and 2 abstentions. [[9.30]] Now the summary We will decide on further points of an emaciating proposal. In view of the fact that the adoption of points 4 and 5 requires a qualified majority, a decision will therefore be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts points 4 and 5 of the summarised amendment. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amendment points requiring a qualified majority by 126 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstention. We now decide on point 1 that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 1 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 126 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament did not accept all the points of the summary amendment proposal, we must also decide on the legislative proposal that has been amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment in the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill is the 18th. § 2 of the Act provides for the scope of the fundamentality provisions. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a qualified majority by 126 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the amended bill. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 123 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws relating to judicial and private law. The submission was made in T/1929. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1929/3. and the summary report is T/1929/4. was available. Now it's time for the decisions. We will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1929/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 150 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. May I draw your attention to the T/1929/5. As provided for in Article 10 of the Single Proposal No. § 2 and Annex 2 require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1929/5. The Single Proposal No 1 requires a qualified majority. Please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority part of the single proposal by 152 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the simple majority of the single proposal by 153 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, on the request of the Jobbik Group, the Parliament has already carried out the T/1548 on the taxation of luxury swimming pools. The debate on the inclusion of Bill No. 1 in the series of articles. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you, will you include in a series of questions Mr President Novák T/1548. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 30 votes in favour, 120 against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. After a two-minute technical break, we will continue our work with the general debates. [[It's a short break. ? Several Members leave the room. ? A pro-government representative enters the empty lines of the MSZP fraction and folds the top of the laptop with the first letter of STOP 2/3, thus changing the inscription to TOP 2/3.]] Dear Parliament, In order to continue our work, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber now because of their urgent duty, to do so as quickly and as quietly as possible, because Mr Secretary of State would like to say the expose of the first item on the agenda. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on the amendment of certain financial legislation to the deposit guarantee and the financial intermediary system will follow until closure. The submission was made in T/1996. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Orbán, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, who will speak at the ministerial place. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-18-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The primary objective of the bill is to transpose the new European Union directives on the financial intermediary system, to ensure more precise compliance with certain previously adopted directives, to establish a financial intermediary system, provisions for the efficient functioning of the financial sector, and, in this context, to adapt amendments and clarifications to ensure the coherence of legislation. As you know, the NEC Act entered into force on 1 January of this year. There have been significant regulatory changes. Since then, the regulation on banks has been constantly evolving, and this bill is in line with what has now been tabled. One of the key elements of this? if it's not the most important part? changes to the deposit guarantee scheme. [[9.40]] It contains very important modernisation, customer-friendly and consumer protection measures. On 16 April this year, the European Parliament and the Council adopted the new Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive. The new directive replaces a regulation that entered into force in 1994 with a view to ensuring uniform protection for depositors throughout the European Union and enhancing the stability of the banking system. In order to ensure uniform protection of depositors, the Directive establishes common requirements for deposit guarantee schemes. It is also customary to consider this as one of the pillars of the Banking Union. In Hungary, the National Deposit Insurance Fund started operating in 1993. In principle, the credit institution system that collects deposits provides its liabilities with an exceptional fee each year, if necessary. If the fund's funds are not sufficient to compensate depositors of a failing credit institution, the OBA may borrow or issue a bond in addition to a public guarantee to pay out the defaulted credit institution. OBA has in all cases fulfilled its obligation to indemnify depositors from its own funds, without borrowing, within the prescribed indemnification period. The new rules on the OBA of this submitted bill amend the scope of deposits subject to deposit guarantee, supplementing the provisions on the obligation to provide information on deposit guarantee to credit institutions and the provisions on the financing of the OBA. I would like to emphasise the latter, the regulation of financing, which is of particular importance; the definition of how credit institutions provide OBA with the resources necessary for the obligation to indemnify it is essential. It is important for the OBA to have pre-collected funds and, if part of this is necessary in the course of the compensation, so that the resources of the OBA are used to compensate depositors, this should be gradually replenished, this should be properly regulated. This direction, this principle has already been applied in our country, so it can be said that in this sense we have been ahead of EU legislation, and there is no substantive change in this, so it is not a change in principle, but a harmonisation of domestic deposit guarantee legislation with the new Deposit Guarantee Directive. In line with this, the bill amends the rules on fees in order to ensure that the fund's funds are proportionate to the Fund's obligations. What does this look like exactly? The high level of protection I have told requires that OBA's assets reach the target level set by law in ten years. Thus, by 2024 the accumulated assets in the OBA as a fund should reach 0,8 per cent of the deposits subject to the indemnification obligation. If the assets of the OBA would be significantly reduced after reaching the target level for the first time, the amount of regular payments should be fixed at a level that will reach the target level again within a further 6 years. The bill also broadens the scope of deposits, as I have already mentioned, to extend the deposit guarantee to deposits from municipalities with an annual budget of less than EUR 500 thousand, given that the freezing of deposits in the event of a financial institution's malfunction could cause a very serious liquidity problem for such a relatively small municipality. In accordance with the rules of the new Directive, debt securities issued by credit institutions, i.e. debt securities, are excluded from the compensation by the fact that what is already issued until it expires, is still covered by the protection. Since 1 January 2010, this amount of HUF 100 thousand, perhaps known to everyone, has been the maximum amount of compensation. This bill allows, in some cases, for a short transitional period, the application of a higher amount of HUF 150 thousand than an indemnification limit. This may, for example, be the case where a private person places money from the sale of residential property, severance payments or insurance. Here, however, the condition of compensation is that the depositor opens a separate account and confirms to the credit institution the source of the deposit. The bill also amends the deadline for compensation in order to give depositors access to their claims as soon as possible. Fast payments have been extremely important to maintain the trust of depositors, and this will then work even more effectively. The payment deadline is gradually reduced from the current 20 working days to 7 working days until 2024. At the same time, the possibility of an extension will cease. It is important to note that the operation of the OBA, based on the experience so far, is already under relatively good conditions for this cut-off. It is already common that payments have been made with a much shorter deadline than 20 days. The proposal also specifies in which cases the compensation period may be longer than that provided for. For example, if it is uncertain whether the person concerned is entitled to compensation at all or whether the deposit itself is subject to dispute, if the deposit is subject to a higher compensation limit, the duration of the compensation may extend beyond the time limit laid down by law. I mentioned that the bill places particular emphasis on better information for depositors. In order to ensure uniform information for depositors, the content of the information form is set out in the Annex. The prospectus should not only be passed on to new depositors but should be made available at least once a year to consumers who already have deposits. Since electronic solutions are already widespread among customers when using banking services, of course, if the depositor is using an Internet banking service, it is sufficient to provide information electronically. Dear Parliament, I would like to say a few words again about the regulation of the capital market, which is reflected in this bill. For someone who has been sitting in these benches for a long time, it may be boring to come back with a bill to ensure the proper functioning of the domestic capital market sector, and to fulfil our related EU legal harmonisation obligations, but the fact is that it is important for the EU single market to maintain competition and to strengthen the domestic capital market. [[9.50]] There is a great deal of emphasis in this area in the European Union. Legislation is constantly in order to achieve a more uniform and harmonised legislative environment. Within the framework of the European Union, we too need to catch up on this and, in many cases, to adapt our existing legislation. The involvement in capital market processes and the activities of domestic capital market players now include the presence on the EU market, and therefore we need to comply with EU legislation. This is not only a legal order, but it is also in the interest of the companies operating here. Domestic legislation is only appropriate if it helps those active on the domestic market to engage in EU market processes if we create the conditions for cross-border activity in the Member States. This is the only way we can achieve competitive domestic businesses. As a result of continued EU rules, domestic compliance must also be continuous, which is why we are talking so much about capital market regulation in this House. Moreover, in most cases this alignment is increasingly a means of repealing domestic legislation, so it is not a new regulation, but rather of abolishing legislation. Since it is increasingly common for the European Union to regulate these issues at regulation level instead of directives, which also apply directly in Hungarian law, the laws in this sense are no longer valid. Rather, we are creating the alignment of the regulations that form part of the single European rule book with domestic law. This is also the case with the regulation on improving securities settlement and CSDs, which entered into force in September of the year. In order to ensure consistency with this Regulation, we have made the necessary amendments and proposals for repeal in the Capital Markets Act. These concern, in particular, the central securities register and the Central Value Reserve which manages central securities accounts, facilitate the smooth functioning of securities settlement processes and the compliance with uniform Union standards and the proper functioning thereof. Transparency is one of the important calling words in the EU. In many areas, including in your capital markets, some further amendments to the Capital Markets Act have also become necessary in order to ensure the transparency of the activities of individual actors. In addition, the proposal ensures more precise compliance with the rules and directives on alternative investment fund managers already implemented in the domestic legal order. This is so that investment funds and fund managers can operate even more effectively. The clarifications concerning the regulation of investment firms and commodity services and service providers were made primarily in order to ensure consistency with the provisions resulting from changes made to the credit institution law. Legislation is also ongoing in the EU legislation of credit institutions. This implies that investment firms and commodity service providers are able to fit well with the new credit institution regulations. Dear Parliament, The proposed legislation also contains a number of substantive changes to the rules governing the institution of the Commissioner for Supervisors. In accordance with the provisions in force, if the supervised institution has been seconded as an exceptional measure, the Commissioner has taken full control of the institution, the members of the Management Board shall not exercise their rights and obligations laid down in the laws and statutes. In the future, however, it will be possible for the Commissioner to take over only certain powers, so that management and board members can maintain certain powers to resolve the institution's fate in cooperation with the Commissioners. It also changes, remaining with the Commissioner for Supervisors, the range of persons who may be appointed as supervisory commissioners. At present, under the current rules, only a non-profit company which carried out the liquidation of the institutions could be ordered, which designated the person acting as commissioner with that institution. In the future, however, under the new regulations, it would also be possible to appoint an employee of the Hungarian National Bank with a supervisory function. In this case, the Commissioner may also be instructed by the MNB to take responsibility for the damage caused by his capacity as Commissioner. Dear House, Allow me one last sentence. I would like to mention that the adaptation of EU standards to the domestic legislative environment was carried out in consultation with the relevant stakeholders, taking into account both the need for a further efficient and secure functioning of the regulated sector and the need for investors, consumer regulators and markets. So once again, a summary sentence on the purpose of the proposed bill, if I may say, is to strengthen the protection of depositors, to increase the effectiveness of financial and capital market regulation, to bring about integration with the EU legal order and to establish a regulation that leads to a customer-friendly, consumer-friendly financial environment. I would therefore ask you to support the proposals tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-18-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will speak in the first round. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Congressman Roland Mengyi. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On the sound of deposit protection, the word deposit guarantee, some people may sway, because, although we have heard about the crisis that some people have lost their money, the average person still thinks that this can't happen to me. However, not so long ago, in the context of the situation of several savings cooperatives, we have all witnessed how topical this topic is and how not just a theoretical problem it is. Since the beginning of 2010, the National Deposit Insurance Fund's money has been needed for a total of six credit institutions, all of which have been cooperative credit institutions. Only three savings cooperatives went bankrupt this year. According to the calculations of one of the economic online newspapers, the fund has paid 122 billion forints in the last five years. The subject is therefore far from marginal. Several questions arise when we talk about deposit protection. What happens when a financial institution goes bankrupt? What about the money from the depositors? Who and how does it help, and how do life's savings go to waste? Depositors, especially those who place their small savings at the financial institution, can be relatively calm; they have a solution to such a situation. They don't even have to wait to see if the financial institution's assets are enough to pay off their deposits, their money. For this purpose, the National Deposit Insurance Fund was established in 1993. But there are more specific cases, larger amounts, and more far-reaching aspects at EU level. Allow me to give you some of these points before I outline the main elements of the bill. The depositary14. The European Union Directive, to which the draft before us also wishes to comply, contains some points to be considered for us. [[10.00]] Over the last decade, the crisis has led to deposit protection becoming an essential component of the completion of the internal market and an indispensable complement to credit institutions and supervisory systems. The institution was created as a result of solidarity between all institutions on the financial market in question, which could provide a kind of safety net in the event of either of them being insolvent. The scenario for the development of the financial world and the banking sector has changed considerably over the last thirty years. The opening up of markets has led to a globalization of financial systems, which has then resulted in the emergence and proliferation of tax and regulatory tomatoes. Increasing competition at global level has encouraged the emergence of new financial institutions, new products and new services. The fate of large banking groups has shown the limits of growth beyond the limits of proper management discipline. In the future, these groups will reduce their size in order to make their operation more robust with a less spectacular, more predictable flow of profit, without any extravagant bonuses. Once the state and international aid introduced as a result of the financial crisis has ceased, the further development of the sector as a whole will certainly be determined by the development of economic activity and new technologies, but above all by the strategies of certain institutions that are well-farmed. Banks need to continue to be able to lend reliably to the real economy and to bear higher financing costs and declining profits. We can agree that the banking sector, with an average share of 5 per cent of EU GDP, should be the primary task of financing the real economy, with a particular emphasis on innovative businesses, the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises that are the engine of the European economy and the security of bank depositors' savings. The Commission has taken a number of measures to strengthen the capital structure and the ability of banks to finance the economy. The Commission's Directive clearly states that the responsibility of bank managers and national, European and internal control bodies should be clearly and more clearly defined to promote ethical behaviour based on transparent rules. The measures aimed at strengthening the capital structure in the Directive include higher and better quality equity, greater risk coverage, appropriate leverage ratio and a new approach to liquidity. CSDs, together with CCPs, should make a significant contribution to the protection of financial markets. In addition, it is important that securities transactions be executed properly and in a timely manner, even at periods where financial stress is extremely high. As CSDs have a key role in the settlement process, the securities settlement systems they operate are of systemic importance for the functioning of securities markets. Given the increasing number of cross-border settlements due to agreements between CSDs, there is doubt as to the extent to which CSDs are resistant to the spill-over effects of risks to CSDs in other Member States in the absence of common prudential rules. Despite the increase in cross-border settlements, changes to a more integrated market for CSD services, driven by the market, have proved very slow. If there were an open internal market for securities settlement in the Union, all investors would be able to invest in any EU securities equally easily and using the same procedures as those applied to domestic securities. At the same time, the Union settlement market remains fragmented across national borders and cross-border settlement is more costly due to differences in national standards governing settlement and the activities of CSDs and the limited degree of competition between CSDs. This fragmentation hinders and makes cross-border settlement more risky and costly. As CSDs are significant from a systemic point of view, competition between them should be encouraged in order to allow market participants to choose between service providers and to reduce dependence on an infrastructure provider. Since there are no identical obligations for market participants and there are no common prudential rules for CSDs, different measures taken at national level may have an adverse effect on security, efficiency and competition in the Union settlement markets. These significant obstacles to the functioning of the internal market should be removed and distortions of competition should be eliminated and the future development of such barriers and distortions should be prevented. For the proper functioning of the internal market, an integrated market for securities settlement should be established which does not distinguish between securities transactions involving one Member State and cross-border transactions. In a broad sense, these are the aspects that the European Commission has considered in its directive when it adopted Regulation 909 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on CSDs. Now, a few words about the main elements of the bill. First of all, in a series of changes to the deposit guarantee rules, we must highlight the new possibility of ensuring deposits from the municipality if their annual budget does not exceed EUR 500 000. In view of the fact that this may cause liquidity problems for smaller municipalities, the proposal also extends the deposit guarantee to deposits of those belonging to the municipal sub-sector of general government. The Deposit Guarantee Directive? with regard to the shorter compensation period? no longer allows for exclusion where the deposit is held by a senior staff member, auditor or a person with a holding of at least 5%. Nor shall deposits be excluded for which there is a significantly higher interest rate compared to deposits of the same size and duration of booking and deposits in the currency of a non-euro or other OECD State are not excluded. However, debt securities issued by credit institutions should be excluded from the compensation. However, the transitional provision of the proposal ensures that securities issued before 2 July 2015 are still subject to the existing rules in the event of compensation until their expiry. The bill removes the special Hungarian regulation on so-called community deposits. Under the Directive, the compensation does not exceed EUR 100 thousand per depositor. The limit shall apply to each identifiable depositor. Under the current rules, the compensation limit for deposits of condos, housing associations and building societies should be taken into account separately for each housing or for each person forming the community, without the registration of the persons forming the community. The proposal also provides for a transition to existing deposits and requires credit institutions to provide information by 31 March 2015. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). From 1 January 2010, EU regulations have harmonised the amount of compensation in EUR 100 thousand. This limit is also the upper ceiling of the compensation amount in order to prevent distortions of competition. In this case, only the lower limit was established. However, the new Directive, in relation to the personal situation of depositors, requires that an amount of compensation be granted for a limited period of at least 3 months up to 12 months; this provision is clearly a move in the direction of consumer protection. Member States should therefore ensure that, in the case of deposits from certain transactions or for certain social and other purposes, the Deposit Insurance Fund pays for the damage. These deposits should be subject to a temporary maximum compensation limit, taking into account living conditions within Member States. [[10.10]] In some cases? such as housing sales, termination of employment or pension benefits? the proposal provides for compensation of up to EUR 150 000 for three months. In addition, the deposits concerned shall be placed in a separate account on the basis of proof of the deposit's indication and source at the time of deposit. The facilitation: for customers, the payout deadline for the current 20 working days is reduced to seven working days. There are also changes in the rules on the provision of information to depositors. Consumers already with deposits shall be indicated on the statement of account whether they are covered by the deposit guarantee and shall also refer to the prospectus set out in the Annex, which shall be made available to the depositors at least annually. The coverage ratio of the National Deposit Insurance Fund is significantly lower than the target level of 0.8 per cent of the Directive thanks to the compensation procedures launched in 2014, and should therefore be included in the proposal. The provisions determining the basis for the payment of the fee should also be amended. Deposits subject to an indemnification obligation shall be taken into account instead of the total amount of deposits secured. The rules on the Commissioner for Supervisors are also changing in line with the EU Directive. In the future, it will not only be possible for the Commissioner to take over the full authority of the Bank's governing body, but also to take control of it in part. In the case of securities issues and issuers, the detailed rules of the prospectus to be published shall be amended by the submission, which shall increase the transparency of the issue of these papers. The proposal also clarifies the rules on risk management for alternative investment fund managers and harmonises terminology with the Civil Code, the Capital Markets Act and the Investment Business and Stock Exchange Providers Act. Dear House, At first sight, the bill may seem like a dry, bureaucratic salad law, but it is not, in view of its importance, because after such minor changes to the rules, we can only be sure that we have learned from previous shortcomings. A disaster such as the 2008 crisis will no longer occur, or human omissions will not be paid by people who have previously given credit to different banks and financial institutions. If you agree with these objectives, please support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We're going to continue the lead speakerial round. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-29	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to begin my speech as Chief Speaker where the lead speaker before me has just left. However, I believe that the financial crisis vortexes like 2008 do overlap, and the current global economic situation and the continuous blowing of the financial balloon actually encode the fact that similar events will happen from time to time. The question is how prepared we will be in this regard, and how a nation state and national economy at a level similar to Hungary can eliminate the spill-over effects that actually destroyed the Hungarian economy after 2008. In this respect, therefore, we have a very important bill ahead of us, and I say that this is worthy of negotiation compared to the average government referrals so far. So we can certainly see a kind of positive shift here, at least in terms of the topic. Once again, the fact that this has been presented in the form of salad makes it very difficult for both pro-government and opposition representatives to do so, as we will certainly find points in it that will either be resolved incompletely, or this will be done with amazing proportions. But let's try to get past this and improve what can be improved. Obviously, if our improving proposals can be accepted, then we can even think about supporting such a financial type of salad. It can be seen that the government is in a hurry at the same time, since this is mainly about the implementation of an EU directive, which was adopted in April 2014. We are not used to liking these EU directives, and we, Jobbiques, do not like it very much when, without any substantial amendment, they are recoding the legislation in the Hungarian legal system that is invented elsewhere, but it is certain that even the European Union itself expects this transposition until July 2015. However, the government is doing this at a rapid pace, without addressing very important details that are essential for Hungarian depositors. At the moment, at first glance, the viewer sees that about 99,6 percent of Hungarian depositors are fully protected, so he does not have a bank deposit for the Deposit Insurance Fund which, in case of trouble, cannot be guaranteed safely by the system that has existed, but yet we can see that a disguised tax increase is taking place here. The deposit guarantee rate was previously below 0.1 per cent, then it reached 0.1 per cent, and the increase to 0.14 now is clearly a fee that can be passed on under an uncontrolled system, can be incorporated into prices, different multipliers, rates, and again we can say that this otherwise justified increase? Because I'm saying that broadening this buffer is entirely justified? Once again, it can only hit customers, consumers and citizens, which is completely unacceptable for an economic structure where, in 2010, 34 taxes were taken over by the then Orbán government, 41 to the previous change of government, and since then, due to the introduction of new taxes and the increase in previous taxes, the number of tax types, tax types, which are largely charged to the population or to the population, is now approaching 45. Can it come up here? And is this a very important question that I ask you to answer to the competent person? How, after increasing the volume and volume of this tariff rate rate rate, it can be avoided, that it is perfectly and fully incorporated into the prices of services, so that it is ultimately paid by Hungarian citizens. In Jobbik's view, this would be intolerable, so we need to prevent and prevent similar processes, but this requires a well-educated, thought-out system of instruments. We do not see a trace of this in this proposal, which is why, if not, the deadline set for you in July 2015 would allow you to come up with a formula, where appropriate, at the end of a more thoughtful workflow, to ensure the genuine security of depositors in respect of these transfers. But there is one other aspect, looking at all this from a slightly wider spectrum, which is often ignored, namely that this otherwise very useful safety net and its expansion also increase some speculating space. It increases the scope for speculation in the case of institutions, financial undertakings, where, with a larger buffer, larger safety zones, bolder economic processes can indeed take place. And who, then, would set sail for these bolder waters? Obviously, companies and financial institutions with a larger background, where appropriate with a foreign background, which can do this more easily, with a more minimal risk. They are the ones who most often incorporate and pass on the increase in fees to their different items. In addition, the new legislative proposals, which either have already been negotiated by the House or will be negotiated, build up and allow room for a process where, in the present case, a financial institution, in a similar case, does not set the maximum interest rate level, which we say is permitted by a bill, so that it will drop interest levels somewhere in line with market processes, then later if it wishes to compensate for its supposedly lost income, it can raise and compensate at any time up to the permitted interest rate level. Therefore, transfers of a billion-dollar magnitude can again be made to the benefit of financial institutions, again from the injured side, which is not certain to increase the security of depositors in a system, therefore, in the light of these legislative proposals and in view of this salad package. So we have strong fears that future compensations and their levels will not extinguish the safety net that we are now supposed to be trying to strengthen around depositors. And let us also talk about the fact that, in the absence of a well-thought-out system, all sorts of similar displacements also move public funds. In the past, the volume of deposit guarantee was also partly built up by public funds; fortunately, this has now been filtered out, and fortunately, the institutions concerned are adding this item together. However, it has to be seen what happened to the exchange rate differential when the local government involved a so-called currency loan pool. So what happened when the municipality had a so-called foreign currency loan? Obviously, the state has taken over most of this. [[10.20]] What, then, happened to the huge exchange rate differential that could be said not to be covered by public money? So it is possible that a kind of accounting process could have been used to reach an agreement that would not be financed by taxpayers, but that was the case. If we are talking again about allowing similar formulas, the Hungarian government of Hungary is allowing room for these at the moment, increasing the security buffer in relation to the Deposit Insurance Fund, allowing more speculative behaviour to certain types of operations of certain financial institutions, then, indeed, these risks will not decrease, but increase. So the question is? And to sum it up, I think the fate of this salad will be decided, and whether it can be maintained, is it eligible, can it be voted? , that July 2015? for you, by the way, in an amazing way, again from Brussels, a deadline is set for the government of Hungary to reschedule and reschedule certain directives for how long? Therefore, given their deadline in July 2015, the reason for this haste, why this change has now come before us. Obviously, it also includes the possibility of collecting more from the relevant institutions in 2015 but we also need to see that if it is not built around this other safety net that we are talking about, this fee increase will be passed on to customers, the population, the consumers, which is completely unacceptable in an incredibly overtaxed system, such as the one we are talking about. Once again, we are waiting for the answer to this key issue in the debate, and we are very confident that the government will be able to resolve these doubts both professionally and politically. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-18-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-18-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Another financial salad law has come before the House, with which the Orbán government and George Matolcsy central bank president can spend huge amounts of money on vague transactions. According to the current proposal, typically foreign banks receive state aid in exchange for selling their daughter banks in Hungary. We wouldn't be surprised at the fact that the customers are now close to Fidesz. The last salad law made me do this, and from what I've seen, that seems to be your intention? Whatever it takes. I don't want to be accused of unreasonable criticism, so I'll tell you quickly what part of the salad law we can accept. Of course, the mandatory adoption of EU directives is such an element. The LMP also welcomes the strengthening of the state guarantee for deposits of less than EUR 100,000. It is even glad that the banks and brokerage firms in difficulty are being helped out by resolution, so it is not tax forints that help the National Bank. Classic methods would be very good for that. The problem begins when Mr. Matolcsy tries to implement his ideas. Unortodox experiments have already cost the country very much. The bill we are discussing now increases this cost and risk. In recent days, MARK, the Hungarian Reorganization and Demand Management Ltd. has already been established, which was created by the Hungarian National Bank in order to take over the failed real estate loans of commercial banks. It is planned to reduce the country's financial resources by another HUF 300 billion in public money. What the MNB will do with questionable real estate developments, malls, hotels and luxury office buildings, perhaps György Matolcsy doesn't know. Not only do they not benefit, but they also need to be spent on maintenance and guarding. There is a classic way to help banks. According to this, central banks are attempting to transfer services and credit holdings of a credit institution in difficulty to another market participant as soon as possible, within a regulated framework. With the protection of insured depositors in mind, do they aim at the main services of the troubled institution concerned? Like keeping an account? its continuity. This form of resolution, i.e. support for financial institutions, does not cost taxpayers a penny. Resolution is an alternative to public-funded expensive bank bailouts because it acts as a kind of insurance. The resolution fund is financed by contributions from banks and other financial institutions. However, the central bank led by György Matolcsy proudly mentions that it does not use the classic tools. I have to admit, this is a time of concern, and hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are entitled to worry. The problems usually begin when it turns out that Mr Matolcsy intends to use other financial instruments for extraordinary situations. Two main types of these extraordinary bank assistance instruments are known. A solution could be the application of the so-called bridge bank. This means that the strategically important loan pool will be transferred to a temporarily existing public bank until its subsequent market sale. At least then we know we're not buying a buoy. Another solution is the creation of a bad bank, when problematic assets of questionable value are drawn from the banks' balance sheets; this is called the cleaning up of the loan portfolio, the loan portfolio. The central bank led by Matolcsy has voted for the wrong bank. According to the ideas of the Hungarian Government and the National Bank, the central bank and the State would finance this bad bank, not the resolution, in which they would collect dubious loans. With the password of boosting corporate lending, they want to replace and purchase very risky corporate loans, which cost nearly HUF 800 billion at cost, spending at least HUF 300 billion. The problem is that the government and the central bank's misconceptions are fundamentally flawed for at least five reasons. Firstly, it is extremely difficult to establish real value and realistic goods for problematic loans. Secondly, it is not only about creating the necessary capital, but also about getting rid of these bad loans very slowly, so they will be tied down for a number of years and will not profit in any way. Over the years, public funds for the creation of the wrong bank will simply be inhibited. Thirdly, these so-called other money market instruments? Like bad bank, real estate purchases, extraordinary credit? the central bank led by Matolcsy is likely to continue to use it inaccessiblely, uncontrollablely, at the expense of our common money and reserves. If this trend continues? And that's what we're seeing? This could also result in a loss of confidence in the central bank's credibility and in the Hungarian state. Moreover, if central bank purchases reach a critical level, they may cause significant distortions in market prices. Finally, let us not forget that with direct central bank intervention, the central bank is also present in the same market as an investor and regulator and as a supervisor; this is like when the judge joins the game at the football game. Mr Matolcsy, ignoring all of this, said that he felt that the implementation of the bad banking concept was a necessity. But what is the compulsion to charge the cost of bad corporate credit to the state, the taxpayers? They say otherwise corporate lending wouldn't recover. But how is that possible? Maybe the economy isn't doing any better? Only state stadium construction draws up economic indicators? Or is it because, despite the $6 billion advertising tender, only a limited number of small businesses still benefit from the growth credit programme? What could be this coercion, which justifies an ever faster recovery and spending of central bank reserves? But we can look at it from somewhere else. If we have so much money to spread, then what is the need for a massive debt-taking Paks loan in the country? ? We'll ask. [[10.30]] Or if we want to do business with the banks instead of the Russians, why not expand the resources of the National Asset Manager by hundreds of billions? We could create an extensive public real estate market, which could be an important pillar of a rental program. For at least HUF 300 billion in the implementation of the bad banking concept, the government and the central bank would take over loans from banks primarily behind the financing of commercial properties, offices, malls and hotels, while not even a tenth of this amount has been available in recent years to help families in need who cannot pay their loans. It is unacceptable for LMP to purchase commercial property from available domestic sources instead of helping families in trouble without their own faults. Of course, the government and Mr Matolcsy's financial stunts usually have a good reason, usually not what they say. Let's scrape the surface a little bit. Let's see what the real meaning of a bad bank is. According to the President of the Central Bank, some foreign-owned banks in Hungary were given signals that they would leave the country. According to Mr Matolcsy, if bad loans were to be cleared from bank balance sheets, promising new buyers could apply to some banks, i.e. the central bank would support a major restructuring of the banking system's ownership by taking over poorly placed corporate loans. This government has confessed its ambition for years. Now it's obvious that the taxpayers' money will be spent on this, whether they have to or not. But at least the same problem is that the spending of the bank led by György Matolcsy is not transparent, it is not traceable. The risk of any such State involvement, potentially affecting central bank reserves, is the end of Hungary's future. There is a need for immediate changes in this area. In the interests of a more efficient state and a better functioning economy, the transparency and control of central bank activity must be increased. We can't wait a minute with this. The MNB collects a profit of nearly HUF 100 billion from the HUF 309 forinting of foreign currency loans. In recent months, we have seen what the MNB is doing with the profits achieved at the weak forint. We know that you spent a total of 350 billion forints on the purchase of luxury palaces with offshore backgrounds, artifacts and funding foundations promoting Matolcsy's unorthodox economic theories. We therefore call on the government and fellow Members to make sure that, until the transparency of the central bank is ensured, they do not allow the above-mentioned ideas to be prevented from moving hundreds and thousands of billion forints into private pockets by circumventing the mask of central bank independence. We understand that it would be nice for Fidesz to play some commercial banks into the hands of close-up money people, but there are a thousand more pressing problems in Hungary, and there is no money for that. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-18-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak to independent representatives if they are present in the Chamber, but they are not present, so this cannot be done accordingly. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. In this connection, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-33	Mr President, Dear House, I think it is amazing that not only does the MSZP not have a keynote speaker on such an important presentation, nor does it have a representative in the Chamber or at all, but unfortunately we could not hear the position of the KDNP, which many would have been very interested to hear. I have yet to ask one more clarification question, since, in the absence of a list of pre-sent speakers, it is clear that the government is not planning a serious debate here on this issue, but I still have to ask the question of how the government or its State Secretary responds from a strategic approach to what happens if, say, a larger bank closes in Hungary. Roland Mengyi put the bug in my ear that he thought the crisis vortex like that of 2008 might not be expected anymore. I'm still afraid of that. So with the continuous blowing of the financial balloon, I'm still afraid that these crisis vortexes are going to follow each other, and we can only get better and better at handling this. But still, what happens when a larger bank closes, which, let's say, is no longer enough for the tens of billions or even a hundred billion-dollar reserve that we are all interested in maintaining? In this case, the OBA will try to borrow from the market in addition to a state guarantee, I think, with a good chance of success, but let's just say that it is a near state crisis that will be the cause of such a state guarantee, and even if we say at the same time, not a large bank, but more will be in trouble, for example, because the foreign exchange-credit settlement has been screwed up, measured, and precisely because of their incredibly mistreated forintification plans, we can get to the point that hundreds, thousands of lawsuits will start, and here, thanks to the mines you have not noticed, the victims will win these lawsuits against the banks. So my question and our question is what action plan and scenario they have for such a series of cases. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-18-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Dénes Galambos. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The aim of the proposal before us is to ensure the proper functioning of the capital market sector and to fulfil our obligations in relation to harmonisation of EU law. In order to increase the effectiveness of the regulation, the proposal amends the 2001 CXX on the capital market. Act CXXXVIII of 2007 on investment firms and commodity service providers and the rules for their activities. Act No XVI of 2014 on collective investment schemes and their managers and amending certain laws on financial matters Law. The proposal brings domestic legislation into line with the rules of the depositary14. Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down rules on CSDs and securities settlement. In addition, it transposes 2010/73 governing the transparency of securities issues and securities issuers. EU Directive 2011/61 on alternative investment fund managers EU Directive and 2013/36, which regulates the prudential supervision of investment firms in addition to the regulation of credit institutions. EU Directive. Taking into account the above directives, the bill amends the scope of depositors subject to deposit guarantee protection, the provisions on the financing of the scheme and the rules on the provision of information to depositors. In view of the fact that the bill before us is the depositary14. The European Parliament and the Council are introducing a regulation on domestic law, so it is worth considering in a slightly broader context the motivations of the European Union when it makes directives or decisions aimed at greater supervision of financial institutions. Please allow me, below, to present the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee, for which the already mentioned depositary14. A directive was also built. This so-called own-initiative opinion examines the changes that new financial regulation will bring to the European banking sector. The opinion contains a number of points that deserve consideration, which will help us to understand why the EU rules on financial market law need to be changed and, accordingly, domestic harmonisation. Although the EU has been critical of the form of banking introduced by our country, when studying Commission recommendations and opinions, the reader will be aware that their tone is at least as critical in many cases as we have done in Hungary. The reason for this is clear and perhaps trivial: the 2008 economic crisis. Since then, the causes of this have been investigated in many ways, and it turns out that the omens before the crisis started should have warned the control authorities about the dangers. [[10.40]] Although the US State Deposit Guarantee Fund had previously warned against these products, the US central banking system did not take any precautions between 2002 and 2006. The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Bank could have been avoided if the audits had detected the institution's serious liquidity problems in good time. The risk posed by a mortgage loan of up to 100 per cent of the value of the collateral, which was revalued in packages by financial intermediaries, has been overlooked by the control authorities. Therefore, in order to avoid further crises, measures were needed to provide for personal responsibility for the managers of financial institutions operating without proper supervision. Dear House, Banks in Europe are currently faced with sudden changes in the regulatory environment and economic activity, which raise fears about whether they will be able to continue to play their desired role in financing the economy. This is a particularly important issue not only for the euro area, but also for our country. The first measures of a financial and monetary nature were taken as a result of the urgent need for action. Longer-term measures were designed to strengthen the structure of markets and avoid future systemic crises, resulting in their regulatory, prudential and fiscal nature. Since the 2008 crisis, the European Union has taken a number of legislative measures, with 99 percent of these reforms being implemented at the end of 2011. In early 2013, the so-called Tier 1 came into force for 60 banks considered to be system-makers as early as 30 June 2012. It is due for the other institutions to enter into force between 2015 and 2018. During the negotiations of the current and previous legislative proposals for harmonisation on similar matters, there have been frequent instances of Article III. Basel Convention, which was published in November 2010 and which requires banks to have more high-quality equity capital for their resilience to future crises. The European Commission presented Basel III in June 2011. its proposals for the transposition of the Agreement into the Capital Requirements Directive 4 in order to strengthen the European banking sector. In this way, banks were encouraged to continue to finance growth in the economy. The aim is to make banks more resilient to crises and to provide supervisory authorities with new tools to intervene in the framework of banking supervision. We can agree with the conclusion that the banking sector, representing an average of 5 per cent of EU GDP, should be the primary task of financing the real economy, with particular emphasis on innovative businesses, the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises that are the engines of the European economy, and the security of bank depositors' savings. The Union supports Member States' efforts to strengthen the banking sector and to prevent new financial crises by reducing risks and mitigating their impact. Lessons should be drawn from recent economic and financial crises and a new concept of supervisory activity and greater responsibility for financial institutions should be developed. The responsibility of bank managers and control bodies must be clearly and more clearly defined so far, so that transparency and ethical behaviour are not exceptions but natural practices. The 8,000 European banks have a number of challenges to address in order to finance the economy in a debt crisis whose depth and consequences we cannot yet assess. European banks must withstand increased competition from banks in third countries, which are not subject to legislative and regulatory conditions similar to those of Europe in their own countries. This is covered by the conditions imposed on third countries. Do many people think so? And with that, I think we can agree completely? that banks must return to their original activities, to the reception of customers' deposits, to the protection of depositors and to the financing of the real economy. The current global crisis demonstrates that a globalised financial system based on unlimited liberalism carries the risk of serious swings, and this is linked to the fact that markets are not making good use of their freedom. The too large size of multinational financial groups has made it so difficult to manage and supervise these groups, which has also hit the credibility of credit rating agencies. The credit market varies from Member State to Member State in Europe. In countries such as our country, where lending is not sufficiently developed, the too rapid correction of the level of indebtedness can lead to a special bubble. Dear House, It should be taken into account that, of course, the new rules cannot fully guarantee the avoidance of new crises if the control authorities do not have the appropriate means to carry out their duties or if internal controls remain less effective and remain so. We need to see that, at global level, European banks can lose their competitiveness in the fight with their competitors. Banks preparing to attract additional capital can obtain capital from public capital reserves and from Asian and Middle East banks in the first place. There is a real risk that control of the European Union's banking system will be out of the hands of EU Member States. Therefore, prudential requirements should be envisaged in all Member States, with a view to the objectives of genuine global regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope, even without the need for completeness, that we have been able to shed some light on the broader aspects behind the legislative proposal for harmonisation before us. If you agree with what has been said, please support the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Petneházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think, in addition to the fact that much has been said about why this proposal should be considered positively, we can note that, in addition to talking about consumers on many occasions and about creditors, there are people behind the consumer, and let me take this on board from the point of view of how the simplification of the relationship between consumers and creditors is achieved in this draft law. Forgive me if I'm going to repeat things I've said many times before, but I think the basic situations that have led to this difficult, difficult situation shouldn't hurt to recapture. We know that according to the data of the Hungarian National Bank, on June 30, 2014, the volume of consumer loans exceeded HUF 6802 billion, of which almost HUF 3663 billion was the mass of foreign exchange-based loans. This figure, which can also be called a shocker, proves that families and domestic households are faced with huge debt difficulties. Now the Government of Hungary has tabled a legislative amendment before you, honourable House, honourable Members and gentlemen, which, in addition to reducing the burden, reduces the possibility of concluding contracts that are not beneficial to consumers, thereby reducing the potential for future debt to society. After all, I can tell you that as the number one constituencies of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, I have met with this in many cases, and there are huge masses affected by this loan repayment in the east as well. Perhaps there are few topics that more people would have approached me with. Really? Don't you think you're wasting your time? without the need for completeness, let us look at how this bill helps to ensure a more orderly relationship between a creditor and a credit intermediary and a consumer. [[10.50]] Well, there is an obligation for the consumer to provide information in the draft law that allows the consumer to assess whether the credit to be taken up and its overall design meets his own needs and financial performance. Moreover, the exact model text of credit contracts should be provided by the creditor on his website to the interested consumer. In the case of the application for mortgage credit or financial leasing of immovable property, a complete and complete draft contract shall be made available to the consumer at least two weeks before the contract, whether or not the consumer has made a request for it. One of the main advantages of the draft for consumers is that it contains stricter rules in the event of unilateral contractual amendments by the financial institution than it has so far. The unilateral amendment is linked to a maturity under which different rules apply to loans with a maturity of less than or equal to three years. In the former case, only the level of the reference interest rate may be changed in the unilateral amendment of the contract. It also lays down limits in the interests of the consumer in the case of interest on late payments imposed by financial institutions. A creditor may calculate a default interest rate not exceeding twice the value of the transaction interest laid down in the contract and shall not exceed the maximum value of the APR laid down for credit contracts in the relevant part of the legislation. In the case of foreign currency credit, the creditor shall disclose to the consumer the risks to the consumer in connection with the contract transaction, the acknowledgement of which shall be supported by a declaration signed by the customer. Can't the bank incur a specific cost for the conversion of the foreign currency-registered instalment? I'm telling you, you can't hit him? the consumer, this is worth highlighting. Well, with only one or two examples taken, it may be possible to contribute to encouraging all Members of this House to decide that this bill, which I believe is in the interests of consumers and society, will be rewarded with a button. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-18-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2014-11-18-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I think it is necessary to clarify that the Hungarian financial sector is stable, strong, safe. This was important because in some comments there was doubt about it or some Members seemed to question it. Thank you to the speakers who reminded me of that? I didn't think it was necessary? How many defense lines have been built in lately? Thank you, Congressman Pigeon? to enhance the stability of the financial sector at EU level and at domestic level. Is it important to see that it is not only a deposit guarantee to protect clients in the financial sector, but also a combination of supervision, resolution and deposit-guarantees that make up the state-law control that makes these relatively risky plants? Like banks and associates? can be controlled. But there were cases like bad bank and asset manager. I am obliged to say that these are questions raised by such hair, because what the wrong bank or the asset manager is trying to react to is not a malfunction such as supervision, resolution and ultimately the deposit guarantee system is looking for answers. Speaking of a bad bank, let me tell you this: it is indeed a problem with determining the value, which is the problem with those bad loans for the banking system as well. It's easy to get rid of them. Yes, this process must be accelerated, which is why there are many countries, whether in the European Union or in the United States, which collects bad loans. It is about who is able to get rid of these bad loans faster, collect them faster, better bear the burden of investing in capital, securing liquidity. He's tied up human resources, people's hours of work go by instead of trusting them to mess with bad loans. In Hungary, a significant proportion of the bank's loan portfolios are still like this, so it is right that this process should be encouraged by the government in order to allow the portfolio to be cleared more quickly. In Hungary, the National Bank has undertaken this task. As far as the National Asset Manager is concerned, this has a completely different function: basically, it's about keeping homes, providing housing, not some kind of financial hocus pocus. In addition to the question of increasing the burden here, not only the Deposit Insurance Fund, but also the uploading of a resolution fund has also begun, and this means a new safety net in relation to operational disruptions, the introduction of resolution, the creation of a legal environment in Hungary will further reduce the chances of public spending and public money being used to remedy the malfunctions of financial institutions. In any case, public funds have not been burdened in this sense lately, as I said in the expoze, since the OBA.93 it has not been necessary for the Hungarian State to take out loans or to participate in the deposit guarantee in any way. Finally, I would like to respond to the government's haste. We're in no hurry. As has been said here several times in a pejorative sense that this is a salad law, there is indeed more legislation involved in the amendment package that we have proposed. These are closely related proposals, cannot be taken separately or negotiated separately; they are built on one another, reinforcing one another. For some of them, it is true that the deadline for July was set by the 28 Member States of the European Union, including Hungary. It may be said that Brussels set it for us, that we were really there when we agreed on the deadline for July. But the point is that this is a common directive, which Hungary takes over. The other part of the legislative amendments shall enter into force on 1 January. This part is good if you are here in front of this House and we are talking about it now, because this is how the sector gets a chance to prepare for the new regulation, so that it gets the six-month transitional period that it needs to be able to switch to the new deposit guarantee scheme. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-18-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment. a general debate on the draft law amending the law to authorise certain commercial structures and to enforce their sustainability aspects until closure. The submission was made in T/1995. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[11.00]] I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-18-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a short but more important bill before this House. In a few words, I would like to summarise the backgrounds of the bill and the essential elements of the bill tabled. As my fellow Members know, it is forbidden to build a mall in Hungary for three years from 1 January 2012. When the legislation on this matter was created by Parliament and the government, the aim was to improve our built environment, to put the Hungarian retail in a better position, so that all the burden that has been imposed on the cityscape, the built environment and the Hungarian-owned retail market since the regime changed should be reduced to some extent. According to our original vision, which is still in force, a commercial facility with a surface area of more than 300 sq m cannot be built, i.e. a new or existing commercial facility can not be expanded to more than 300 sq m. There is a possibility of a special procedure, based on the opinion of the Rural Development Minister's Committee, with regard to the requirements of sustainable trade, the Minister of National Economy may grant an exemption from the ban. A review of the current legislation would have been necessary even if the European Union had not dealt with this regulation, since, as I said, by the end of December 2014, this regulation, known as a malltop, was subject to revision due to a time limit. But, as is well known, the European Union has also dealt with regulation in the meantime. In 2012, the European Commission started to examine the legislation thus changed and, as a result of this investigation, launched infringement proceedings against Hungary on 16 April 2014. The government has, of course, examined the Commission's proposals and examined the Commission's objections and, in the framework of bilateral negotiations, assured the Commission that the existing legislation will be transformed, adapting it to the EU's expectations. Of course, the task was twofold, since the Hungarian government's aim is not to position large foreign-owned business premises, but rather to transform the commercial environment in which the needs of Hungarian consumers can otherwise be met, taking into account the aspects and interests of small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses, by building a viable country, serving the owners of smaller business premises and thus the retail sector. Therefore, taking into account this dual task, firstly, to remove Hungary from the infringement procedure and, secondly, taking into account the government's social policy objectives, i.e. to strengthen small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses, we created a draft legislation before my fellow Members. Let us be very brief, ladies and gentlemen, what these four paragraphs contain. Firstly, in the draft, my fellow Members will see that in the future, authorisation will be transferred to the competence of the building authority, which will have to obtain the position of the administrative authority of the Government of Hajdú-Bihar County with national authority, his head of the government office, the head of the government office. The Government Office shall examine only the environmental, transport and urban planning effects of the construction on the settlement and the catchment area of the establishment, taking into account the specific environmental, transport and urban development requirements set out in the separate Government Decree. So here we have taken clear steps in line with the expectations of the European Union and the European Commission. In the event of the adoption of the current draft legislation, the Government Office may, in the future, request the relevant preliminary professional contribution in the course of the administrative procedure, and this preliminary professional contribution may be used for one year. However, during this procedure, the Government Office shall obtain the opinion of the Committee of the Ministers concerned. It is therefore very important that this is an opinion that you need to obtain, not by the competent ministers or by a committee of ministers, but by the government office during the administrative procedure. On the basis of the Government Decree cited, the Committee of Ministers shall examine the environmental, transport and urban development effects of the planned structures on the settlement and catchment area of the establishment and the feasibility of the measures envisaged by the applicant in order to eliminate, avoid and reduce any adverse effects that may be expected. The fact that we want to increase 300 square meters to 400 square meters is a significant difference from the current legislation. This means, therefore, that this procedure must be carried out in the establishment of new business premises above 400 square metres or in the expansion of existing business premises to more than 400 square metres. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, what I have said to my fellow Members must therefore be seen is that Brussels has examined this matter through infringement procedures and, while complying with the proposal, while meeting the expectations expressed in the objections, it will continue to apply in the future, i.e. after 1 January 2015, the limit for the protection of small businesses will remain at 400 sq m instead of 300 sq m, and we must say that the government is clearly committed in the future to ensuring that no more hypermarkets, malls, and that the negative consequences of all of this continue to affect Hungarian society. When the legislation was drafted, of course, it was also a matter of reducing car traffic at downtown shops. We are already talking about large malls in downtown, because in Hungary our built environment has been greatly damaged by the fact that malls have been built in the downtown part of our cities, in the city centre, while in major cities in Western Europe such as ours, either in the capitals or in settlements like our rural cities, they have all been built on parts outside the suburbs or the inhabited area of the city. If we have suffered here as a result of the poor urban policy of the last decades that small shops in downtown have been forced to close down because of the expansion of malls, then at least in the future we should strive to attract as little car traffic as possible and not to build new large malls or large buildings that cause new traffic chaos and environmental pressures. So we do not want new greenfield investments to lead to a negative development of cityscapes in the years ahead, decades. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the rules in force, the malltop would expire by the end of this year, but the amendment ensures that after 1 January a shopping mall can not be built without a special permit if the 400 sq m business space to be built exceeds the 400 sq m. As a summary, as of 1 January, a professional resolution is therefore necessary for the construction of a business or shopping mall above 400 sq m gross floor space or for expansion beyond that size. All of this shows, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian Government is committed to the protection of Hungarian businesses, Hungarian retailers, and by such means also seeks to support and enforce their interests. We will do everything in our power to improve their market environment, and by the way, they will be able to serve the interests of Hungarian taxpayers in such a way that they will also increase tax revenues thanks to their profits. [[11.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, This short but also important bill for social policy and economic policy, please support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first among which will be held by the speaker in a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The bill before us can in essence be interpreted as a continuation of the bill submitted by the LMP in 2011 and as the survival of the three-year moratorium introduced at that time. I wanted to say this here at the beginning of my speech because, in addition to the fact that, of course, the Fidesz fraction clearly supports the proposal submitted, I wanted to point out that it is a very important piece of legislation for the Hungarian economy and, in particular, for Hungarian trade that is within the framework of the Union? although basically on grounds of environmental protection and territorial development? has a positive impact on the development of Hungarian trade, including the Hungarian retail trade. Maybe it could be analyzed for a long time? But I won't do it, even though this area is close to my heart? the development of the Hungarian retail trade over the past 25 years. Anyone who knows it knows that the roots of this sector were once rooted in the last years of socialism, as one of the opportunities for Hungarian citizens to open small shops in the early '70s and early '80s was once one of the opportunities for economic reforms. A very, very large number of Hungarians took advantage of this opportunity, and unlike many former socialist countries, where this option was not available, this resulted in a large part of the Hungarian retail trade for the change of regime being essentially a privatized, strong entrepreneurial layer, one of the strongest and most vulnerable in the period after the change of regime. And this has been used, because during this period, the large international chains that have pushed them back into line since the 2000s have not yet appeared in Hungary and brought a completely new consumption structure to Hungary. Here, for all our advantages, we wasted quite a lot of it in the '90s and early 2000s, because we couldn't confirm, we couldn't or couldn't partially know? That's exactly how you put it? the Hungarian-owned retail trade is so strengthened that after our entry into the European Union they will fully take on the gloves and compete against the stronger competition coming from the West, in strength, in technology and in efficiency in many cases. Was this the result of the regrettably domestic trade by 2010? which, I tell you, has been largely in Hungarian hands since the time of the regime change, mainly small shops, some business property, income from tens of thousands of Hungarian families and hundreds of thousands of people's participation in the sector? has been significantly reduced. After 2004, the large international chains, which, once again, through Western experience and sales techniques, were rapidly repressing Hungarian-owned companies in the domestic retail market. This was not the only consequence of this in itself, but the emergence of international chains also transformed consumer goods, and from that time onwards, the proportion of Hungarian food on the Hungarian market also decreased, falling from the previous 90 percent to 60-70 percent. This negative process was not only felt on the government side, not only in the various professional organisations and businesses, but also in a general social recognition. Is that what it is, by the way? To go back to the basic motif of the story? , that in 2011, the LMP fraction submitted a proposal which was supported by the government, supported by the Fidesz fraction, entered into a series of subjects, although partly transformed, and a decision was taken to impose a rather serious ban on the construction of commercial facilities or a rather serious restructuring. Why was that necessary? In addition to what I mentioned, two more reasons can be read from the debate at that time. One was that, in addition to the negative processes that I mentioned, in addition to the decline in domestic-owned trade and domestic food, the negative impact of the processes was that Hungary has a significantly higher number of commercial square meters per capita due to previous unregulatedness than in the countries west of us. In addition, since there were no restrictions on sustainability and urban development in the past, I can also say as Budapest that partly the empty business premises in downtown, the empty traffic in the downtown, are due to the creation of tens of thousands of square meters of commercial facilities, for example, around the agglomeration in Budapest or M0, and while people used the traditional spaces in Budapest to buy in part or in whole, these parts of the city have lost their attractiveness and traffic has been removed from the city, which has also caused problems that are not detailed? problems of urban, touristic or quality of life? In the city. And what was the reason? The main reason was that, by the way, to the west of us, where this similar problem was detected decades earlier, in most countries, the implementation of these commercial facilities is otherwise regulated in some way; see, for example, Belgium, which was the basis for previous provisions. In Belgium, in addition to the construction permit, all commercial establishments need to obtain additional permits above 400 square metres. But from Italy, many other European countries also know different levels of regulation for commercial facilities, partly for environmental reasons, partly for supply reasons, and partly because in a jointly populated urban environment, it does not matter where consumption is focused, and under what circumstances, how much it can be achieved by public transport, just by car. The ecological footprint of an M0 shopping centre is also quite different, which can only be approached by car, such as a small shop in downtown, which can be reached by public transport or even by foot. [[11.20]] So this regulation started in 2011, and I can say that although? Again? the main reasons for the regulation are essentially environmental protection and construction regulations, and it has had a positive impact on trade, because, according to the latest surveys, the continuous shift between domestic and foreign-owned commercial units, which was felt since 2004 by the fact that this already overburdened customer square metre was not able to grow. Obviously, as this was a violation of business interests, there were all kinds of reactions in the country and abroad. By the way, the moratorium expires at the end of this year, which is why it was necessary to submit this new proposal, which is basically, already adapted to the previous moratorium, transferring the granting of licences above 400 sq m to a normal administrative procedure compared to that. So we are moving closer from the previous proposal, which seems to be temporary firefighting, to better established practice in the European Union as well. By the way, I am confident that we will be able to accept this proposal with some kind of consensus or some kind of consensus, because? Again? the previous proposal introduced in a very difficult field, which is, by the way, the most liberal market in the European Union, has managed to take a measure in the retail sector that has brought a positive development for domestic-owned trade, albeit albeit in a more positive way, and has given us the hope to try to build a more positive future retail trade in urban and environmental terms. On the basis of these considerations, the Fidesz fraction naturally supports the proposal submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Tukacs. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At a time when you, say, visit a small town in our country and see that there are bright small shops in downtown; that the local community believes that it can regulate life, it is likely that it is exemplary. Recently, my family and I were in a small town like this, and we admired the foresight, the planned urban development that we saw there. [[L. Simon László: He must have been a fidesz mayor.]] It's about Gyula, by the way. The reason I wouldn't want to make this a secret is because the head architect of this town has very prestigious awards. I say this because I think that all kinds of regulations are a matter for the local community, that they should be given the opportunity to shape their own lives, how they try to build their own city, how they regulate co-existence there, trade, transport and anything else. The reason I would be very fond of this local decision is because it seems to have good examples, and I'm not a fan of central intervention because it's not differential. I understand this proposal, which lies before us, because it wants to regulate something. My fellow Member has just tried relatively long to demonstrate what the proposal is intended to regulate, as well as specific examples. Now, after a Hungarian example, let me refer to what you wanted to refer to, namely in Italy, there are such regulatory options. Only? I wish you would argue with me, my fellow Member. It's also regulated by the local community. So neither the province or government decides how to install trade, how to open shops, or how not to open shops, but the local community decides how to decorate its own city and how to regulate what commercial facilities to open or not to open. The reason why I wanted to set two types of examples, a home and a foreigner, is because this underlines the very important circumstance that I would like to point out that the local community is able to deal with its own environment by making rules, so it is unnecessary to make central rules in this regard. Once. Second of all. I live with suspicion, my fellow Members, how does it happen? In quotes? personalised legislation. So when the Secretary of State has also argued for the advertising tax, it is clear that it is a regulation tailored to a company. And it wouldn't be good if this was about lawmaking tailored to a company, a group of companies and others in the case of a mallstop, because I really respect the idea of the Christian Democratic People's Party saying that the family should be together on Sunday, but I am very much debating the solution that some stores should be closed, not others. Why? So, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal before us, my second problem is whether there is no personalised legislation again, so whether there is some underlying intention behind the proposal before us. The third such idea that I would like to share with you is that the equipment and life of a settlement can, of course, be surrounded by rules, because it is necessary to respect the people who live there, to make their lives easier, to allow good transport, to create accessible services, and so on. However, the only way to do so is not necessarily and only to bring about a trade-related law, i.e. the law on sales. I think that the legislation relating to the lives of settlements is much more specific about what needs to be applied and is much better suited to creating all the conditions that my fellow Member Szatmary referred to, so that the centre does not plug in, that it is possible to travel normally, to live, to go to school, to work, and so on. Is that why I think that if the intention is serious? And I don't think I have to doubt that? , there should be other legislation or other legislation to do so. As a last thought, I would like to point out that both Mr Secretary and my fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, as I recall, was referring to the fact that the bill was tabled by a parliamentary party, which thought that it could be argued and that it must be supported by whether multinational chains have a place in a city. Being a globalization critic is a good thing, and I do not dispute that, but finding the means of this criticism is another thing. I believe that the reference to the fact that this was submitted by another party and not a ruling party may be good, but I do think that this law is not suitable for globalisation criticism, so that is not what our world is about. Our world is about letting communities decide how they want to live there; regulating centrally only what they need to do; and, thirdly, drawing ideological models on a local community is not necessarily worthy, not even in the spirit of globalisation criticism. That is all I wanted to say, and I think that we will not support this motion, we will not support it on the basis of the arguments put forward. [[L. Simon László: We would have been surprised.]] And we're not going to support it because we're living with the suspicion lawsuit that we're once again dealing with some sort of personalized legislation. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2014-11-18-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, notary. [[11.30]]
u2014-11-18-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, If you have started with the historical history of the previous speakers here, then allow me, Mr Secretary of State and the House, to begin in this way, and to sum up, on our own terms, the last 25 years, by the end of which I feel that we have not yet understood. Because this bill before us, I think, does not really solve the problem caused by the construction of malls and their proliferation in Hungary, Budapest, in the agglomeration. Indeed, it would appear that the Law 97 or the regulations before it could not give or give a sufficient framework or were not strict enough in this respect. It may seem that way, I say again, because we see that these large box buildings have developed in our environment completely unreasonable and, indeed, not taking into account any aspects of environmental awareness. We know that the life expectancy of these types of buildings is very small, their integration into the environment is questionable, and they do do more damage than any benefit. But why did this happen? Why was the annual LXXVIII not enough for this. Law? Well, I think that it would have been enough in many respects, and I will also say so, and if we had taken into consideration the contents of it in substance to this day, perhaps it would have been enough. Unfortunately, the municipalities, which could have decided in this regard, we know that in the last 25 years, they have been very poor financially. And, yes, unfortunately, in the past period there has been a mass sport, so we can say, in the municipalities, that some settlements have tried to make a living by taking, say, agricultural land in the area, transferring and selling, so that there, later on, a commercial establishment can be built. In this way, yes, we can say that unfortunately they sold their future, they lived up to their future. But once again, their financial vulnerability has created this compulsive situation. At the same time, it should be added that, unfortunately, certain extremely irresponsible city leaders and corruption in the Hungarian municipal system are the other ones, which were the hotbeds of this harmful process. Because, yes, as long as the protection contribution is artificially kept at a low level in Hungary, and as long as it is so easy to influence the decision of some local leaders, it is easy to build, where appropriate, to carry out a larger commercial facility as a greenfield investment. We, representatives of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, proposed to avoid such and similar problems in the previous term. Because it is not just commercial facilities, but, for example, some foreign investors, in order to circumvent the land law in force at the time, took huge land for various conversions into inland areas, and because the land protection contribution is extremely low, it has not caused them any significant financial burden and could obtain these land inexpensively, otherwise agricultural land. So that's what we think most of all about the problem. What was the malltop law, I'm sorry, the III/A. The Etv. chapter was a chapter of the Etv., and it has actually dealt with this problem at some level for a period of time, although I would add that mall building has not yet stopped in Hungary. Unfortunately, if not at such a pace, these commercial facilities continued to multiply. Turning to the bill before us, the author thinks that this problem should be dealt with by a new IV/A. Chapter 1 is inserted by the annual LXXVIII. Law. But we are convinced that this draft law before us does not really solve the problem; in many respects it complicates it more, since it will raise a number of further questions, which makes us think that situations can develop in some sense unmanageable. What am I talking about? So when a body of representatives creates a local construction code and a regulatory plan, some sort of settlement planning tool, or prior to that, accepts the concept of urban development, its integrated urban development strategy, the professional opinion of the chief architect must be behind these works and behind the decision of the body of representatives. In addition to the professional opinion of the municipal chief architect and the adoption of these settlement planning instruments, there is the state head architect. You can't accept any settlement arrangement without his or her opinion or in the absence of it. The state chief architect is connected to the ministries through government offices. Therefore, where appropriate, their professional management shall be exercised by the Minister responsible for professional policy. We would have the professional control of the government within the main architecture network, which could prevent certain settlements from making decisions in a way that is otherwise harmful to nature, just as you describe here, which is why you have now put this bill before us, to apply those criteria. To this, I say again, there are established procedures in Hungary, and there are professionals who should be able to control this. It's just that, you know, the settlements should take these opinions into account. Perhaps this is the direction in which the bill should go, perhaps the chief architect of the settlement, the chief architect of the state, to give a veto right which you have been keenly fond of using in the legislative process, so that if some settlement tool violates the criteria that you have listed, it cannot be created or created in such a way. The opinion of a state chief architect must be taken into account in this sense. But you're not doing that, you're installing it at a county government office, which, by the way, provides the second degree in building efficiency. Is it a good thing that this is specifically regulated so that when it comes to acting as a second-degree authority, at least an administrative exclusion should be requested in these cases, because it would be rather odd when the head of the government office, if any, will have to take a second-degree building decision against his own previously issued position by the administrative authority? At least that's what's in it. However, I would like to ask you with deep respect, in particular, Mr Secretary of State, explain to me how this is done. He says it's 57/C. (paragraph 1) and (paragraph 2) read the following. In paragraph 1 the resolution of the administrative authority shall be requested by means of an administrative procedure. By the way, it is strange for you to write this down specifically, that you must obtain a resolution by submitting a request for a building permit and its annexes. Because I respectfully report to the Secretary of State that this is precisely described in the Act on the General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service in Ket., Hungarian. So, in another law, this is clearly written down. I would add that there is another government decree that you do not mention here in the bill, which is 312/2012. It's a government decree, which is the Etv. The government, in which it is also described, for example, who the administrative authorities are. [[11.40]] So the entire draft law should not have been put before us, Mr. Secretary of State, I report that only one government decree should have extended the scope of the administrative authorities in this sense. Then perhaps you could have saved this debate here in Parliament. Returning to my basic question once again: while at 57/C. Paragraph 1 of the Act requires a document of richness to be submitted to the Government Office, until then in paragraph 2 only a visual design, main data, planned dimensions, expected traffic, and the rest, and the rest, must be submitted to a preliminary professional resolution which may otherwise be adopted in the course of a construction authorization as an existing and still valid professional resolution. [[L. Simon László: That's not true!]] In paragraph 2 of this Article, the request for a building permit shall be accompanied by a document of richness, in which case only a visual design, main data, planned dimensions, expected traffic, and the rest, and the rest, shall be submitted to a preliminary professional resolution which may subsequently be adopted in the course of a construction authorization as an existing and still valid professional resolution. (L. Simon László: This is not so!) But that's true, Mr. Secretary, please read and interpret the bill you have tabled. This is a serious contradiction, I ask you respectfully, that must be eliminated, because otherwise this legislative passage will be completely incomprehensible and unenforceable. But I'll keep going. My further question is that, and this is obviously a typo, or at least I hope it's a typo, which is 57/D. Paragraph 4 of the Act, namely, that the committee may seek out the government office, as to what else it needs to obtain. I read:, from the applicant more than necessary, and the rest, and the rest. I assume that you would have wanted to write a "needed" here, because this would sound rather strange in other ways, but I will read the entire sentence section:, the applicant should provide additional information and information to the government office as required. Now, tell me, is there any information you need to make a decision and any information you don't need to make a decision? Shouldn't it have been formulated in such a way as to request all necessary information and data from the applicant? I think that in this case this is quite difficult to interpret, even grammatically, in spelling, but also in other ways. Furthermore, as regards point (b), it is expressed as an opportunity for the local authorities concerned to have an opinion on the committee's decision. I think, given that, in principle, the law itself installs to the local authorities what, where, in the case of their own administrative area, they want to be built, so the formation of their own local construction regulations is the responsibility and opportunity of the municipal authorities, and this should not at least be attached here as an opportunity, but as an opinion that should be asked in any event, in my understanding. To sum up, because my time is running out: we therefore find the proposal extremely strange. There are a number of contradictions that do not comply with other relevant laws and government regulations, which are not synchronized and cannot be interpreted by them. That's one of the problems. And the other is that we would like to deny the way in which you put certain specific procedures in place for the committee set out in this draft, rather than allowing the municipalities to make a meaningful and responsible decision, let us say, when setting up commercial buildings. The strangest thing is that the same Ministry wishes to amend Étv. at one time, but in two different laws, since it was recently published, on behalf of your ministry, the 2078 bill, which also amends Étv. I think that the government's legislative work should be a little more coordinated and more qualitative submissions put on the table. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-18-48	Thank you very much, notary. The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, This debate is very interesting, especially since it is a draft legislation whose basic ideology, its core values, are difficult to disagree with, and as they say here, there is nothing wrong with it, but its throat is bloody. I would like to begin with the comments of Mr Szatmáry, if the congressman would allow me. I want to start with that because there wasn't much in his comments that couldn't be agreed with. The whole ideology, the whole background you have said about small and medium-sized enterprises and small businesses, can be fully agreed with. And it is possible to fully agree with the objective of what the LMP said in 2011 and what we said then, which is clearly serving sustainability, not only from an environmental point of view, but also from an economic and social point of view, namely that small and medium-sized enterprises belonging to Hungarian people, helping Hungarian commercial activities, should be placed in a position that can keep goods in place through the principles of self-employment and local employment. So, on the whole, Mr Szatmáry has very, very nicely summarized the ideological aspects that make it necessary to regulate this issue. Our problem is neither that nor the reason why they want to do this, so it is not the purpose, but the instrument that is formulated in this draft legislation. Unfortunately, on the basis of our first position, this is not appropriate to regulate this. From past experience, I'm not gonna get away with it, and I'm gonna have Secretary L. Simon pick on me, too. [[Defiance.]] So I'm gonna start right off with this so I don't regret not doing this. The Secretary of State is constantly talking about EU obligations in this reference. It is very, very difficult for me to imagine that the EU would have proposed these legislative conditions. [[L. Simon László: I didn't say that!]] Therefore, it is not an EU obligation, but an expiry date for previous legislation. Because the regulation that the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office should always be the authority at first instance, and if he is the administrative authority, then Heves County is very, very difficult to imagine that they are connected here. [[L. Simon László: Why don't you listen more?]] At the same time, Mr Secretary of State, after being an influential politician, he said his thoughts about how important it is in the legislation not to reduce urban green spaces, and the government stands up to protect them, so I am confident that this opinion will also be expressed in the City Park's transformation, so that the green area will not be reduced in any way. And he also said, Mr Secretary, that these were the result of faulty decisions. But what I'm really saying to Mr. Secretary of State is that he just celebrated his 15-year-old birthday at the WestEnd Center, which is not far from here. The authorisation procedure was started in 1998 and was fully handed over in 2000, so this investment took place during the first Orbán Cabinet. How good it would have been to stop them from spreading back then! Finally, it is also just a principle in this regard: the principles that Congressman Szatmáry has set out for the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises should not only apply to future commercial facilities, which will be set up later, exceeding 400 sq m, but it would also be very, very good for the government to address what is going on with those already operating. Over the past few weeks, we have heard a lot about fair banks, how it would be nice to hear about fair malls, because in many cases small and medium-sized enterprises own the retail units that appear there, in this case the owners of large companies take away the rents and the profits that could be recovered. At the same time, we can still talk about an ideological background, as in the case of these malls, we have seen everywhere in the country how the number of cultural opportunities in small settlements and rural areas has collapsed, and we are slowly realizing that in a large part of the rural counties, the only cinema in the county is in a mall of some kind, and it is possible to enter. For this reason, and because of the cultural change related to consumption and shopping, it should be noted that although our party ideology is far from compatible, unfortunately there is a social need for these presences. At the same time, we must now debate on the draft legislation on how they should continue and how they should appear. [[11.50]] As I said, we agree with the aims of the legislation, but we cannot agree with its instruments to a large extent. For I would like to ask the Secretary of State what professional reason it is that the head of the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County should obtain a position of authority. Why did it become this government office? The other thing that clearly arises and seems very, very concerned politically is that the determining authority must obtain the opinion of only the body referred to in the later part of this legislation as a committee. He said that the Minister would obtain the opinion of the committee of representatives of ministers responsible for trade, urban development, spatial planning, environmental protection and transport. So these are the bodies that appear. At the same time, this body shall examine the environmental, transport and urban development impact on the municipality and the catchment area of the planned commercial structures and the presence of a uniform adverse effect. This seems to be a concern because practically five ministries give a five-member body, which is the committee, if I understand it correctly, and this one body must have such an incredible degree of competence that it needs to understand practically social policy, social policy, economic policy, environmental policy and everything else in order to form a position. I don't know where the responsible minister will get people with such superman skills to put together such a committee; it's okay that János Lázár has such a specialist, but the other ministers will be able to provide it. So this is not an easy task. At the same time, I am terribly concerned about the fact that the legislation does not state how this committee's opinion should be taken into account in practice by the determining agency. The committee shall give its opinion, after the Commission has issued its opinion, the determining authority, the government office, shall consider the opinion obtained from the committee in the course of issuing the administrative resolution. What does that mean, he's weighing it down? [[L. Simon László: I want you to consider it!]] That you can accept it, you can't accept it? Can you say to the committee of government leaders that you actually said something stupid right now? So are we gonna have this discretion, or is this just a piece of legislation? I am equally concerned that the committee may contact the Government Office to obtain additional information from the applicant in accordance with the section that was previously contested by the Member, by setting a reasonable deadline; therefore, what is not necessary may be obtained. For example, you can still get the views of the local authorities concerned, consumers, environmental interests and other civil society organisations. I would very much like to know what these other civil society organisations are, and this, you can find what it means, in how many cases it is planned to be implemented. Because that doesn't mean anything to anyone. It does not constitute an obligation for the determining authority to whom it should contact, does not constitute an obligation to include, nor even an obligation to take into account, the aspects of its professional judgement, because it is not known who will assess it. On this basis, the committee, if requested, may consider it, is here, too, in addition to being able to contact it, and then the administration may consider the opinion. So a regulation that doesn't contain any specifics, but at the same time gives a very high decision-making competence to just a government agency, which is the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County, is just a body that doesn't stand a chance of a number of disciplines appearing. [[L. Simon Laszlo sneezes.]] Cheers. [[L. Simon László: Thank you.]] As I have said, we can fully agree with the objectives of the legislation, but this draft legislation is not suitable for its implementation. [[L. Simon László: We ask the opposition for better!]] Yes, we will make amendments in response to the request, which we may be able to support if it is adopted. However, until these amendments make it clear what kind of measures the government intends to take and how, this draft legislation will not be a solution. I would like to mention one more important thing, which belongs to the Prime Minister's Office, which is the question of the use of structural funds in Hungary. It is important to see that many of these development activities have used EU budgetary resources in the last EU budget cycle. Therefore, it would be very good to see in legislation that no public money and tender money will strengthen these possibilities, even if the committee could consider and the administration could take the opinion of the committee into account. On the basis of all these considerations, we say that regulation is obviously justified, not by these instruments. In order to maintain my position that I disagree, I did not fully agree with Mr Tukacs either. We do not need central regulation, he said, but we have seen that there are very serious risks. While there are positive examples, this does not mean that the lack of central regulation will certainly provide positive examples. So that there is some kind of government intention to push the commercial systems in Hungary in some economic development direction, that would not be a disadvantage. His comments on globalisation criticism are also something that I find difficult to accept, as globalisation criticism here means nothing more than protecting the interests of Hungarian entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. To sum up, I can say that our party can agree with the objectives of the draft legislation, that it sees the regulation as completely immature, that it is not fit to define real conditions. However, it is clear that the government's efforts to create more and more dependence and to strengthen government competences as much as possible are not necessarily desirable, since they would be reassuring if the committee had to take account of it at various stages of the legislation, such as the local civil society organisations concerned, and the committee could therefore really consider it with a broader view, and this would have to be taken into account by the administrative authority. Let me tell you more, after the title of this chapter, the implementation of sustainability criteria for certain commercial structures, the fact that Hungary has a body, a body led by the Speaker of Parliament, is the National Sustainable Development Council. There are players in the economic sector, civil society organisations and government actors. How good it would be for such a body, which can judge such a question, a horizontal aspect, to be more interdisciplinary, to receive that competence rather than to receive all such opportunities and rights by some government members. We will submit the amendments and hope that the government will consider our opinion. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-18-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am asking my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[L. Simon on László's signal:]] Yes, please, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-18-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Interesting points have been raised by my fellow Members in the debate, which I thank you very much for. Congressman Tukacs typically, as in every other debate where I represent the government, tells his/herself, goes out and doesn't want to hear the government's position. He believes that he shared what he wanted with us, and then, what kind of counter-argument we have about this, how we think about it, do we use Parliament at all to conduct meaningful debates, to polemize with each other, as this genre shows, he no longer cares. He's not here, all we see is TOP 2/3, someone in STOP 2/3 made TOP 2/3, and there's no one behind him. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Not a single person is sitting in the left-wing faction. As you can see, fellow Members, this is how serious they take this issue. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] Which, by the way, is? Has this also become clear from the comments of my fellow opposition Members? It intends to address a particularly serious and wide-ranging problem, both from an economic policy point of view and from a social policy point of view. I am only saying this because, in addition to all of this, Mr Tukacs's speech is not only a betrayal or self-discovery, but we must say that it was completely shameful. Our fellow Member said that we should keep all kinds of regulations in the local community, that the local community should decide what to build, what not to build, and that we should not say anything about it. In fact, you should have said that we would like to see many more large malls in this country. 'Cause that's what Congressman Toukacs was really talking about, and he just wrapped his statements in a set of sentences that had no message but to let the locals decide their own business. In the last 20 years, we have seen the result of this in cities run by socialists and free democrats, honourable Members. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: He speaks the truth!]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you are trying to confront the current government with West End, which was built between 1999 and 2002, that it was as if the capital was controlled by Gábor Demszky, a free Democrat. [[12.00]] It is as if at that time we were not the majority in the leadership of this city, our wonderful capital; as if these decisions were not made by us and not by our predecessors, but by the socialists and the free democrats, my honourable fellow Member. Isn't it a coincidence that Congressman Tukacs will tell you his ambiguous sentences, and then he'll slip things away? He's coming out of the room. This is outrageous! Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, that once again the Socialists and, in particular, Mr Tukacs, did not take a stand for Hungarian entrepreneurs, not for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, not for Hungarian shops and shop owners, but for large foreign-owned chains and their owners. On all other matters, would Congressman Tukacs be so acceptable? Let local authorities decide whether there will be a traffic lamp; whether to comply with the CEAS; whether to comply with the construction rules; whether to take into account the central rules on livestock farming or not. Let the locals decide if they want to run a slaughterhouse downtown, or not, and I can give you more examples. We heard a typical example of political demagogy today in the speech by Mr Tukacs, after which he left quietly, because he did not want to hear the views of his fellow Members or the government's response. I must strongly reject Mr Toukacs' claim that there is again some personalised legislation that is suspected, presumed, of being done here. What personalised legislation is going on, fellow Members? The government has a clear position: do not build new malls in Hungary, and if possible? because there is no other way to resolve this than to take into account the European Union's request? , we prevent this in such a way that, in an extremely clear, clean authorisation process, the competent authorities decide whether or not such a building can be built and determine in 400 square metres the size of the buildings for which it is possible to establish or rebuild new commercial facilities without a specific authorisation. In addition, Mr Tukacs has gone so far as to bring the issue of opening hours on Sunday, the KDNP proposal, into today's debate, claiming that with the issue of opening hours on Sunday, KDNP and, of course, the government too? Is that what you're suggesting? In fact, he wants to make personal legislation again, as he claims. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard the opposition's arguments and accusations about this in recent days and weeks. Let us make it clear that there are 537 thousand people working in trade in Hungary at the moment, and trade accounts for 13 percent of GDP, the commercial sector is currently the largest VAT payer in Hungary. The companies he mentioned here, which are supposed to result in personalised legislation, i.e. the CBA, Coop and Real shops, i.e. the Hungarian networks, employ 77 thousand employees. Last year they had a total of 144.1 billion revenues, and the truth is that if the possible concept of opening hours on Sunday will be supported by the government and Parliament, then they too must close most of their units. Let's not pretend to favor them. The CBA, Coop, has a series of big businesses, which would be affected by the KDNP proposal, which will be discussed at some point in the House. It is not, therefore, that they are not covered by the bill and that legislation is tailor-made. In spite of this, a press release was issued today by the members of the aforementioned Hungarian networks, in which it is stated that they guarantee that despite the introduction of a possible Sunday closure and despite the adoption of the legislation we are discussing now, they will not dismiss a worker and that they support the government's ideas. Please, there is no personalised legislation in this House, but rather the opposite: personalised opposition communication. We would be able to name the interests for which the socialists and the Member of the Council of Tukacs have spoken here today in order to protect them, smearing the real situation. I do not want to waste any more words speaking to Mr Tukacs, but I would just like to say to this House that this transparent, clear communication strategy is, in fact, a burst balloon which, by the way, does not enjoy the support of the majority of Hungarian society at all. Thank you, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, for your speech. Apparently, the Jobbik are in favour of our intentions. Are we having some debate about interpretation and interpretation of the law here? I don't want to go into the details of this. May I ask the congresswoman, for example, about any language-righteous errors? I've been rereading the 57/D. § 4? where it is possible to improve the text stylistically, please submit an amendment. I do not feel any contradiction in the fact that Étv. is being amended by several laws. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not about a comprehensive amendment of the law; in this bill, we need to deal urgently with a specific problem, which I explained in my introduction, my author's expo. One of the reasons for this is that the regulation adopted at the initiative of the previous regulation, LMP, was in any event subject to review, since it was then decided for three years, until 31 December 2014, that it was not possible to build malls over 300 square meters, but only because of individual licences and because of the infringement procedure of the European Union. But speaking of which, I can recommend to my fellow Member Sallai that taking notes in Parliament is a useful genre. So it wouldn't hurt to... [[Sallai R. Benedict shows me a card.]] Very good, then I'll go further: accurate recording, literal writing [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's a very important thing for things. It's a very important thing to take advantage of. Homo faber: tool user person; pencil, paper and so on, and Homo sapiens is already thinking. It's worth going through the stages of evolution, and then we'll find out why it's good to write things down, what a secretary of state says in the expo, so that we can react to it, and not how he somehow misheard or misinterpreted things. You don't suppose, Your Honour, that I would have said that the EU infringement procedure requires the appointment of the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County as a determining authority? I didn't say anything stupid like that. I also made it clear in my expo which points affected the infringement procedure were the objections made by the Union. Of course, we are well aware of the political background of this, my honourable fellow Member, because the entire Commission's proceedings are apparently in the interest of companies located in foreign, mostly European corporate ownership. This is understandable in a political context, I think, but we cannot do it as a member of the European Union for whom it is important that we are members of the European Community to ignore an EU procedure. So this legislative proposal also responds, and this new procedure, which we intend to address, is this new procedure, with the fact that, by the way, the body of ministers is only making an opinion and not making decisions, managing and correcting them. Dear fellow Member, I didn't say anything about green surfaces. I didn't say they were green. I was talking about a cityscape, I was talking about a built environment, and I was talking about greenfield investment, but greenfield investment doesn't necessarily mean a greenfield; I guess I don't have to explain this concept to a member of a green party, you know that, so I don't want to go into this debate. I can say that I am only hoping that our LMP colleagues are committed to having as many museums and cultural facilities as possible in Hungary; we hope that we will not at least argue about this, since we already agree that no more malls will be built in Hungary. Didn't I just say that? I quote, Congressman, what did you put in my mouth? that these settlements were created as a result of faulty decisions. I didn't say that, dear congressman. Did I just say that faulty decisions led to the creation of malls and large shopping malls? not settlements. The settlements were created as a result of a special development: first we took over the Carpathian Basin, and then we went forward nicely, so God forbid I would have discussed the establishment of settlements here in Parliament. My fellow Member asks us why the government only cares about the future and why it does not deal with the existing malls. You may have missed it, because you weren't a representative in the previous term, but we introduced a special tax for large commercial establishments, so it's like we're dealing with the existing ones, and otherwise we've properly included them in the reasonable public burden. But you don't think the congressman should lock them up, do you? 'Cause let's just stick to the rule of law, so I'm gonna recommend it to the LMP guys. I have not yet seen that the LMP would want to break fundamental state standards, but that is why my fellow Member Sallai is already moving in this direction. [[12.10]] The next question the congressman asked us was what professional reason we chose the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County. I thought it would be my fellow Member, Sallai, who would welcome this, and he would finally say that we are not building a waterhead, we have appointed not the Metropolitan Government Office, but a country government office, a government office that is quite large enough, one of the largest counties in the country, is dealing with the official affairs of one of the country's largest cities, the second largest city in Hungary, where there is a lot of primary experience on which to build, and that my fellow Member will be the first to be proud of being rural and farming in Parliament and other public forums, and he will say that, well, once again, there is a nice step towards decentralisation, and that the government does not want to take everything into the capital, and that there is sufficient expertise, a proper legal background for this at the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office. As you have seen, in the case of a second-degree procedure, the draft legislation indicates the Heves County Government Office. I don't know why this is a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the government agencies had to be selected. We have decided that for the reasons just mentioned, the county of Hajdú-Bihar will be the right one. Commission opinion: I explained in the expozee, honourable Member, why there is an opinion and why it is not a decision. If the committee had taken a decision, there would be no need for the government's procedure, or if there was a decision at the committee, the committee of ministries, the infringement proceedings would be resumed against Hungary. I propose to my fellow Member that he be a little better around this problem. Incredible size? If I remember correctly, that's what the congressman wrote, was I taking notes? Is there competence in our ministry? I don't understand your question. It would be worth studying the administrative procedure and practice of the Member. I know very well that ministers and secretary-general are not all-knowing, but there is an apparatus behind them, many-many departments, many-many classes, many-many rapporteurs who, by the way, are in contact with other ministries, other departments, rural bodies, government agencies, defocused bodies and other authorities, and then prepare the materials for the ministers for a decision, and those ministers take the decision, and they have the political responsibility, and partly the legal responsibility for these decisions. On this basis, it could also be said on what basis ministers and the Prime Minister govern. On what basis do they make decisions on matters that do not have personal experience? I could give you many, many examples. The congressman has a routine movement in the stables, and he knows what it's like to milk an animal, probably all the employees of the Ministry of Agriculture don't have this primary experience, but he does have a relevant political, professional position on how to say how to support a milking plant, right? Thank you very much, Congressman, for giving me the truth, so you seem to be arguing with yourself again. I would like to ask you, Mr President, how the opinion of the committee should be taken into account, what we mean by considering it. Honourable Congressman, I need to reassure you, by considering it, we understand you're considering it. I think the Hungarian language is quite clear. I suggest that you study the meaning of the word in the Hungarian interpreter manual or in the seven-volume Hungarian interpreter dictionary. I do not understand why we have to polemise on this in Parliament, whether it can contact civil society organisations, and that you have a problem with that, that it will not be mandatory. We do not want it to be mandatory, honourable Member. I would like to warn you that there is a very big difference between commitment and opportunity. In that case, we wanted to create an opportunity. We wanted to give decision-makers the opportunity to ask them if they cannot decide on their own, if there are still open questions, if there are civil society organisations in the region that are active and have a valid opinion on this issue. But we didn't want to make it mandatory, because we didn't want to make the procedure even more complicated and slower. There will be a number of cases, if we look back at the fact that in the previous years, there have been 211 requests for relief from the restriction in these three years that we are talking about, so there has been a decision situation. Obviously, there will be such requests in the future, we wanted to create the opportunity to involve civilians, but we did not want to slow down the process, we did not want to make it mandatory, because there are cases where there is no need. Finally, the Member concluded his thoughts by hoping very much that no public money or tender money would strengthen the builders. Mr. Congressman, if there is a future commercial facility of 410 sq m, so it is 10 sq m above the 400 sq m planned limit, and the government office will grant us permission to do so either against the opinion of the committee or against the opinion of the committee, or against the opinion of civilians, or in the positive light of the opinion of civilians, then we do not want to discriminate against them, so we do not want another infringement proceeding against Hungary because of such an absurd idea? Let us not make a difference if we want to use EU or national funds to build a business of 399 square meters or 402 square meters. But let us not talk about business, to understand our thinking, honourable Member. If a person in Hungary builds a 500-square-metre factory hall, builds a 200-square-metre production unit or a 5 thousand-square-square-square-meter production unit, if he creates a job, in each case he is worthy of the government's attention and the support of the community. That is where we come from, honourable Member, and we do not want to discriminate against anyone in our support policy. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, aside from the absurd expression of the socialists, our fellow Members sitting in Parliament's horseshoes, including LMP and Jobbik, agree with the directions and intentions of the bill. We all think, with the exception of the socialists, that small and medium-sized Hungarian trade chains, small and medium-sized Hungarian entrepreneurs, retailers, Hungarian-owned businesses that give jobs to Hungarian citizens should be helped in this way. There's a debate in detail. To this end, we would like to ask our fellow Members to submit their amendments. Overall, I call on Parliament to finally support the bill before us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-18-52	Thank you very much for the important and valuable thoughts of the Secretary of State, and we will work on his Latin accent together. [[Defiance.]] Now we have the opportunity to submit the amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m., I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, will follow. The submission was made by T/1962. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Magyar Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to settle an issue in which, perhaps I have reason to believe, too intense a debate cannot be expected, given that this issue enjoys a general consensus among the Hungarian parliamentary parties and the government, as virtually all the political powers of the European Union support it. Is the bill aimed at the European Union and Georgia? Georgia, as we now officially call this country in Hungary? The Association Agreement between the Parties signed on 27 June of this year is ratified, i.e. announced in the Hungarian Parliament. Dear House, It is a question, once again, which has unanimous support, at least in my best hope. When the European Union announced the Eastern Partnership policy in 2009, i.e. five years ago, its primary objective was to open up the prospect of future EU accession and integration into the EU in the case of former Soviet states belonging to the Eastern European region. From the outset, Hungary has been at the forefront of this political intention, this geopolitical endeavour, if we have supported this process by all the forums, each time, by all means, which is perspectively aimed at, at least in our interpretation, there is some debate at Union level, so that these countries, including Georgia, can become a full member of European integration, if their intention to do so is unbroken. [[12.20]] Dear House, For us, the Hungarian government, this is, in addition to being an issue of economic and security policy, a very clear issue of principle, given that for these long decades, for almost a century, the countries that hold Soviet Communist prisoners deserve the chance that Hungary received after 1989, namely, to build a socio-economic arrangement that is compatible with Western values, Western values, and to become institutionally part of Western communities, security policy and political communities. The most important way to grasp the Association Agreement is that it is a political association with an economic integration, given that a so-called deep and comprehensive free trade agreement is an integral part of the agreement, which means that it will introduce virtually full free trade measures between Georgia and the European Union, thereby contributing to Georgia and the other countries concerned? But will this be discussed in detail with regard to further legislative proposals? Its economic approach to the European Union. Dear House, This issue, today, I think, is of particular relevance, given the situation of destabilised eastern Ukraine, including security policy throughout the region. So far, there has been no such security policy relevance to the approach of the Eastern European region to the Union, but, in the last year, there has been tension over the debates on this subject, and war has now identified this as a specific security policy challenge that the European Union must address. I think that the ratification of this agreement is in this direction and represents a tangible benefit in this respect. Dear House, Hungary is around the first third of the EU Member States that I hope will ratify this agreement soon. In this way, would we like to express the fact that in addition to a number of neighbouring states in the region? Is this primarily about the Baltics, Slovakia, Romania? for us, this is a meaty security policy, once again, in economic and perhaps first place, a matter of principle, so that we can help these countries to approach the European community in this way, and then, if the intention to do so exists on both sides, they can become full members of the Union. Hungary, as well as the southern expansion, is fully in favour of eastern expansion, where the level of development and political position of the countries in question allow for accession to European integration. Dear House, That is all I wanted to say about the content of the Association Agreement, given that it is a 1500-page document, I would not go into the details. The political benefit is the main thing here, and the symbolic gesture is that this is now accepted by the Hungarian Parliament, once again, thereby joining the EU Member States which consider this issue to be particularly important. We hope that the ratification will take place by all 28 Member States by the Eastern Partnership Summit in Riga next year, which will take place in May 2015. However, even if this roadmap cannot be maintained because of the complex internal procedural structures of some Western European Member States, there is every reasonable hope that the ratification will be fully completed by the Union during 2015 and that this extremely important agreement will thus enter into force. Georgia is Hungary's key partner in the bilateral context, and a very important partner in the Caucasus region, one of the focal points of the Eastern opening policy. A few weeks ago, we held a joint economic committee meeting with Georgia, a few days ago the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Péter Szijjártó, who met with all the dignity of public law from the Prime Minister, and had a very friendly welcome. Does that also indicate that these people? Georgia and the Georgian people? count on Hungary's support and assistance as regards their integration in the EU and the promotion of this process. Dear House, Let me also point out that, with the entry into force of this Association Agreement, a kind of institutionalisation will be launched in terms of political dialogue between the EU and Georgia and, once again, there will be very concrete results on the economic line. Dear House, I ask for your support for the adoption of this bill, which has the support of the European Union as a whole. This agreement was signed six months ago by the parties, so the text can be considered virtually final. I consider this to be a formal and, at the same time, a large, symbolic act, so that the Hungarian Parliament accepts this bill as soon as possible. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-11-18-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. And now, Honourable Parliament, there will be speeches, the first of which will be speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-18-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We are well aware that the 2009 Prague Summit, which included six countries, including Georgia in the European Union's neighbourhood policy, gave a boost and a kick-start for the Eastern Partnership programme. After last year's Vilnius Summit, the Latvian EU Presidency will organise the next Eastern Partnership Summit next year. Ladies and gentlemen, The Association Agreement? As the Secretary of State said? it provides for closer political, economic and institutional cooperation between the EU and a third country, in this case Georgia, but the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area is part of this Association Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, Is there a new type of agreement on our agenda that goes significantly further than traditional economic integration and is deeper and more comprehensive than with Central European countries? Do I remind you, for example, of Hungary? European agreements concluded in 1991 or, for example, subsequent Stabilisation and Association Agreements with the Western Balkan States. I would like to remind my fellow Members that the Association Agreement represents a so-called high or higher degree of European integration. On the one hand, it provides a vision and orientation for Georgia, on the other hand, it imposes an obligation on both the European Union and the associated country. Internal reforms aimed at strengthening democracy and the market economy, I believe, do facilitate Georgia's participation in EU policies, programmes and agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Association Agreement faithfully reflects the commitment of the parties to respect for common values such as democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. These are the common values on which the European Union is based, and are also central to the political association and economic integration envisaged by the Association Agreement. The treaty before us also sets out areas for the most important reforms. In particular, we see justice, public administration, law enforcement, environmental protection and consumer protection, all of which are important parts of the European integration of a given country. [[12.30]] The third part of the agreement, as Mr Secretary of State has said, will also help to deepen trade relations by opening up markets or by breaking down customs duties and by bringing trade rules and standards closer together. It is very important to point out that the Treaty provides for the timely introduction of a visa-free travel system for the citizens of Georgia, provided that conditions for well-managed and secure mobility, including, for example, the effective implementation of visa facilitation and readmission agreements, are established. I would like to stress the importance of the European country recognised by the preamble to the Association Agreement, so as to ensure that Georgia will, if the necessary conditions are met, be recognised as a European country? Who knows when? submit a request for membership to the European institutions. And indeed, as Mr Secretary of State has said, he is giving an important signal not only to Georgia, but also to the neighbouring countries of the Caucasus, who have chosen Europe as their future, not Asia. When we are talking about the Association Agreement, we could detail, for example, the opportunities that will open up to economic cooperation or trade relations, energy or, for example, foreign and security policy cooperation, but instead allow it, because there is a political debate here to highlight two things. One is political dialogue and the other is the importance of institutional relations. The preamble to the agreement therefore recognises Georgia's European aspirations and commitment to Europe. I believe that this is an extremely important statute. This commitment is also well reflected in the historic meeting of the Georgian Parliament on 18 July this year, when Members unanimously voted in favour of the ratification of the Georgian Association Agreement. This is a treasure that I feel should be preserved by Georgia in the process of further integration. And it is precisely one of the main tasks of the Association Section to maintain this consensus and to regularly declare it. Ladies and gentlemen, Political dialogue not only means deepening relations between the associated country and the institutions of the European Union, but it is important that Member States contribute to strengthening cooperation at both government and parliamentary level. So not only Georgia but also the Member States of the European Union have work to do here. In this context, it is of the utmost importance that the Chair of the European Integration Affairs Committee of the Parliaments of the Member States took part in the so-called COSAC meeting in Athens in June this year. So, in practice, our body, which we are part of, has advanced this kind of associated membership to Georgia by the gnome of the Presidents of the European Union committees or of the Committee on European Affairs. That is why we have invited them to our meeting earlier, so that they can have a little insight into how the European Union works from the inside, especially with regard to parliamentary cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, And between the Parliamentary Committees of the Visegrád Four on European Affairs and the Co-Committee in Georgia, I would like to say that there has been an ever closer relationship. For example, last year we received the Georgian delegation at the Visegrád Four Presidents' Conference in Gdańsk, and in July this year the invitation of the Georgian Parliament took place in Batumi to meet the committee presidents of the Visegrád Four. This meeting focused on issues related to the Association Agreement or the harmonisation of legislation, and on the exchange of experience on the functioning of the Joint Parliamentary Committees. At the meeting, we adopted a joint declaration in which the parties supported the strengthening of parliamentary cooperation, the involvement of civil society in the integration process of the country and the facilitation of the visa waiver of Georgian citizens in the European Union. I believe, fellow Members, that intensive and regular political dialogue at this stage can help to facilitate the ratification process of the Association Agreement, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, it is very important to emphasise that it can prepare for institutional, legal changes in the application of the Agreement. However, it is worth pointing out that we are not facing a static and short-term process, and that regional cooperation and security and the political consensus surrounding the European value choice are essential to the creation of an association. In this respect, Georgia can benefit from the Visegrád Four EU accession process with valuable and useful information, in which we, the Committee on European Affairs of the Hungarian Parliament, have offered our cooperation to the partner committee. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Fidesz Group, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-56	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your comment. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Government of Hungary may think that the West is falling fatally, but the three EU association treaties we are discussing today prove this to be a serious mistake. We hear it from three countries at the same time: life outside the EU is not attractive at all. The Georgian Association Treaty, which is now on the table, is based on two important historical lessons. The first is that the XXI. In the century, integration processes are inevitable. While the interests of being a nation state must be preserved, it is also clear that countries can do more for their citizens in a community of values and interests. In addition to the European Union, this process is also seen on the American and Asian continents. The challenges that arise are becoming less respectable, demanding national borders. Whether we think of multi-company money-moving maneuvers or criminal or terrorist organisations, these are international phenomena. Lonely country has little chance of protecting its citizens, creating growth. Another lesson is that Europe, the European Union, is attractive. This is how they see it in Georgia. The old goal and plan of the Caucasus Republic is Western integration. The process has come to a significant and important milestone. The association agreement brings the country's legal order and economy closer to Europe. This is a big step for Georgia and a big step for the Union. With the association of the country, the Union can show the states and peoples of the Caucasus region that it is worth choosing freedom, democracy and the rule of law. At the same time, it is the responsibility of the EU Member States and the European Commission to deliver tangible results for Georgian society as a whole. If, by removing trade barriers, only the local elite and a few multi-company companies are enriched, they can easily bring harmful counter-reactions, discrediting the EU's positive values throughout a region. We, through our representation in the European Parliament and with the help of the European greens, will also try to bring the benefits of the partnership to the poorest groups in this country. It is equally important not to let natural resources be robbed, waste resources, for Georgia and the Caucasus are not only important for Europe in the short term. The Caucasus region is currently under the impression of a disturbed beehive, sometimes even a powder keg since the fall of the Soviet Union. We are convinced that if the partnership is successful in Georgia, they can look at the country as an example to follow throughout the region. This can also bring stability and tranquillity to the surrounding people who have suffered a great deal. In view of this, the LMP clearly and strongly supports the association of Georgia and the European Union, subject to the continuous monitoring of social and environmental aspects. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[12.40]]
u2014-11-18-58	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the KDNP and Jobbik Group have indicated that they do not wish to speak. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on this subject. [[No one's reporting.]] Since I do not see a candidate, I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-18-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you for your supportive words. To one moment, allow me to respond: there is not yet a country in the European Union that has done as much and has done in practical terms to ensure the integration of the countries of the surrounding regions into the European Union as Hungary. So there is no such thing as that which is not important to us in any way. On the contrary, Hungary has the inexorable merit of Croatia being able to join at the time; Hungary has the inexorable merit of Serbia's integration in the EU at the pace in which it is moving; Hungary has its inexhaustible merits, and will it continue to be so, in promoting transatlantic integration in the Western Balkan countries, and in this way also the countries of the Eastern European region? and we are talking about Georgia in the first place - they have the full support of the Hungarian government. We are convinced that the only way to achieve long-term consolidation and economic perspective for this region of vomit is to have a real development perspective, if this is related to the European Union, and this means a closer link as possible; first of all, a political association with an economic free trade agreement, and once again, if the peoples concerned so wish, full membership. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-18-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The general debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendments will be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, will follow. The submission was made by T/1961. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr Levente Magyar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-61	Thank you very much for that word again. Mr President, Dear House, I will not be able to say anything new about the Moldovan Association Agreement compared to what I said about Georgia. Perhaps you should allow this to be a decisive step in the interests and survival of an independent and sovereign Moldova. If the European Union legitimizes Moldova in this way, then it is, I think, that it will consolidate the situation of this country, which is also vomitous in the long term, and that there are various efforts on the part of neighbouring powers and great powers that are well-known to this country, which affect Moldovan sovereignty. The Hungarian Government considers this to be an important issue and would like to emphasise in this way that ratification of the Association Agreement with Moldova is also of great importance in this respect. Moreover, the same provisions apply to Moldova, which there is no substantive difference for Georgia. Once again with regard to the measures, provisions and benefits of the Association Agreement and the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement: we are supporters of Moldovan sovereignty and autonomy, if and as long as the Moldovan people believe that this is the right way, and we believe that this agreement can be an important step in preserving Moldova's development and integrity. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-18-62	Thank you very much. We now have speeches from our representatives, first from the lead speaker's group. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Congressman, please.
u2014-11-18-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I make my speech as a keynote speaker, allow me to make a personal remark. A little déj? I have a feeling when we hold a debate here at the Hungarian Parliament on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Moldavia, because with this document we have reached a very, very important stage in the European integration of Moldavia. As a former member of the Hungarian Parliament and the Strasbourg-based Council of Europe, I was there just 20 years ago when Moldavia asked to be a member of the Council of Europe. As a reporter of the Council of Europe's legal committee, 20 years ago, I visited Moldavia frequently, and so I have some insight into what has changed in this country over the past 20 years, and what positive processes have started in terms of European integration. Thank God we arrived in 20 years to talk about the association agreement here in the Hungarian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Moldova is also on the agenda for the ratification of an Association Agreement, which, like the treaty with Georgia, was initialled at last year's Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius and signed at the European Council Summit in June this year. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, in the Eastern Partnership Initiative, which started in 2009, the three countries discussed at our meeting today have undoubtedly moved on the bumpy path of European integration. I could also say that they are facing a new era, but we cannot talk about a group of countries in these three countries, because their future depends solely on the individual performance of the associated countries and the fulfilment of the necessary conditions. So the situation here is not nearly the same as in the Visegrád countries, for example, when the European Community spoke at the time, to join in a kind of convoy. In the case of the Association Agreement with the Republic of Moldova, the bill is a major reminder of the agreement with Georgia, as the State Secretary mentioned. The agreement recognises that the Republic of Moldova, as a European country, has a common history and values with the Member States and is committed to implementing and promoting these values. I have just mentioned that we are talking about a new type of agreement, from the EU's point of view we are talking about the fourth generation agreement. This is already going far beyond traditional economic integration and deeper and more comprehensive than the so-called third generation agreements. This latter category includes European agreements with Central European countries in the early 1990s or later stabilisation and association agreements with the Western Balkan States. Ladies and gentlemen, An important objective of the Association Agreement is to achieve gradual economic integration into the EU internal market under the provisions of this Agreement, including through a deep and comprehensive free trade area which forms an integral part of this Agreement. In addition, independent economic analyses show that Moldova's participation in the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area will increase its exports to the EU by 15-16 percent, if I remember correctly, and its imports from the EU by 8 percent. [[12.50]] Moreover, Moldovan agricultural products will also be easier to reach the EU market by eliminating EU import duties for both primary and processed agricultural products. For example, does the Association Agreement with Hungary come back here a little bit, and the European Union is there? Or is it still the European Communities? made unilateral concessions. The agreement therefore includes provisions on common values, reforms and trade relations, as well as provisions on approximation and institution-building. It is also important for Moldova to emphasise the importance of political dialogue and the importance of regional cooperation. Moreover, the agreement also covers the area of DNA; we hope that this issue of sovereignty will soon be resolved, and I believe that this will also be crucial in the process of Moldova's European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to report that one of the objectives of the Association Agreement, namely the introduction of a visa-free travel system for citizens of the Republic of Moldova, has now been achieved: Moldova in the European Union's eastern neighbourhood policy? Can I say that? Special situation as Moldovan citizens have been able to travel visa-free in the 28 Member States of the European Union with a so-called biometric passport for a short stay since 28 April 2014. When we talk about countries' integration aspirations, I think it is worth raising awareness, perhaps the most important thing is that voters also feel the benefits of this in Moldova, and that we can demonstrate these benefits. One excellent example of this is the visa waiver, the promotion of people-to-people relations, as was the case with Hungary: when the borders were broken down, we did not have to change visas when we were free to go from one country to another? I believe this is the first and most important sense of life for citizens, the benefits of integration. In the context of the parliamentary ratification process of the Association Agreement, it is also worth recalling that last week the European Parliament supported the agreement, the application of which requires the ratification of all the parliaments of the Member States, but the provisions of the Free Trade Agreement can now be applied on a provisional basis, contributing to the convergence of the two markets. So, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary elections in Moldova at the end of the month will be of crucial importance for the future of the association, in which, where appropriate, the country can demonstrate its commitment to European values. Needless to say, at this stage of integration, every parliamentary election is of particular importance and can determine the future of the association for several years. I would also like to remind my fellow Members here that the Moldovan Parliament ratified the association agreement with the EU by 59 votes in favour, 4 votes against, on 2 July this year, and, as you know, the adoption of the agreement required a simple majority, i.e. 51 votes in favour of 101 votes. The governing association, the representatives of the European Integration Coalition, therefore supported the Association Agreement, but it should be a warning to all the EU Member States that the opposition with 40 percent of the seats was opposed to ratification; there is no such situation as in the case of the country previously discussed. So it's warning us that the picture isn't so clear. The group of Communists, which has 34 mandates, and the Group of the Party for Rebirth protested with 3 mandates, left the Chamber as a sign of this. So this should be a warning to us as to why it is important to do this ratification as soon as possible here in the Hungarian Parliament and in the parliaments of the other 27 Member States: that we try to start Moldavia as much as possible with Europe, through European integration. That is why I ask my fellow Members, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-64	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We are deciding to ratify Moldova's EU Association Treaty. One of the poorest countries in Europe is stepping on the path that we hope will bring rapid and tangible progress to its inhabitants; this in itself gives great importance to the ratification of the Convention. The Moldovan Association Treaty is also part of an association wave, similar to the Ukrainian and Georgian agreements. Another example is that the European Union, which has been scolded and buried many times, remains the only viable form of integration with a perspective for the states and peoples of the middle of the continent. Moldova is another example that catching up and ascension will continue to lead to the West. Moldova's partnership, which promises full membership of the EU in the longer term, does not merely territorially increase the community of countries that claim European values and legal order, not only will this club grow and grow, of which we have been a member for ten years now, but it will also grow. The more countries rule the rule of law and democracy on the continent, the more ties Europe's nations. If we recall that the most important reason for the establishment and existence of the European Union was to ensure peace, freedom and growth, then we can say that Moldova's association serves these goals well. The promise of peace may seem to us an inexplicable slogan, but it certainly means much more in Moldova, since the eastern part of the country, beyond the Dniester, is controlled by armed separatists. If Moldova and the association take the path of development, if the results are felt, it will be very difficult to maintain the attractiveness of the military dictatorship in the Separatist Communist Skansen countries. If Moldova and, of course, Ukraine are successful with regard to the association, then more and more peoples, territories, countries will follow their example, the European way. What's the consequence? The fact that the more developed West is the responsibility and fundamental interest of the already full EU Member States is the success of the association agreements. Are we well aware that only free trade agreements are? As I referred to in the association agreement of the former state? In the hands of a narrow elite, they can focus power while robbing the human and natural resources of a country. Today, in the eastern part of our continent, this is not only immoral, but also unacceptable, because the Moscow-based Eurasian Union does not demand transparency, it does not demand consumer and human rights, so it can be an attractive, more convenient alternative for the local elites. There can be only one way to counter this temptation: if the Union also offers people tangible, understandable progress and ascension. If we lose sight of this, if we see only our short-term economic interests in the EU, if we want to forint everything immediately, then we cannot hope for lasting trust and European commitment from the citizens of the Associated States. Of course, the LMP considers Moldova's EU Association Treaty to be worthy of support. We believe that openness is absolutely important on our part, and through our representation in the European Parliament, we are doing everything we can to ensure that the benefits of this partnership reach the widest layers of Moldovan society. The real meaning of the agreement to be ratified today is that we can create lasting stability in Central and Eastern Europe. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-11-18-66	Thank you very much. As Chief Speaker, no one else came forward. I'll ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. In that case, the general debate will be closed and I will ask the Secretary of State as rapporteur if he wishes to react. [[On the sign of Hungarian Levente:]] The Secretary of State says no. In that case, Honourable Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be tabled on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the draft law on the publication of an Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, until closure. [[13.00]] The submission is T/1960. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. Do I give you the floor first? Just like before? Mr Levente Magyar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-18-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At first glance, perhaps the ratification of the Association Agreement with Ukraine fits into the line that we have discussed in recent minutes, but after a more thorough examination, we can conclude that Ukraine is subject to a one-tenth of a magnitude greater consequences, a case with an order of magnitude greater than that, as far as the Hungarian aspects are concerned, that can be said in any case. Of course, there are very specific reasons for this, which I would like to mention in detail in the next few minutes. First of all, this House, Ukraine, is the largest country in the Eastern Partnership states, with a population as large as all the other states in the Eastern Partnership, and not all of them are close to Ukraine's population of some 45 million. This shows the importance of Ukraine's move towards European integration in an institutional way. The most important aspect number two in this respect is the obvious fact that, in the case of Ukraine, we are talking about the scene of a geopolitical game, a geostrategic game, and we are experiencing very dramatic and tangible elements of this every day, if we are thinking about the war in eastern Ukraine. It marks the weight of this issue, Mr House, that the failure to sign the association agreement with Ukraine at last year's Vilnius summit was the direct cause of the domestic political wave, the internal political disturbance that ultimately led to the current war in Eastern Ukraine. In this way, I think that there is no need to stress the importance of ratifying this Treaty or not, at all, the importance of Ukraine's question. Another important aspect, this House, is that, unlike the Moldovan and Georgian parliaments and political parties and public life, Ukraine has been extremely divided for a long time as to whether or not they wish to move towards the European Union in the framework of the Association Agreement. Today, this situation has changed, but this is clearly due to developments over the past year due to the lack of signature at the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius. Today, there is a unanimous support for this Association Agreement, as the June signing has shown, but if we go deeper and explore the background of the current political constellation from this perspective, we will find that there is a strong division, of course, to this day, if we look at Ukraine as a whole? whether Ukraine should move towards the European Union in this way. Dear House, At the same time, I think that after 15 years of war in a neighbouring state of Hungary, we have a very clear choice as a government as a Hungarian people, and we must support all the efforts that can make a substantial contribution to the stability and consolidation of our immediate region, and we consider this Association Agreement to be an important step in the direction of peace and stability in Ukraine. It is only because an agreement was reached with the Russian party that a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement relating to the Association Agreement and forming part of it will only enter into force in 2016 for Ukraine. Thus, in a constructive dialogue with Russia, which clearly does not support this Association Agreement, it has been possible to agree on this economic dimension in this way. Once again, we therefore see the need to adopt this Association Agreement in order to consolidate. Another important aspect of the agreement is the fact that not only does the Union offer privileges in it, not only does the Union offer positive benefits to Ukraine, but the agreement also addresses in part the problem that the Ukrainian State also owes a number of measures to protect minorities in Ukraine, for example. In this way, by signing the agreement, Ukraine has committed itself to respecting common political values, including democratic principles, the rule of law, good governance, human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights of national minorities. This is a development of insufficient importance for us Hungary, provided that the implementation of these commitments to Ukraine can be quasi-claimed through this Association Agreement. And here there is a special relevance to the fact that 200,000 of our countrymen live in Ukraine, who do not live in a direct war zone, but in many ways suffer from the unblessed conditions that prevail in Ukrainian public states. I would like to stress that there is unanimous support from the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia for the adoption and ratification of the Association Agreement. The Hungarian community in Transcarpathia believes that, with the consolidation of Ukraine as a whole and moving towards European integration, the Transcarpathian minority will also benefit, which is in the utmost interest of linking with the European Union as much as possible. On this path, ratification of the agreement we are discussing is an important step. Dear House, Once again, I would like to stress that Ukraine cannot be treated under the same hat as the Moldovan and Georgian agreements previously negotiated, although they themselves have great relevance. From a Hungarian point of view, the Eastern Partnership is the only immediate neighbour of Ukraine; the largest state of the Eastern Partnership is Ukraine. A significant Hungarian minority lives in Ukraine from the Eastern Partnership countries. Ukraine is the country that needs tangible help in the current situation, because there is a war in Ukraine. These aspects all point to the fact that the Hungarian legislation is largely justified on the basis of Hungarian national considerations. I am asking the honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, of this House, to justify this endeavour of the Hungarian Government by accepting the publication of the Association Agreement. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-11-18-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now, the representatives' comments, the lead speaker's round first. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Ukraine was not signed until June this year, instead of the originally planned Vilnius Summit last November. As the Secretary of State has said, the signing of the non-contractual nature was the spark that launched a very serious social movement and which later resulted in an armed conflict. Ladies and gentlemen, In the general debate on the proposed Ukrainian Association Agreement, I believe it is extremely important to state that Hungary has a fundamental interest in ratifying this Association Treaty, not only for Hungary, but also for the other 27 Member States of the European Union, mainly because of the strategic situation of Ukraine. [[13.10]] Firstly, I am thinking of the decisive transit role played in gas supplies in Europe and, of course, the enforcement of the rights of the Hungarian minority there. Therefore, it is particularly important for us to ratify this document, as in the case of Ukraine, the protection of the rights and interests of the Hungarian minority in the Transcarpathia of more than 150,000 people is also our duty under the Fundamental Law. In view of the events in Ukraine over the last few months, I would like to recall the meeting of the heads of state of the Visegrád countries in Bratislava, where the participants assured the Ukrainian head of state who took part in the event of their joint solidarity and united action. President János Áder confirmed the Hungarian position on Ukraine:. Hungary is interested in making Ukraine an independent country, which preserves its territorial integrity, and which is an economically stable and prosperous country that chooses the path of its democratic development. In connection with this, I would like to inform my fellow Members that this September, within the framework of the Krynica Economic Forum, the Carpathian Europe Conference created an excellent opportunity for Polish, Czech, Romanian, Serbian, Slovak and Hungarian Members to jointly exchange views on the situation in Ukraine. At the conference, we agreed to condemn Russia's aggression against Ukraine and urged the restoration of Ukraine's territorial unit. Ladies and gentlemen, With the Association Agreement, Ukraine has moved to a higher degree of European integration, but it has therefore had to pay a huge price. The preamble to the Association Agreement itself recognises that in Ukraine public opinion strongly supports the country's European path and confirms that Ukraine, as a European country, has a history and shared values with the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, the Association Agreement also provides for the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade zone for Ukraine. It then includes provisions on common values, reforms, trade relations, approximation and institutional development. I would like to inform my fellow Members that both the European Parliament and the Ukrainian legislature ratified the association and free trade agreement signed between the EU and Ukraine on 16 September 2014. Members of the European Parliament supported the Ukrainian Association Agreement with 535 votes in favour, 127 votes against and 35 abstentions. At the same time, Ukrainian legislation in Kiev also ratified the treaty, which creates political association and economic integration between the European Union and Ukraine. The Association Agreement offers a compass for Ukraine's transformation into a modern and prosperous European democracy, a joint statement by Mr Van Rompuy, President of the Council of Europe and José Manuel Barroso, President of the European Commission. As a result of the votes in Strasbourg and Kiev, the political part of the agreement will therefore be provisionally applied as soon as the Council confirms it. Mr President, The entry into force of the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement requires all 28 EU Member States to ratify what has been completed in just a few countries, so it is expected that the process will take several years. The EU agreed in tripartite negotiations with Kiev and Moscow to postpone the provisional application of the Free Trade Agreement until the end of December 2015. This is therefore without prejudice to the trade preferences granted by the EU to Ukraine, which the Union has applied unilaterally since the beginning of the summer and would like to extend after 1 November. This therefore means, ladies and gentlemen, that a large part of Ukrainian goods can enter the Union market duty-free, while Ukraine is not obliged to grant the same preferences to the EU Member States. The Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement therefore essentially means the integration of the EU and Ukrainian markets. It eliminates import duties and prohibits further trade restrictions, although it maintains certain restrictions and transitional periods in certain sensitive areas such as the trade in agricultural products. Ladies and gentlemen, However, we must not forget that Ukraine is experiencing very serious economic and financial difficulties. All I have to do is point out that the European Union had to guarantee that Ukraine could partially repay its gas account against Russia. On 30 October 2014, representatives of Russia, Ukraine and the European Commission signed a protocol containing the Russian-Ukrainian gas dispute, the interim agreement for the winter heating season until the end of March, and the technical document governing its implementation, signed by Gazprom and the leaders of Naftogaz in Ukraine. The total value of the agreement is $4.6 billion. Why is that important? At the signing ceremony, Commission President José Manuel Barroso said that thanks to the agreement, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe do not have to freeze during the winter. We can guarantee a secure gas supply in the winter, added European Commissioner for Energy Günther Oettinger, who, as a kind of intermediary, contributed to the creation of this trilateral agreement. So it is important for us in many ways that this treaty is ratified by the Hungarian Parliament. That is why I would also ask my fellow Members on behalf of the Fidesz faction to adopt this bill as soon as possible. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-70	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Under ideal circumstances, Jobbik respects a country's sovereign right to decide which organization it intends to join. Ideal circumstances! However, in the case of Ukraine, we have two reasons to reject this association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. Our first reason for this is the geopolitical background which was referred to by both Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik, who was before me. It is very, very important that a country's decision on this type of integration process should be legitimate. If we look at what events have resulted in the decision to launch the European Union integration process in Ukraine, we need to establish that this was not the result of a legitimate process. I note in brackets that this is not the case either in Georgia, and the European Union integration process also started in Georgia after the Western Friendly Saakashvili government in Georgia was brought into power with Punch and the CIA's strong support. From there, the process of Georgia's European integration efforts will be dated. We are facing a similar situation in Ukraine. If we look at the events that took place after the Vilnius summit, where President Janukovics refused to sign the European Union Association Treaty, we must say that we probably did not witness a spontaneous uprising. [[13.20]] We now know, and we can also confirm with facts, the means by which the European Union, the West, the United States of America forced Ukraine to move in this direction. Yes, this is a geopolitical conflict, Ukraine has been the victim of a geopolitical conflict. Obviously, one of the actors in this is Russia, which is important for Ukraine in terms of national security, but we need to see who provoked this situation. When we have evidence that Victoria Nuland, U.S. Secretary of State, State Department, U.S. State Department, calls the U.S. Ambassador of Kiev on the phone and, after sending the European Union to a warmer climate, says in a pen who she wants to have power in Ukraine, lists the people that the United States of America needs to help in government through secret service and other means, then the legitimacy of this process is called into question. Therefore, this is one of our reasons for not considering this process legitimate and rejecting this Association Treaty. The other reason is even clearer and perhaps even more important, because there is a reference here to what this Association Treaty contains. By signing this Association Agreement, the Parties say that they will also respect human rights and Community rights. And I ask myself: can Ukraine be said that human and community rights have been taken into account even to a tiny extent since its establishment? We must say that we must say that since its existence Ukraine has trampled on human and minority rights, denied the right to self-determination of minorities living in its territory, deprived indigenous minorities of the right to use the language and intimidated them with its extremely chauvinistic policy, which has characterized the Ukrainian government since its establishment. In particular, the Ukrainian government which, after the coup on 21 February, is in Ukraine. I would like to remind you of the first measure taken by the Ukrainian Parliament, the Rada, after the banishment of the Janukovics government on 21 February. In case you don't remember, I'll tell you: the withdrawal of the language law, which has never been put into effect, was never a working language law, yet it looked good on paper. And if it had been implemented in Ukraine, it would have granted the right to use the language to minorities in a satisfactory manner, but this language law was not in place, and even this was withdrawn by the Ukrainian Parliament as its first measure. This affects not only the 200,000 Hungarian minorities in Ukraine and in Transcarpathia. Of course, this is the primary national interest for us to stand up for the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians, and to defend and safeguard their rights. But it also violates the rights of the Russian, Romanian, Polish and very large numbers of Russian minorities in Ukraine. By revoking this language law, Ukraine has demonstrated that it does not respect human and Community rights to the least extent. Since then, however, Ukraine has not only taken such administrative steps against minorities, but has also openly fought against its own citizens with weapons prohibited by international law, and is trying to suppress and prevent minorities in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Central Election Commission? Didn't you recently have elections in Ukraine in October? He broke the law in force and left the electoral districts unchanged, so he deprived Transcarpathian Hungarians of the right to choose a representative for the rada himself at the parliamentary elections in October. Instead of raising his voice, the Hungarian government would have used the veto, using only soundy words. He said how much he stands up for minority rights in Ukraine, how much he protects Transcarpathian Hungarians, but he did nothing to allow Hungarian representatives in Ukraine, who were elected directly by the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, to enter the Rada. Instead, did you turn a blind eye to one of those impertinent compromises? Even though there was a prior promise between Porosenko and KMSK? that on the list of a Ukrainian party, betraying the Hungarian national interests in Transcarpathia, a representative would sit on the list of a Ukrainian party in the Rada. The Hungarian Government has assisted and has not enforced national interests, has not acted against Ukraine and has not brought this problem to Brussels, since we are talking about EU accession and an association treaty. Hungary should also stand harder in Brussels against the Souvinist regime of Porosenko and for the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians. Since the change of regime in Hungary, unfortunately, governments that are completely naively imagining that the integration of the European Union and the integration process in the European Union will solve the problems of Hungarians across borders. They talk about human rights, community rights, and that when we all come to Brussels, these problems will be solved. Well, fellow Members, this European Union, without hesitation, tolerates Beneš Decrees to live completely unchanged within the community; that Slovakia should be a language law such as that; that in Romania the Szeklers' right of self-determination should be repressed, deprived of their right to self-determination, and that other methods should be used to suppress and assimilate minorities; and that I could list them for a very long time. So, to expect this European Union that Hungarian minority rights will become full of naivety within its interests. We are convinced that only within the framework of Ukraine can the rights of minorities and thus the rights of Transcarpathian Hungarians, which have balanced relations with both the European Union and Russia, and which, of course, not only cultivates these relations, but also accepts the ethnic aspects that respect the need for regional self-determination, even in such a way as to create Ukraine within a confederative framework. The European Union should also press for this instead of economic sanctions, which affect both Hungary and each Member State of the European Union to a very large extent and are completely contrary to our economic and commercial interests. The primary task of this European Union would be to promote this kind of reconciliation in Ukraine, not to provoke Russia by implementing the monopolar world order, which was very clear about how it would react to such an eastern western push. This is something to love, not to love, not to say that we have to accept this kind of aspect. Just don't be surprised, fellow Members, if this will lead to a global conflict in which Hungary is actively involved and, unfortunately, it will act entirely against Hungarian national interests. Once again, the situation has arisen, as has been the case many, many times in our history, that we are standing in a conflict zone on the front line between two great powers colliding above our heads. I do not want Hungary to be actively involved in such a conflict again. After all, it is quite clear that we will be the number one indemnities of this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-18-72	Thank you very much. Coming up next, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[13.30]]
u2014-11-18-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, There has been so much bad news here at home and at all in foreign policy over the last few years, so I think we should appreciate that we can talk about such a positive development here in the Hungarian Parliament. This is about a treaty of association between Ukraine and the European Union being ratified. Hungary has joined the first countries to ratify this Association Treaty. I think that in itself is joyful. At the same time, I have to start with a review. It is because it is completely incomprehensible to me why the House is not negotiating such an agenda as a European agenda, especially knowing that there are many Hungarian MEPs in the EP who have something to say about this case, such as Tamás Meszerics, MEP of the LMP, would also like to express their views, but because it is not a European agenda, so these Members are not allowed to speak. So I would like to ask Mr State Secretary that, if such items of agenda are presented to the House, there should be a default in the Hungarian Parliament, so that we can treat them as European agendas, so that MEPs can also hear their views. I think that I will return in a more positive direction: we must see that we should be pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, led by Fidesz and Péter Szijjártó, does not hinder or slow down this ratification process. I don't know exactly why. Perhaps they are beginning to recognize the impossible situation in Hungary in the foreign policy sphere, or their life-threatening rocking policy is just tilting in a direction that is currently in the position of this treaty. In any case, I am pleased that the European Commission and the Council have taken their request, and that now the Ukrainian, Georgian and Moldovan Association Agreements can be brought before the Hungarian Parliament, one day, all three in a row, but seeing that there really are points that we need to discuss here. However, I would like to start by saying that here is a very important moment that both Ukraine and the European Union have an interest in bringing things closer together. I can make many arguments, but I'm going to start by saying that this is a matter of conscience. Especially now, under such conditions as we are now living in, I think that it is also a matter of conscience for all of us, not only that we do not stop this agreement, but first we are trying to help to ratify it with the active cooperation of Hungary. There are a number of questions that need to be asked. So can we deny a nation, for example, European integration, its move to a higher level in a situation where the citizens of this nation have risked their lives to show that they want to orient themselves to the west and not to the east? Can we refuse to approach Ukraine if the country's elected leaders undertake to further develop their legal system on the basis of democratic values and European rules? The answer is obvious: obviously we cannot deny it. The LMP's response is also clear and firm: Europe's gates must be wide open to all nations, countries wishing to join, in the event that they feel they have European values and are willing to create a setup where this can prevail. As Hungarians, we must not forget this moral order, because we all remember that not so long ago we went down the same path that our eastern neighbours are about to take. Obviously, Ukraine starts from a situation so much more difficult that it spent more time and was more deeply integrated into the Soviet bloc. More than that, we have a duty to help this country. It is worth stopping for a moment and recalling Hungary in the nineties. There have been many scandalous developments, insulting injustices, but there has been one thing that has unified this country, and it is the belief that our values and interests link us to the western half of the continent and not to the east. I recall, and here, in the Hungarian Parliament, I say that since St. Stephen, it is an eternal struggle for the country to get closer to the West and not to the East, and I always say that I have a hope that the Fidesz government will recognize what St. Stephen has been sending to this nation, and that he is not trying to turn this country into a completely different path than what we have been fighting for now, I can say that for centuries. Of course, today that we are full members of the Union, we feel much better, we see the problems of the community, we also see its internal tensions, and that is indisputable. Everywhere on this planet there are problems, there are problems in the European Union, and we are also talking about it from time to time, because it is our duty to try to bring that community in a direction that is beneficial to all members of the community. But the commitment of our Ukrainian friends reminds everyone that even being a member of a Union with such problems is much better than, let's say, gripping in a vacuum or drifting towards a Moscow-centred Eurasian union. We also need to talk about interests, especially because Fidesz, I see that you understand this language a lot better these days, and I think that if I remind them that in the case of the Association Treaty, the same thing the heart and the brains say, it will be an extra reason that we need to help this Association Treaty in any way. I think that, as an EU Member State, it is in our fundamental interest that we have been trying to influence this unpredictable situation in Ukraine for years in a direction that can calm down. We need a stable, developing, predictable Ukraine, and this is also a Hungarian interest, because it is our immediate neighbour on the one hand, but there is also Transcarpathia on the other, so in every respect I can say that this is the desirable vision for us: a stable, developing Ukraine, which can grow in a predictable way. This Association Treaty sets out the best course for these purposes. We must remain realistic, and even when we see the potential obstacles, we will assess the difficulties. It is no secret to anyone that Ukraine is having very serious problems. One of the problems is the Russian opinion. In this context, it is quite clear that Ukraine's approach to the European Union is not at all well-respected by the Putin Russia. Putin knows precisely that his Eurasian union will not soon be more attractive to people than the European Union of free nations. So Putin has used and is still alive with a number of means of exerting pressure. At these moments, when I am speaking here in the Hungarian Parliament, people are dying around Luhansk and Mariupol; separatist rebels, with Russian weapons and support, aim to mutilate Ukraine's territory. In addition, the other problem is corruption, which is also present in Ukraine. We see that there are far too many oligarchs in politics that seem untouchable and the influence of organised crime. I would also like to add that it is also important, in terms of environmental protection, that the European Union's standards be taken over. Is Ukraine in vain in many areas? Are we monitoring either agriculture or raw materials? Even though we see that it is a very important gas transit route, that if the proceeds of these goods are concentrated in the hands of few privileged people, while the masses are forced to live on pennies, this is obviously an unacceptable situation. One of the greatest benefits of the Association Agreement could be to ensure that development funds and subsidies can bring about a reduction in social inequalities in Ukraine. On the one hand, legal harmonisation and judicial cooperation are bound up in the agreement, and they encourage the hope that Europe's positive impact will reach the widest population in Ukraine and that Ukraine as a whole will be able to rise. It is very important that this happens, and I think it is absolutely important to emphasise the two guarantees of this. So that's what's supposed to happen. On the one hand, the potential and risks of the Association Agreement must also be considered in a way that we do not know when Ukraine will join the European Union, and if there is too much waiting for a nation in the anteroom of the Union, then there may be remorse, we have seen an example. It is very important that what Ukraine receives from the direction of the Union should therefore not only be directed towards a narrow elite, but also that Ukraine as a whole should be able to provide an opportunity for ascension. And the other is the need to continuously measure and monitor the social and economic impact of what is happening to Ukraine now? So the effects of the agreement? And if necessary, we need to intervene so that it can be an instrument of development and stability, not injustice. This has a huge responsibility both for the current EU countries and for the European Commission in particular. Therefore, they should also be taken into account in the next period. It is not enough to ratify an agreement, we must not leave that country to its fate, and Hungary, as an EU Member State, must also constantly and fully defend itself in order to bring about better times for Ukraine and Ukraine as a whole. On the one hand, we must be honest about these problems. We Hungarians also know these problems more than we would like, so obviously we have something to sweep around our own house. [[13.40]] But that is precisely why I think that through exchange of experiences and cooperation Hungary can walk and help. Moreover, the free civil sector can play an important role in this, and the Hungarian civil sphere has solutions to this with Ukrainian civilians, and this should be brought to their attention. In this way, it would be better to guarantee that in Ukraine there will be more than a few privileged hands of support and money from the European Union. Obviously, the new Ukrainian leadership, the Orbán government, hasn't stolen its way into the hearts of its citizens. We all remember the shameful case when Hungary simply stopped the gas transport to our neighbour a few days after the visit of the Gazprom president in Budapest. The Hungarian government could not have had any professional motive in this regard, as they tried to communicate and communicate. This is obviously a political action, which we have seen in Hungary with quite a lot of indignation, and Hungary has also received very harsh criticisms on the international stage. I think that the Hungarian government also has something to do to regain confidence. So I think it is absolutely important that we are at the forefront of ratification now. But I would like to remind the Hungarian Government that standing up for Ukraine must be continuous and stable, and it must manifest itself in all respects, and this swing policy cannot be pursued. The Hungarian government is clearly expected to stand by Ukraine, especially in these difficult times. Moreover, I think that this situation will also be another signal for Russia to see that Europe is united in its support for Ukraine. Sooner or later, you will have to acknowledge that there is no other way than cooperation, and you will have to behave accordingly. This is why I think it is very important that the Hungarian Government behaves in a consistent manner in this regard. Moreover, we, a country that has been a member of the European Union for ten years now, have a moral obligation, and it is also in our clear interest that foreign policy based on our values and not on rolling rubles, or on a secret Swiss bank account, will prevail in Central Europe. It is only able to create lasting stability in this region and lasting longer than one government cycle, and it is in our interest to have stability in this region. Finally, let me remind my fellow members of the government of something. Speaker László Fat has been thinking a lot lately about how to back out slowly and carefully from the European Union. The examples of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova give a snap answer to László Kövér's words, which I sincerely hope were driven by thoughtlessness. However, I think it is very important that Fidesz does not express such messages, because it is in the interests of all Hungary that we can be there as full members of the European Union and that we can influence the community of which we are members. These are very irresponsible statements, and they lead the country in a very, very bad direction not only its authority, but also its atmosphere within the country itself. I think it's time for the Fidesz to break up with these rhetoric. I sincerely hope that this is just how you talk, but this is not how you think about the community of which we are a full member. People who want to get into the European Union as soon as possible or get closer to European free nations find that being an imperfect European Union is a hundred times better than being outside this formation. Although there is life outside the EU, it is enjoyed only by the oligarchs, it means deprivation, suffering and oppression for the majority of people. The LMP therefore strongly considers the Ukrainian Association Agreement to be worthy of support and expects its vote from all responsible political forces. Thank you.
u2014-11-18-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone would like to comment on this subject. [[For signal:]] Congressman Richard Hörcsik asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that Jobbik does not support the ratification of the Association Treaty. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: It won't be up to that!]] I believe that my fellow Members will miss an opportunity to facilitate Ukraine's democratic transformation by ratifying the Association Treaty. The Hungarian national interest is that we should not be a part or a cause of this conflict, but that we should facilitate the solution. I am primarily referring not only to diplomatic negotiations, but also to the fact that this Association Treaty, which is in front of us, is not an end goal. This is an opportunity, it is a tool, merely a tool for Ukraine to comply with European standards which it does not yet respect by nearly 100%, human rights or minority rights. How do we want to help Ukraine's democratic transformation if we do not use this instrument? If we do not have an association agreement, I am convinced that Ukraine will be pushed back to where it started, we will take away the possibility that the positive transformation, which may arise step by step, may end at some point. I have no illusions about the transformation in Ukraine. For Hungary or Central European countries, it took more than 20 years to reach a degree of integration. In the case of Ukraine, it may take 40 years. However, the initial push must be given to this country to try to find a solution and not to cause further problems. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-18-76	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you again if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any other speakers. That concludes the general debate. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[Hungarian Levente: Yes.]] You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-18-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to express my great pleasure at the fact that my preliminary expectation seems to be broadly confirmed that this case has far-reaching support. If I count correctly, the rate of support for the three Association Agreements negotiated today is 14:1, if Jobbik, at least that is what I take out of the Member's words, it will indeed not support the Ukrainian Association Agreement. This is not a bad ratio, it shows that there is almost a foreign policy consensus on this important issue. As regards the answers to be given to concrete criticisms and insights, I would like to go through the serious points, at least. As far as legitimacy is concerned, honourable Member, I would like to remind you that in November last year, when the Ukrainians, preparing for the Vilnius Summit, announced at the last minute that they would not eventually sign the Association Agreement, this text and the signature act itself were fully prepared. Technically, it turned out at the scene that the signature wasn't going to take place. Obviously, a series of actual or presumed causes can be listed in the background here. In any case, did the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian government, ever get there? And a government that can't be accused of excessive West friendship? To conclude this contract, which, at the last minute, literally ended at the last minute. My second point about this is that it is by no means the task of the Hungarian Parliament or the Hungarian Government to criticise the internal decision-making mechanisms of a sovereign player in international political life, or in any way to question the official position of a country on the ground that it is not a legitimate position, it does not reflect social support. If Ukraine steps out on the international stage saying that it would like to conclude an agreement, do we take it as a credible one? I'm gonna say it again? The position of the sovereign, independent player of international life, which, if this coincides with the Hungarian national interests, we see here that it coincides, we will support and support it in this case as well. As regards respect for human and Community rights, honourable Member, no one doubts that the extremely difficult economic and security Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian government, is facing serious challenges in a range of areas, including respect for and enforcement of these rights. The Hungarian Government expressed its dissatisfaction, and even, if I remember correctly, we may have used a stronger term, when during the spring the Ukrainian legislation practically abolished the language law, although, as the Member mentioned, it was never really sufficiently implemented and was not formally abolished. But in any case, this symbolic gesture has been taken very negatively, and we have also voiced it. [[13.50]] I think that, in order to fully enforce the rights of Hungarian national minorities, an important tool can be to establish institutional dialogue, institutional expectations and initiate Ukraine. In this way, the conclusion of this agreement between the European Union and Ukraine becomes practically accountable on behalf of the European Union, not on a bilateral basis, but on behalf of the EU, for a series of minority or human rights that we had to declare earlier. Obviously, it will have a much greater support, a much greater legitimacy of these comments. Believe me, Mr President, when we make any major decision on Ukraine, the primary consideration that we are considering is what best serves the interests of the Ukrainian Hungarians. So I think it is in no way possible to accuse the Hungarian Government of ignoring the word of Transcarpathian Hungarians. It is even less possible to make this accusation that the Hungarians of Transcarpathia unanimously support the Hungarian Parliament to take this step that underpins the integration perspective. Therefore, the situation cannot happen on the part of a responsible government that the Hungarian national minority is asking for something beyond the borders in a matter of important international relations, and we ignore it, taking the right to us to determine more thoroughly about Budapest and to formulate a more objective position. So we do not want to deprive Transcarpathian Hungarians of the possibility of enforcing their own interests on this issue, nor do we want to deprive them of the possibility that will be objectively maintained, and that they will be one more step closer to Hungary, even one step closer to Europe, which will certainly bring relief in a number of practical areas, including everyday contact. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt will be replaced by Ms.Erzsébet Schmuck.]] As regards relations with President Porosenko, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was at the inauguration of President Porosenko, where a bilateral meeting was held. Yesterday, everyone in the press was informed that a telephone conversation had taken place between the two leaders, which will soon be followed by an official meeting, so we will certainly strive to have an intensive dialogue with the new Ukrainian leadership, the legitimate Ukrainian leadership, especially with regard to improving the situation of the Hungarian minority in Ukraine. There will be a Foreign Minister meeting soon, and I will be spending several days in Ukraine myself, so the Hungarian Foreign Affairs apparatus and the Hungarian Government are working intensively to formulate our position in a high-level dialogue and to uphold on the part of the Ukrainians the rights of nationality and minorities that they are required not only by this agreement, but also by a number of other international conventions and bilateral agreements. Madam Member, helping Ukraine is certainly also a priority when we consider whether or not we are in favour of this Association Agreement. From the outset, it was clear, as I said, for the most important player in the Eastern Partnership, the key question is whether it will receive this perspective, so that, if it can actually meet the necessary criteria to belong to the European Community, it is in our very common interest for the whole Trans-border Transcarpathian Hungarians and Ukraine as a neighbouring country of 45 million. The Member's request to discuss similar issues within the framework of the European agenda is without prejudice to this. But I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that this may be initiated by the political groups in the House Committee, not by the government, so I would suggest that the next time she sees such a case as having an EU relevance that would require the presence of MEPs, she should indicate in the appropriate forum that we will not oppose it in any way, because we are in favour of the broadest possible publicity and debate. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I said, we were guided by Hungarian national interests when this decision was made long before we supported Ukraine's European integration perspective, it was not the Commission or the Council's proposal that brought us to this position. Ukraine is a question of security policy, an economic, a national policy, and, as I said earlier about Moldova and Georgia, it is also a matter of principle. We would like to offer these countries the same opportunities for growth and development that Hungary received after 1989, and the important condition of which, not only is that this course, this course of development, is somehow related to the European Union, if possible, formally within the framework of European integration, if the countries concerned can, once again, fulfil the conditions and support the accession of the population to the Union. Did I also say that, Madam honourable Member? Maybe he wasn't in the room? that if anyone is genuinely committed and practical, Hungary supports all EU integration efforts. So there's no way the government can be accused of that? as the congresswoman said? We'd rather see ourselves outside. How would we support others in encouraging others to join if we ourselves confessed the opposite? As far as the inheritance of St. Stephen is concerned, I would like to say once again, Congresswoman, that Hungary's membership of the European Union is a finished fact, a status quo. I think that a thousand years of dilemma, a thousand years of ambition, came to a standstill by becoming full members of the European Union in 2004. There is nothing to talk about, so it is a decided, definitive question that Hungary is now officially part of the European structures. We are interested in an independent, strong and integrated Ukraine. I agree with the Congresswoman that this is a particularly sensitive situation in Ukraine, not only that there are internal tensions, but also that there is a war. In such a situation, it has an extraordinary symbolic gesture in favour of practical benefits if such a decision is taken as soon as possible. Hungary will be among the first to ratify, and we would like to express the fact that we, especially as a neighbour, as an important EU perspective for Ukraine, as a country affected by the Hungarian national dimension, and, like the rest of the countries, the adoption of the bill is fully supported by the government, for which I respectfully ask the House to support it. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-18-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The general debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain laws in the context of the further development of the national environmental information system will follow until closure. The submission was made in T/1965. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Committee on Sustainable Development as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]]
u2014-11-18-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present to you a package of proposals for amending certain laws in the context of the further development of the national environmental information system. A major step forward for the environmental sector is that it is new, modern, the 21st. The IT system, meeting the challenges of the century, will support everyday professional work from 1 January 2015. With the help of a national environmental information system operated by the Ministry of Agriculture, the environmental sector monitors the state and use of the environment, collects, processes and records data on use and load. [[14.00]] Does the system provide for users? Does that include a wide range of publicity? data and information on the narrower and wider environment. The current system has been in place for more than ten years. Modular structure, which means different environmental fields? Nature conservation, waste management, air cleanliness protection, groundwater and surface water protection, data? they are placed in specialist databases with relative autonomy. Are the specific systems interrelated with each other? within certain limits - they form an interoperable unit. The national environmental information system is in fact the sum of these environmental specialist systems. It is important to point out that, at present, data entered in the database for each area of expertise received in the performance of the reporting obligations laid down in the relevant legislation can be submitted on a paper basis by the obligors. This represents tens of thousands of data per year in terms of the totality of each area of expertise. In informatics, more than ten years is a long time. Is this the then advanced technology? for example, the possibility of using the barcode? is currently no longer up-to-date for each reporting. In recent years, the IT system has been less able to keep up with the dynamically changing legislative environment, technical IT development, and the challenges of providing cheap public service and creating a fast, customer-friendly public administration. The national environmental information system will be renewed in the implementation of an application awarded about HUF 2 billion under the Environment and Energy Operational Programme. In order to achieve this development, it is essential to amend the relevant legislation on the operation of the system and the provision of data in such a way as to ensure the functioning of the new IT system from a legal point of view. From 1 January 2015, both the IT system and the mode of environmental reporting will be fully reborn. With the adoption of this bill, the provision of information to environmental users is made on an electronic basis, i.e. replacing the current, predominantly paper-based reporting with the customer-gate reporting system. Legislation therefore sets as its main rule electronic reporting obligations. In exceptional cases, only paper-based reporting remains in the case of explicit legal provision. As a result of the system development, the public internet interface of the IT system is created to inform the public. With regard to environmental information appearing on the website, it is necessary to declare that they are data of public interest to be published, so that the public does not have to apply for their expenditure individually, but becomes available to everyone free of charge and free of charge. The bill provides for a stronger IT link between the individual specialised systems. In the application of each specialized data, the entry will also appear automatically in the other specialized system, where necessary, avoiding multiple data reporting for databases. As a result of this change, the IT system will work more effectively and openly with other systems, both within and outside the sector, and with environmental information databases. The development of the system will make the release of environmental identification data faster than today: the Authority will have to issue the necessary identifiers for the initiation of the procedure and for the provision of data within three days. At present, the vast majority of data transmissions come to the authorities on paper. The technical conditions for electronic reporting have so far been limited. In view of the tens of thousands of data transmissions on an annual basis, data collection, processing, comparison, professional control and validity have been a manual task for environmental authorities requiring significant working hours. In summary, the main objective of the transformation of the national environmental information system is therefore to eliminate the current, predominantly paper-based data transmissions and to be performed electronically by the debtors in the future. At the same time, the public interface of the system will be renewed and the new system will be more accessible and accessible to other IT systems. In the future, it will also be possible to evaluate the use of the environment in a more complex way. At some points, the bill also includes amendments which are not directly related to the development of the IT system, but which should be included in this proposal. For example, the legal institution of the so-called professional consultation with the environmental authority and the clarification of the provisions of the power to establish certain sectoral legislation related to government restructuring should be mentioned here. In addition to the above, the 12th year CLXXXV on waste. The draft repeals the following sentence of Act No. In Hungary, is there a number of power plants in which? in accordance with EU conditions and practice? They burn hazardous and non-dangerous waste together. The co-incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste in a controlled incineration plant for decades can only be carried out under a permit, not prohibited by the law of the European Union. This means that the incineration of waste must be carried out not only in accordance with the rules on waste management, but also in accordance with the rules on air safety. Both the Waste Framework Directive and the Law require hazardous waste to be mixed, mixed and then burned together with other waste only in the possession of a permit. This option is provided for by the above amendment of the legislation. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption and entry into force of the legislative amendments necessary for the further development of the national environmental information system by their contributions, professional proposals and votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-18-80	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches from its representatives, first from the speaker group, but from among the speakers announced, I see only Mr Sallai R. Benedek in the Chamber. Accordingly, I give the floor to him.
u2014-11-18-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for the introduction of Secretary of State. With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State's apologies; you will understand that as a opposition politician, it is not my job to say what is good about it, so I would focus more on what is problematic about us. Overall, the need for access to environmental information and the extension of its possibilities are a welcome direction, so once again it is a piece of legislation with which the May Other can agree on the objectives of Politics, but, in terms of its instruments, it disputes the effectiveness of its implementation in some ways. He said, Mr Secretary, that this is a new information system, but it should be added that this is not so new, because after that he added that he has a past ten years and ten years is a long time, and it is not so easy to keep up with IT needs in ten years. [[14.10]] Well, would I like to tell you? just so it doesn't always seem like we're just hitting the Fidest? that the test version of the national environmental information system was published in 2009, the system was made from HUF 1 billion of KEOP, and a number of IT errors occurred at the start of this development in 2009. So the tender system at the time was closed, but the system was largely out of order and a fraction of information was available. Unfortunately, these errors have not been corrected from 2009 onwards and have remained in many respects. With the aim of providing an IT solution in which environmental users and interested parties can have access to relevant environmental information, we agree, of course, because this is one of the fundamental infrastructure conditions for enforcing the fundamental right to a healthy environment, so we believe it fully follows from the Constitution, the existing legislation and international obligations. This information system, however, in its present form, do we obviously know? partially, isn't that what the author is responding to? , does not meet the basic requirements and uses, and with the current amendment of the law, the government would like to get closer to this, but we believe that it is legitimate to raise more concerns and reservations in this regard. The supervisory decisions will not be placed on the public side of the system, which would greatly help the transparency of supervisory work and legal certainty. The data of ad hoc official measurements will not be available, business interests will regularly prevent the right to data disclosure, and indications of protected areas are possible, the availability of water data is incomplete, and the continuous transformation of the official system is questionable because of the continuity of the data series and the comparability of data. So at first glance, the system won't be good for what it was created for? to serve as a reliable, easily searchable, wide-ranging database. I ask the Secretary of State, and will it be possible to discuss this at the meeting of the designated committee, that the environmental information that comes from public sources is not available at the moment? And by the way, you can't get any right to do it on trial or even on trial? Let's get to know him. Don't tell the LMP, please, that access to environmental information is at the heart of the government, after we have to enforce these expectations in court in each case, whether it's Paks or any development, so we regularly bring the government and its authorities to court in order to obtain information. It is noted that there are decades of research obligations for national parks on monitoring systems, on various changes in living life, on population dynamics, which are all public research, but also on the basis of bilateral civil rights contracts, these research materials cannot currently be accessed in any form. In the same way, it can be said that even during the Antall government, the research applications for local protected natural areas announced by the then Deputy State Secretary for Nature Conservation, Dr. János Tardy, were not available, even though they all ran into the then Deputy State Secretary after the tender system for 12 years. To date, we do not have access to these, and civil society organisations cannot obtain multiple letters. A very, very interesting question is how in the environmental information system there is a demand that is usually related to land use. Land use and management of nature conservation issues are often very much linked to changes in the cultivation of agricultural land and its regulation. At the moment, individuals, as well as many legal entities, usually find out with a lot of money and very, very complicated research on each area what condition it should be in. It is very difficult to know the branch of cultivation, since there are fields that have been cultivated for a hundred years or not, but there are also some that have been cultivated as grass for a hundred years, but which, for 10-15 years, are not rare in proportion to lawns. At the moment, this information system does not intend to address in any way how to access data on land that is important for natural values. It is very, very important to look at the abundance of access to information in terms of legislation, i.e. what data this will cover, what reimbursement and how it will be possible. Because everything the information system creates, in many cases, can be accessed at the moment with significant costs, or it cannot be accessed. Are you therefore very, very concerned that the information to which the authorities relate any perceived business secret or anything else? Does the LMP faction know this well from everyday practice in Paks, where we need to obtain practically every environmental test and everything else by lawsuit? , how your availability will be ensured. So it is possible to agree with the expansion of the system and the objectives, but the practical implementation, as I said, raises a lot of questions. But I will tell you the questions, because obviously we also have the concern that in 2009 something was made out of HUF 1 billion, which is roughly inoperable, and now it is said that another HUF 2 billion will be upgraded from EU funds. So I do not know what capacity Hungarian IT companies work with, but from HUF 3 billion, I think we can agree that there could be a functioning system and that it could be something that, because of the use of so much public money, is clearly able to fully serve the renewal of the information system. According to a news report a few days ago, we are on the verge of further IT development, which is also HUF 2 billion. I would like to add that this HUF 2 billion is not included in the 3 billion that has been announced so far, because in 2013 the MTI reported on a 2 billion, and the Secretary of State knows that this was two billion, and this government has already developed such a system, but, in any case, according to the MTI news, it is now starting again, which was mentioned. In the latter context, will it be introduced that only the infamous form filling software among tax returnees is infamous? I don't know where you got that nice shorthand name, this is the name of the General Forming Framework Programme. It will be possible to submit data through the customer gate, which will probably create one of Europe's most complex and labour-intensive data input systems in Hungary. Moreover, this government is doubling the administrative burden on environmental users in some respects, but I am asking again for the interpretation of the Secretary of State, because the legislation shows that there will be a number of environmental data that will have to be submitted to the authorities and uploaded to the IT system on paper. That's strange, because your government recently said another sound, which I liked very much: it was a reduction in bureaucracy, which is consistent with the government's supposed goals. After all, in Fidesz's last public election programme, which can be achieved at all, I think it is no longer one year or four years old, Fidesz wrote: the government of national affairs will reduce administrative costs and entrepreneurial risks arising from public activities. It launches a programme to reduce economic bureaucracy and administration because it is necessary to reduce the reporting obligations of businesses, to eliminate the practice of asking entrepreneurs to provide information in the public administration over and over again by the public institution. If I understand the legislation correctly, this is what it does, as it will request a number of environmental information from customers, oblige them to provide information, who will otherwise have to do the reporting in writing, and in a number of other cases it may be possible for the Authority to do so again and again. In the event that, say, any environmental impact assessment or impact assessment is carried out in a protected area or Natura 2000 area, the data provider may have to provide the same information in the course of the various developments at both ends. So, overall, the biggest problem of the national environmental information system is obviously that it will contain an extremely limited proportion of publicly available environmental data, which is extremely ineffective compared to the resources invested in it. I understand the criticism that these issues should be discussed in the detailed debate as to why the various sections of the legislation do not serve efficiency, but we must express our concern in the general debate about the fact that from this amount of money, from 1 billion in 2009 and from 2 billion in 2013? Now we don't know if it's two billion more or one of those? a system that makes this information truly available. Overall, would I also like to say that earlier? You're saying I've stopped being a civilian because I was a civilian before? In order to ensure access to environmental information, the Aarhus Convention has ordered the Hungarian governments in several cases to fulfil their obligations in relation to this framework agreement and has always condemned the Hungarian Government. And the question is that with all the required information from the Aarhus Convention, which gives citizens not only the right they have to use the environmental elements you speak of, but also a number of more environmental, social and sustainability aspects, what relevance they will have in relation to this system. [[14.20]] So, according to the bill, the national environmental information system will regulate the range of data to be published in the government decree? So right now, we don't even know what these data are going to be, and then we're going to have a later regulation? While it is environmental information that, apart from one or two exceptions, should be made public by default, we are now spending another 2 billion. The gravity of the problem is not only indicated by the fact that the Orbán government, which took over power in 2010, identified compliance with and observance of the provisions of the Aarhus Convention on Environmental Information as one of the most urgent tasks and expectations of civil society organisations, for which nothing has happened since then, but also by the fact that there has been infringement proceedings against Hungary due to the proper transposition of Council Directive 85/337/EEC on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. The practice well indicates that when the trees of Kossuth Square were exterminated last year, the public groups concerned received the relevant administrative decision only weeks after the increase in the legal force of the tree cutting permit and the felling of the trees. Now, if I understand the legislation correctly, there is no intention to put up decisions now, so the decisions of the authorities which the Green Authority has laid down in the provision will not be known from this. In addition, a multitude of cases in recent years have demonstrated from the planned expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, where even Members of Parliament have not had access to the environmental impact assessments which the government considers to be existing, to the ski resort for Normafa, that it is not possible to have access to the basic environmental information necessary to take responsible citizen and political decisions. In order for this situation to change, it would not require newer billion-dollar IT developments, but rather that the state and its authorities and institutions do not hide the environmental data and information they have, but store them on public platforms, or on government websites, and at least share it with those to whom this information belongs, i.e. citizens, civil society organisations and actors in local and national political life. As I said in my introduction, we agree with the direction of legislation, and we have efficiency considerations regarding its implementation, because we believe that the legislation currently in force would also have provided the opportunities for Hungarian citizens and civil society organisations to have access to environmental information, but, as we know, the death of the legislation is that it is not applied, and at the moment, the rules on data disclosures were very often on the government's table as a stepchild. Therefore, we will certainly submit amendments to the draft legislation, in the detailed debate, and hopefully we will exchange ideas on this at committee meetings, and then our group will decide in the decision to support the legislation on how we stand. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-18-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try to be brief and to sum up my views on the national environmental information system and this draft legislation, as well as on the Jobbik fraction. Basically, any legislative amendments that make this system simpler, more transparent, will be supported and supported, as the aim is to ensure that there is indeed uniform and transparent information on environmental users available to any citizen that he can access or download from the Internet, wherever necessary. Before I became a Member of Parliament, I worked in the entrepreneurship sector as an environmental trustee for a number of dozen companies, and I had everyday experience in filling in various data reports, whether in relation to underground water, waste, air or any other regular or ad hoc data that environmental companies were obliged to provide to the environmental authority. I saw that, on the one hand, there were attempts to electronicize this, which were either better or less successful, and that there was, by the way, quite well done. But then, at first, did this only mean that an electronic filling program was created for the data provided, not linked to the possibility of being submitted via the Internet via an electronic interface? Is this obviously the next step? but only the programs completed in the electronic filling programme had to be printed and signed and submitted to the authority by hand. There were a number of parallel data reports that the same environmental user was obliged to provide in the various data reports submitted to the same authority, the same information being given over and over again, since the environmental authority was engaged in a separate department, such as FAVI and a separate department with waste reporting, and they often did not meet, so it was not possible to compare whether there were different or identical information in the two, or whether there was a failure to come out of the system. Or, let's say, the waste data submitted by different companies, which meant, let's say, in the waste management companies, how much and what quality and quantity of waste has been taken over from suppliers and waste producers in a given year, these data have not even met each other, and this is at this age, the 21st century. It is extremely simple to do in the first century. We hope that we will take a big step forward in this direction in order to filter out non-fairly working businesses who are not doing their business compared to what they have in their waste management permit, or perhaps without a permit. Is this the other part of what we wanted to find out, or do we want to know, a particular enterprise? Who, say, works for some kind of investment, and I do, like, tear up a building, and we see physically how he carries the asbestos slate, the roof? is authorised, say, to carry hazardous waste or to carry out this activity at any time through the Internet, through a web interface, and is indeed up-to-date and provide information that reflects the situation at that time. So, for the benefit of the entrepreneurial sphere and citizens, this is certainly very important for civil society, because they are the ones who extract information from these systems and are curious about the burden of the individual environmental elements, who are the most polluting and what pollutants the environmental element is burdened with, and on the other hand whether certain enterprises are authorised to use the environment that they are physically doing. Therefore, transparency would be very important, because most of the time, it was really possible to see a huge amount of data coming in to the environmental authority, which they were almost physically unable to process. Several times, a notification and a declaration was processed about half a year after the reporting was made; it was clear that this had the consequence that it could not be known, that it was not possible to plan for the next period either for the undertakings or for the licensing authorities. To sum up, improving access to environmental information and making it more and more electronic is important and we must increasingly eliminate the parallels that currently exist and to comply with the various international and domestic laws. In any case, we will support this, whatever environmental data or environmental burden we are talking about, because in the long term this will also contribute to creating statistics in a given area, as these data will help us to tell how we can reduce, say, air pollution or how we can reduce the load on groundwater in the long term. To do so today, the XXI. Perhaps the biggest treasure in the century is the database, the data is always the most valuable thing, and it is obvious that we need to know how to use this information. All in all, I can therefore say that we can support the legislation and support any legislation that aims at developing this system. By the way, we hope that this will also be the result of the fact that the national environmental information system will be more efficient and useful. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-18-84	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the lead speakerial round. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, asked for a two-minute speech. Here. [[14.30]]
u2014-11-18-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to add one thought to what has already been said and ask the Secretary of State for his assistance in this matter. This is usually due to an approach to environmental use and the use of natural resources. What's that? I want to tell you? that even forest plans are not publicly available under current legislation, environmental forest planning and plant plans are not easily accessible. This is typically the case of an example of authorities sitting on information that could be needed by a landscape or an area or by a municipality. At the moment, customer rights in this area have been significantly reduced in recent years, and we are waiting, among other things, for a change to the forest law so that there can be a change in this. But when I express my needs, what is the system that I would like to see and accept and support, it would certainly be, compared to what has been said earlier, something in which the entire forestry landscape database could be uploaded and organised, since it is all information available to the authorities and not accessible to citizens and civilians. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-18-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] No. In that case, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-18-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking you for your interest and for your comments on excellent and wide-ranging knowledge. We also thank the State Audit Office for welcoming the submission of this bill in the posted information document, as it is in line with two previous requests that the development of systems for assessing the state of groundwater and surface water and for providing more accurate information on waste transport data is needed. The State Audit Office also considers that, in accordance with its proposals, we have presented the bill to be discussed. I would like to confirm that the new national environmental information system is a modular system. Thus, it has separate areas with relatively high autonomy, whether in terms of nature conservation, waste management, air cleanliness and the protection of groundwater and groundwater, but these modular systems are interoperable. Turning to the concerns raised, isn't there a billion? At least not in our government period, and there are no extra two. This is the two billion HUF investment, of which I believe we have created a good system, and I trust that in building this system, they have used up the experience gained from the shortcomings of the systems before 2010. We do not take responsibility for this, for a system prepared in 2009, why it is not working. The entry into force is also important, since some parts of it will enter into force from 15 December, as from this date we will no longer accept data from the middle of the month, or more precisely from the middle of the month, so that there is time to polish this system, so that the system will be operational from 1 January. With regard to public spaces, of course, as usual, a separate decree is drawn up, a ministerial decree, and the current law empowers the competent authorities, the respective ministries, to draw up these regulations. Here we clarify what the scope of public data means, but it will be much more extensive than before. I think it is important to emphasise once again that it will be free. You do not need to request the data separately, the data considered to be public, and it will be free of charge. There are supervisory decisions, so this system is able to identify, either per client or per site, the sources of danger, the precise sources of pollution, and open data will include decisions and customer reports as to how well they have been able to comply with these standards in their annual activities. Should it be sent in on paper? No. The main rule? Does the law say that? that basically electronic will be all data, with some exceptions. But these few exceptions only happen because it would have taken a disproportionate amount of effort to create surfaces for little data. These include, for example, the register of coordination organisations for used motor vehicles. This concerns a narrow circle for which it was not appropriate to establish a system, an electronic system. I assure you, Member, that all of our commitments to the European Union and to the international agreement are in line with this system that we have just established. Of course, all the points raised either by Lajos Kepli or by Mr Sallai R. Benedek are considered even in the detailed debate and in the design of the system. Thank you for your attention and for your support later in the adoption of the bill.
u2014-11-18-88	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, To submit the amendments? Shall I inform you? On Thursday, at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Today, after the agenda, MEP Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, asked for a speech entitled 'Concentrations on the development concept of Lake Balaton'. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Keszthely has recently hosted the. Balaton Design Conference on the future of the Balaton region. He is pleased that something is finally happening around Lake Balaton, as in recent years the region has not received the attention and source insurance it deserved. The ideas and development plans presented by the Balaton Development Council have a funding requirement of approximately HUF 310-320 billion, and it is expected that about 10,000 new jobs could be created if they could be realised. I am pleased to see that Jobbik's programme is being studied diligently as well, if the government has not been there; and my speeches in Parliament about Lake Balaton cannot be heard either, as the presented Balaton development concept contains steps that we have been calling for for for years, and I have said here in Parliament several times, either after the agenda or on some agenda. The development of tourism is one of the most important, but the industry, the economic sector, should not be neglected, which we drew attention to already in 2010 at. In our program. If I look only around my immediate surroundings, I can tell you about a unused industrial park in Balatonözfő, which has not been developed for decades or years. There has been no progress in the past four years, although it has excellent potential to strengthen and introduce a possible green industry or green economy. After all, this is the kind of industrial activity that can be imagined on the shore of Lake Balaton. For the development of tourism in 2014 we will say it. We'll figure it out. Our national programme, entitled "The Health Tourism," also highlighted the development of health tourism, which would be one of the opportunities for Hungary to jump out in the field of job creation and economic recovery. This is particularly true of Lake Balaton, where there is a basis for this form of tourism, only to take advantage of its potential. It seems that this has also been worked out in vain, as this also comes back in the concept of development, and we hope that its implementation will also be effective and will be done at all. In my speech after the agenda in June, I drew attention to the neglect of the background settlements away from Lake Balaton, and I also found that the creators of the concept were able to inseminated, as it also describes the improvement of the conditions for the development of these settlements. It seems that even if they don't show it, they are listening to us and the problems that we have raised. This is usually the way it has worked at the level of communication, at the national level, and we hope that the practice will follow. I have also been saying for years that Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, and that there must be free access to the lake for permanent residents and holiday guests. The concept mentions this as a goal, but it is the Fidesz government, and the governments before it have not been able to solve the existing problem for years. According to a study carried out in 2012, it would take HUF 3.7 billion to ensure that 30 percent of the coastal sections of the settlements are freed, which is required by the Lake Balaton Act in the form of a free coastal promenade. [[14.40]] They haven't been able to comply with this in 14 years since the Balaton Act came into force. The government has spent multiples of this money on unnecessary investments in recent years, such as stadiums, while not getting a penny for this purpose. Also years ago, a plan was made to dismantle illegal Balaton uploads, with the involvement of public workers. It's just another plan, because the government didn't add the necessary financial background. I trust that you will be able to provide support from the above mentioned more than HUF 300 billion planned resources for these very important purposes. It has been said that the region's major problem is that accommodation space is not available in sufficient numbers and quality. In this regard, we can only express our hope that the remedy will be done, but not in one settlement, but in the whole region. In recent cycles, hotel building and reconstruction investments have been made in Balatonfüred only on the north coast, although there are billions of forints worth, while the surrounding settlements are not supported for a few kilometers of connection or bicycle routes, or for a few million forints for the renovation of a public institution. Ladies and gentlemen, As Balaton Coast Representative and Balatonalmádi resident, I will continue to cherish the fate of our beloved lake, and I will continue to pay particular attention to the development of the region, the improvement of the living standards of the people here, and I will monitor the implementation of these plans. I trust that not only do we see words written on paper, but they come to the field of action. I wanted to contribute to this by submitting, in the form of budgetary amendments, the transfer of the aforementioned HUF 3.7 billion to free the coast and the dismantling of illegal uploads. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-18-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Mr LMP:, they are living in Pannonia. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I beg your pardon, I do not wish to waste your time, because they are living in Pannónia, and I borrowed the title from Dr. Zoltán Varga, a professor of science and teaching at the University of Debrecen, who, in his educational work, made the introduction, after joining the European Union, of the part of Hungary's wildlife with which we have enriched the European Union in a unique way. In my previous speech, I have once brought to the attention of my fellow Members the sculptures and works of art that surround the corridor here in Parliament, which present many, many industrialists. Unfortunately, I was of the opinion that there is relatively little talk about Hungarian people and the problems of citizens living in Hungary, but now I would like to mention, present and document a group that is even less mentioned. This is Hungary's very vulnerable wildlife and its natural values, its highly protected and protected species. Unfortunately, there are such sad impressions, and not only in the press, but also as a Member of Parliament, I find that nature protection is becoming increasingly vomitable, but we do not really see that these species enjoy any aspect of legislation in any way. That is why I thought that I would read a short list of Hungary's highly protected animals to my fellow members of the government, who made the vast majority of the decisions on their own, so that they could at least hear about what the government is directly affecting. Striped grasshopper, truncated-eared bat, northern tummy, wolf, lynx, long-winged bat, round-winged rat bat, big rat bat, big-eared bat, Western ground dog, giant early bat, piss bat, pond bat and otter. From the highly protected species of Ingolas, the Duna Ingola and the Tiszai Ingola. Among the highly protected fish species, I would like to mention that they can also hear about such fish: Danube Galoca, Lagoon, Hungarian Bucó, German Bucó, Petényi-marna. From the eyes of highly protected reptiles, it is the angry snake, the pannon lizard, and the parlag viper, which are hardly taken into account in their decisions. The most striking thing in our animal world is obviously the highly protected bird species. Among these are those highly protected, which should at times take into account the ecological needs of the buckshoe, the vulture, the brown kite, the batla, the frog eagle, the badgered hawk, the bull, the gypsy duck, the emperor bird, the stripehead reed, the hornet hawk, the vulture, the Eleonóra hawk, the northern hawk, the wooden hawk, the bastard's stork, the white stork, the whitebacked woodpecker. Other species of birds: the white-armed broth, the white-winged stork, the black stork, the black eagle, the black-winged stool, the Feldegg falcon, the stork, the gulpan, the pearl owl, the gourd, the hawk, the hawk, the hawk, the hawk, the hawk, the little owl, the little owl, the little violet, the blue-billed duck, the white-beaked duck, the ginger-eyed hawk, the red-eyed hawk, the red-eyed duck, the red-eyed duck, the red-legged duck, the big-headed, the big-eared, the big-legged, the big-headed, the big-legged, the big-headed, the big-headed, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-ged, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the reded, the big-belled, the reded, the reded, the big-belled, the reded, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the reded, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-eyed, the reded, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the reded, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, the reded, the big-belled, the reded, the big-belled, the big-belled, the big-belled, You have heard the list of highly protected species and vertebrate species of Hungary. In addition to forgetting the multitude of citizens of Hungary in their daily work, in many cases, these are the species and associated communities that are more often forgotten in the legislative process, even though their ecological needs and living spaces are fundamentally affected by decision making. I wanted them to at least hear about it. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-18-92	Thank you very much for the valuable science science lesson, and it has increased our knowledge. And now he has applied for a post-scheduled speech and I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Magyar, MEP Jobbik:, the losers of the government's unpredictable tax and budgetary policy with the title II. Congressman, here you go.
u2014-11-18-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken about the losers of tax policy in the context of the same post- Agenda yesterday. Although the debate on the budget is not officially due until tomorrow, because the government does not like criticism, it has provided a time frame for the debate, which has led us to argue very little in favour of our own amendments, for example, with a ten-minute timeframe for myself, so I felt it necessary to extend this opportunity by speaking after such an agenda. I would like to mention, today, the amendments that concern the land, the Hungarian agricultural land, the Hungarian countryside, and which mainly feed on your earlier promises, since we should not forget that there were still very strong promises in opposition on these matters, and not so long ago, even before this year's elections, they often made serious promises on paper. We have already talked a lot about the fact that the national rural strategy, which was not put before the House in 2010, but which was put before us as reading, contains so much important fundamental truth and disclosure, which, I believe, would have made this strategy a consensus law in the entire Hungarian Parliament. However, they withdrew from the implementation of the national rural strategy and, according to a completely different logic, went in a completely different direction. When we talk about your rural policy, we must always say this, because it is important that the voters, your voters, know that the promises they have made earlier are not in a thank-you relationship with reality. In this year's budget debate, which is the 2015 budget debate, I have tried to bring you back to the logic of the rural strategy with quite a lot of amendments, and I have tried to collect on you your earlier promises. I would now like to highlight a few specific points. The problem of undivided common land has practically been depressing Hungary and depressing decision-makers since the period lied to the change of regime. [[14.50]] After all, he has put a problem to the level of the countryside, the smallest people, to the level of landowners, which they themselves could not or could hardly handle. This is for us decision-makers to solve this problem for good. There have been many legislative attempts to do this, but no real solution has been found, no previous government has accepted. We believe that it would be an important step forward if the current cabinet provided sufficient financial resources for the size of these areas, so I took the liberty of increasing significantly the amount allocated. I think it would be worth considering and finally ending this problem, which, by the way, makes a lot of small and medium-sized farmers miserable their daily lives, causing a lot of landowners to worry about. That is why I would like to put this amendment to your attention. I also have to mention another one, which is also an old omission, and this is the issue of pocket contracts. You promised, Prime Minister, that if they came to government, they would solve this issue in one blow. Well, it's been a few years. In comparison to this, we met with Btk's tightening, there was an inter-wallet task force in which I was invited to work, and thank you for this, although, in the end, there was little practical, tangible result of the story. They have achieved that the legalisation of these land, which is contaminated by a pocket contract, is currently typically Austrian, but we call it foreign owners, has been started in few cases. You're trying to make this look like a huge success. However, I would like to draw attention here, among the walls of this House, to the fact that this is not a success, at the most, to sweeping the problem under the carpet and iceing the problem. I am a member of Győr-Moson-Sopron County, but I have a fellow Member from Vas County, and I could mention any county in Transdanubia. I can list to you dozens of villages where up to 80 percent of the surrounding land is either Austrian or foreign owners or farmers who have not yet registered ownership rights, but who are in practice working and making complete settlements impossible from progress; from the fact that an existing Hungarian farmer can even bring together a viable estate size, or even from the fact that a young beginner can even start on this path. I have now been able to draw attention to these two amendments. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-18-94	Thank you too, Congressman. He has applied for a post-meeting speech, with the title of honourable Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, Member of Parliament, Jobbik: in the margins of independence. Here you go.
u2014-11-18-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for an opportunity to speak today to commemorate the March of Independence in Warsaw on 11 November a week ago. This is because a rather distorted picture can be given to those who use the Internet to get information about the matter. Why is it important to talk about this in the Hungarian Parliament? ? The rightful question may come up. Perhaps because during the thousands of years of history of Hungary and Poland, how should I put it, there was a great deal of Hungarian blood for Polish independence, just as there was a lot of Polish blood for Hungarian independence. Therefore, Hungary has never been and can never be indifferent to Poland. The March of 11 November was once again a great experience, and it could have been an uplifting moment if the Polish police had not tried to destroy it. It is also a respect for all organizers and all Polish patriots who have provided the parade and subsequent speeches in a rather professional manner, as compared to the circumstances. But let's ask what the Polish National Independence Parade says, what do the hundreds of thousands of people who go out to the streets of Warsaw every year on November 11th? They are primarily sending a message to Europe, the Europe for which, how shall I say, the ideas of today's European Union would not have been fought for a minute by any Pole or any Hungarian if they had known what they were trying to force on our countries and nations today. Polish honest, nation-thinking people do not ask for a European Union that sees the future in a man with a beard dressed as a woman. They do not ask for a European Union that questions everything that is valuable in Hungary and Poland, which is a Bagatellizing everything that is Christian, which is trying to force the most infesting of liberalism on our societies and nations. Neither Poland nor Hungary, I think it can't be the East, but let's also say it. He can't be a servant of the West. That's why it's very important and I'm envious of the crowds on the street. At the same time, respect for the exception, what does the bulk of mainstream Polish press organisations say, and what do Hungarian journalists write about the events on 11 November? On the one hand, they base the numbers and say, without exception, that neo-Nazi mobs and neo-Nazi scum have clashed with the police on the streets of Warsaw. Well, then, here and now, let me draw the attention of every journalist who thinks he's good and objective to the fact that they weren't there. This is the second time I've been to this event. And what did I see? I didn't see any fascists, I didn't see any Nazis, I didn't see any rabble men or people dressed like that. On the other hand, I've seen the crowds of babies with strollers, I've seen families, I've seen very organized cheerleaders, I've seen old ladies. I have seen honest Polish patriots, honest Catholic, Christian people who are proud of their identity, proud of their faith, proud of their history, and who draw attention to the fact that the European Union, which speaks on its way and route, both in Hungarian internal politics and in Polish internal politics, wants to force a world, a daily life from which they do not ask, otherwise very rightly. I think, after a week, that we have to look at who's there, what kind of speeches are being held, and what values are being gathered year after year. And then, I think I can say not only on my own behalf, but also on behalf of many of us, however the composition of my seism, whatever Polish politics may be, it is quite clear to me that hundreds of thousands or hundreds, I do not know how many tens of thousands of people are on the streets every year, they are Poland's living conscience, for me they are Poland's future, and I think for many of us they are Poland themselves. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-18-96	Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the Parliament meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'll close the meeting with this. I wish you all a good day. Goodbye. [[Meeting ended at 2:58 p.m.]]
