u2014-07-04-0	Dear House, This is the opening of the Parliament's summer special session. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Dear Parliament, On this day's day, Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, on behalf of the LMP, applied for a speech before the agenda: "Hungarian Trap. " Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-07-04-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, some gloat was received by some opposition forces that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his second party remained alone about the nomination of the future President of the European Commission. We think that the nomination of Jean-Claude Juncker is bad news for Hungary, and at least such bad news is why and the way the Hungarian Prime Minister voted against in Brussels. First of all, on the European stage, we think it is not appropriate to lie. The Hungarian Prime Minister said that he did not accept the identity of the former Head of Government in Luxembourg because he promised it to his voters. Well, the fact is that, two days before the elections to the European Parliament, Viktor Orbán said that he would stand in the way of the former head of government in Luxembourg, compared to this, there is the Fidesz announcement on 8 March, according to which the MEPs of Fidesz will support Jean-Claude Juncker in the campaign as a regular party of the People's Party. In Hungarian, the Hungarian Prime Minister did not tell the truth when he argued. The Hungarian Prime Minister also raised three main objections, none of which are true. One of the objections is that the powers of the European Parliament, which is at least the body directly elected by European citizens, will be increased to the detriment of the European Council, the prime ministers. The fact is that, if we criticise and have reason to criticise the functioning of the European Union, that it is ineffective, one of the reasons is that European bureaucracy is not transparent and can be checked poorly for European citizens. There was a nomination process within the European People's Party, Fidesz was less combative then than it was after. Therefore, if the Hungarian Prime Minister had had an institutional objection, it would have been a battle I would have liked to have fought within their own party family! In addition, Viktor Orbán also had a problem with the fact that the European People's Party has appointed Viviane Reding's partner to lead the European Commission, although Viviane Reding has done nothing but criticized Viktor Orbán's authoritarian aspirations in recent years. It is also false that Juncker is a fan of federal Europe, while the Hungarian government is in favour of the independence of nation states. The fact is that Juncker and Orbán's fellow parties, the European People's Party, are all advocates of greater integration when it comes to the free movement of capital, when it comes to the free movement of agricultural land, they are in favour of a closer Europe; at the moment when it comes to job creation or environmental standards, the leaders of the European People's Party are always in favour of sovereignty. At the same time, the Hungarian Prime Minister did not mention what is the real problem with Hungary's nomination of Jean-Claude Juncker. First of all, let us be clear that last year the Luxembourg Prime Minister failed in his own country for nothing other than that he was involved in a corruption and wiretapping scandal. Jean-Claude Juncker was practically the prime minister of Europe's number one tax haven for a decade and a half. In addition, Luxembourg is also the transfer pricing centre of multinational large companies. It is also worth seeing what this means for Hungary. Over the last 25 years, an amount equivalent to 2.5 times the Hungarian government debt has flowed from the Hungarian national economy to offshore tomatoes. It is therefore very interesting that Viktor Orbán made an alliance with the British Prime Minister Cameron within the European Council, which was willing to join the European Community in 1973 by requiring, for example, that the Channel Islands are not subject to EU rules, so that they can remain offshore tomatoes. Dear Parliament, The biggest problem, however, is that Jean-Claude Juncker is a fan of the split-up policy, a symbol of the European development that rips the seed countries away from the new accession countries, leading a country with a surplus trade balance of EUR 1500 billion since the introduction of the euro area, which means that more than the GDP of Hungary has been extracted since the regime change. Jean-Claude Juncker is a symbol of the failed eurozone, a symbol of the failed European policy. This is what the Hungarian Prime Minister was supposed to talk about. It is one thing that the false left does not have a problem with an offshore knight, but it seems that Viktor Orbán did not have a problem with Jean-Claude Juncker that he was an offshore knight, but that they dared to judge his authoritarian aspirations. Finally, we have to tell you about this whole story: Viktor Orbán [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He confuses his own authoritarian and power efforts and Lajos Simicska's economic interests with the national interest, which is why Hungary is trapped in Brussels. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Szijjártó. Here you go. [[9.10]]
u2014-07-04-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, The faction leader talks about a trap when a person makes a position that does not meet the position of the majority on the subject. Mr. Fraction Leader, you are an opposition representative in the Hungarian Parliament for more than four years, you have taken a position here on several occasions that has not met, meets with the position of the majority, and we do not think that you have taken a wrong position, nor do we think that you are trapped, but that we simply think that you are using the opportunities given by democracy, voting on a matter in the way that you, your party or the voters who have delegated you, believe you should do. So I think that at the beginning of this, we can agree that the European Union, as one of the most characteristic or significant representatives of democracy, is obviously and rightly opening the way for a majority to have a minority opinion. So I think that if a person takes a different position from a majority, it cannot be called a trap, it is the result of a normal democratic process. Dear Chief of Staff, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that both the Hungarian Government and the Prime Minister himself and the governing parties have taken a consistent position on the nomination of the President of the European Commission all along, and we have made it clear that the High Candidate institution is wrong in our view because it is disrupting the institutional balance between the European institutions; we have also made this position clear throughout the European People's Party. And I think it's natural that if a decision is made within a party family, everyone in the campaign period will work to achieve success in line with the decision adopted by the majority, as it was then born. However, we fully agree, Mr Group Leader, that the European Union may face unprecedented challenges; this is true in both economic, commercial and demographic terms, and Europe is losing its competitiveness in a dangerous and extremely rapid way. It is also clear that a new strategy must therefore be found, and it is clear that Europe must be fully renewed in order to overcome these challenges effectively. Therefore, Mr Group Leader, we may even agree that many old bad practices should be stopped by the European Union and certain European institutional leaders in order to enable Europe to become stronger in the future. And one of these old bad practices or bad practices that has been left here for a long time is the practice of stealth treaty amendments, which was actually understandable in the nomination of the President of the European Commission, so we can talk not only about a personal issue, but also about a matter of principle. The Hungarian Prime Minister has made it clear that the Hungarian Government does not accept the practice that has certainly been in Brussels over the last few years, and you have also been able to observe it, according to which the nation states are being challenged with rights that clearly belong to the nation states, and we do not accept that EU institutions are trying to expand beyond their powers under the treaties. This approach has caused us Hungarians and Hungary to suffer a lot in recent years. You also remember the struggles that we fought for, for example, bankers, multi-taxes, the protection of the Hungarian land or the reduction of the rent. During these conflicts or fights, we finally won, and because we stood firm in our position, we did not sneak, we did not try to remain secret, but we did openly and fairly stand in favour of the position that the Hungarian people entrusted us to represent. This shows, therefore, that we can be strong in Europe if we are consistently in favour of our position to the end, whether it be institutional issues, whether it is the nomination of the President of the European Commission or whether it is the reduction of the rent. Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, The clear duty and responsibility of Hungary's government at all times to stand up for the interests of the Hungarian nation is always the same in Brussels, and will continue to be the case when it comes to strengthening Europe, regaining Europe's competitiveness or even respecting the constitutional identity of the Member States. Finally, Mr Group leader, once again, the election of the President of the European Commission was not a personal issue. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and since the former Luxembourg Prime Minister is a rational, calm, reasonable person, we do not see that cooperation is any obstacle to reasonable cooperation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-4	It is next, on behalf of the KDNP, on behalf of Mr Mátyás Firtl, on the 25th anniversary of the pan-European picnic and border break. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-5	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, Twenty-five years ago, on 19 August 1989, a pan-European picnic took place near Sopron, which was held in the 20th century. It became one of the outstanding events of Hungarian history at the end of the century. The border break is part of the fall of the Berlin Wall and the history of European reunification; as Chancellor Kohl said, this is where the first brick was knocked out of the Berlin Wall. The town of Sopron turned the venue of the event into a memorial park worthy of the 20th anniversary. Sopronpuszta has now become a pilgrim's place, where, perhaps with various intentions, but with a will, the political leadership of his time and the newly organized opposition parties, the civilians, but even the members of the border guards, helped the fate of those who fled to freedom, those who at that time had the only solution of their lives, and the question of their life was getting through the gate. [[9.20]] They knew the shocking images, the East German women, men, fathers, and mothers hugging their children on their arms, as soon as they overcame all the fears of freedom, they broke through the gate separating the two world systems. As one of the organizers put it, this is the first sentence of the coming European history. Dear House, There was a constellation of circumstances, intentions and opportunities in August 89 that a community event proclaiming the breakdown of the Iron Curtain, the common idea of Europe without borders, the pan-European picnic, could become an act of fulfillment of freedom. The action of the then opposition parties, the young people of Debrecen and Sopron, by breaking the borders of hundreds of GDR citizens in the 20th century. It became one of the most important events in European history at the end of the century. Many of his organizers are still among us today, and we still have to thank them today for their determination, their courage and their stand for freedom. In addition to the emancipation of the Iron Curtain, the break of the border pointed to the passing of the walls raised by dictatorships restricting people's freedom and fundamental rights, the passing of closed borders, the post-Stalinian era; the people's desire for freedom was an elemental manifestation of the tactical steps of major politics, sometimes in the line of coercion and in the increasingly crackling, unsustainable system. The limit opened only for a few hours after the event was closed again, but the opportunity to be freed from the inhumane system of communism forced upon us for decades, the experience of the enforceability of freedoms, gained irreversibility, and continued to feed on the force of the fulfilled freedom experience. That is why we can say that the historical significance of the event is equal to '56. Pan-European picnics and border break have accelerated subsequent processes. The GDRs soon opened their borders - because they did not open at the same time, my fellow Members - and all of this led to German reunification, the unification of Europe and the permanent disappearance of borders. Sopron, the most loyal city became a city of freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, History is written by the courageous steps of some people, said Angela Merkel in her 20th anniversary speech on the spot. This year's 25th anniversary should strengthen us Hungarians in all our courageous steps to strengthen our country and nation, which will further strengthen our strength and rise. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust you will honor Sopron, the most loyal city and the city of freedom by attending the 25-year anniversary. And, Honourable House, I also trust that the government itself will be represented on a high level on the 25th anniversary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-6	Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Szijjártó.
u2014-07-04-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, The 25th anniversary of the fall of the Iron Curtain gives us a good opportunity to remember the importance of freedom-loving Hungarian and Central European people in the history of modern Europe. After all, the long freedom struggles of Central European people, including Hungarians, have led to the fall of communist dictatorships, and this has really opened the way for Europe to be reunited. I think that there is a place for straight sentences here, honourable Member, and therefore, here at the meeting of the Hungarian Parliament, we should also point out that if the people of Central Europe and the people of Hungary, including them, had not fought as persistently against communism and the Communists as they did, we would not be able to talk about a reunited Europe today. And especially those generations who left primary school after 1989, for whom freedom, democracy and peace are fundamental values that appear to be natural, but we need to draw the attention of these generations that these values were not always natural, many people had to fight for these values for decades, so that some people could not live with them. Honourable Congressman, Although the Iron Curtain physically separated Hungary and the Hungarians from the free world, from the free Europe, we Hungarians and us Central Europeans were Europeans, however much the Communists tried to do, they could not eliminate the feeling of belonging to the great European family, an electric wire would not have been enough for all of this. Honourable Congressman, We Hungarians have indeed taken the lead in the fight against Communists - the history of 1956 is known to the whole world - and we have proved that the Hungarian people are a courageous people, who do not tolerate occupation and are brave to act, speaking out against governments that represent invaders and foreign interests. [[Foreman Novak: And they're naming people III/II as Secretary of State.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, After all, the persistent struggle of the Hungarian people in Hungary has led to the fall of the communist dictatorship. The events of 1989 clearly showed that the process is irreversible, and they cannot escape the failure of the system. [[László Tasnádi tries.]]
u2014-07-04-8	Congressman Novak, shut the fuck up and try to control yourself. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-07-04-9	However, 1989 also had another important message, a message of solidarity and cooperation. In 1989, all of Central Europe felt the wind of change, Czechs, Slovaks, Poles, Hungarians and Austrians celebrated common freedom together. Ladies and Gentlemen, There are still serious challenges facing Europe today, even if not such challenges as during the period that Congressman was kind enough to commemorate here in the Hungarian Parliament. There are different challenges now facing the continent and the European Union, economic, competitiveness and demographic challenges, the loss of European position in the world economy and world trade. And Central Europe will have its role here again, honourable Member, as the Central European countries, the Central European peoples, had to take the lead in achieving freedom and unifying Europe, so we must now take the lead in strengthening Europe and regaining its competitiveness. However, Central Europe can be strong if the links between us, the cooperation that connects us, are strong. In the future, we can easily become a growth engine for the European continent, the European Union, and again play a leading role in strengthening Europe. Honourable Congressman, There is no strong Europe without Hungary and a strong Central Europe, just as there would not have been a united Europe without the people of Central Europe who love freedom and fight the Communists. Thank you very much for drawing attention to this in your speech before the agenda, and I can assure you that the Hungarian Government will be represented at a sufficiently high level at the event you referred to. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-10	At the same time, Congressman Gergely Farkas, from Jobbik, asked for a speech before the agenda: " Why can't you see what a problem this is? ' The title is given below. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Today, migration is one of the biggest problems in Hungary, hundreds of thousands of young people and less young people are forced to work abroad, leave their homeland and try to thrive abroad. Every week, alarming statistics, analyses, surveys of the extent of migration appear. [[9.30]] I would just like to quote the data of the Institute of Population Research a few months ago that the share of migration designers in the short term is 27 percent and in the long term it is 28 percent. Let's have a little taste of these alarming data. Of these 18 - to 39 - year - olds, among whom the survey was conducted, 55 percent think about foreign life, thinking about leaving their country. If this statistical information does not seem realistic to anyone, then the symptoms also show that there is a very serious problem. In recent weeks, many articles, articles and articles have addressed the fact that, for example, Lake Balaton is already the experienced host. We know very well that in many places the lack of professionals is also a big problem, and I no longer talk about the lack of doctors, it is clear to all of us. So this is a very big problem. Before I get to the specific issues, I would like to clarify some of the groundwork and ask the government's position in this. One of the most important issues on the subject of emigration is when the government will finally exercise self-criticism that it does have a responsibility to achieve such a level of emigration and the proportion of those who think about emigration. This is very important, because we have heard from you so far that you must understand the words of time. In fact, they also said that young people and less young people leave because of an adventurous desire, which motivates them. On the other hand, I think that the sad reality is that today it is almost the sense of adventure that if someone is trying to thrive as a young person at home, you have created such a situation in Hungary. And I think it is very important to say that self-criticism is not important for Jobbik. We've been over this prestige issue for a long time. The reason I consider this an important, fundamental question is because until you admit that you, too, have a responsibility in this situation, it is in question whether you are going to take the path that could be the solution, which would mean reducing this willingness to bring as many young and less young people home as possible. The other groundwork, which I would like to clarify, is when this issue will finally be dealt with in accordance with its weight. This is, of course, in connection with my first groundwork, but I think it is also important to clarify that. It must be seen that this issue goes far beyond personal problems, the problem of those who were forced to leave Hungary. This is a very important, pressing issue for the future of our nation. It doesn't matter whether the pension system will be sustainable, it doesn't matter how the demographic crisis develops. We know the alarm data very well here, too. It doesn't matter if he has an intellectual in this country, not to mention skilled workers. In this respect, I think it is very important that you address this issue in a manner appropriate to your weight. In almost all legislative proposals, they emphasize the steps they plan to take to bring home our young people who have migrated abroad. I would consider this a very important question, and I regret that this has not happened before. And you almost don't hear about this problem, you see this problem as if it doesn't exist, and only the opposition has a whim. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that we occasionally raise this and perform it in a magnified way. Meanwhile, the alarming statistics confirm our serious problem. I also find it sad that we have started the new cycle with new hopes, we have hoped that you will deal with this problem, but instead we have seen that once again they have dealt with almost exclusively their own problems. It was in your best interest to change the municipal electoral law in Budapest, which was dictated by your interest. But we also saw that the house rules were immediately amended in order to make sure that you had two thirds of them. It's just, let's just say, these young people and less young people weren't bothered. It's very important. For example, it would be important to start the rental program, which is an old point of Jobbik, and many of us have demanded this in Parliament, which could solve the housing problem for these families, these young people, to start their own lives. It is important to increase the funding of higher education, because many people today go abroad because they can study for free there, and because of the scarcity of public places they cannot do so. However, interestingly, even an OECD study has shown that funding higher education is a profitable investment for the State, in particular, supporting the fact that it represents approximately $25,000 in expenditure to the State and, in the form of taxes and contributions, it brings revenue to the State in a multi-annual comparison of $275 thousand. So this is going to pay off a lot. The question is therefore: [[The president's ringing the bell.]] When they will exercise self-criticism, when they will deal with this emigration in line with the weight of the issue, and when concrete action will be taken. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-07-04-12	I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would be sad if the Hungarian Government first heard about this problem from your interpellation, and, of course, what you have brought to this House is a serious problem. But allow me to say a few basic points, so that we can see clearly about migration and emigration. First of all, no one can say how many people have migrated from Hungary in recent years or decades. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] It is important to clarify this, and I will detail it in detail, because KSH sees movements within a year. According to KSH data, the number of migrants within a year has indeed increased from 50,000 to 100,000 between 2010 and 2014. But since October 2013, this number has been stagnating, 1-2-3,000 plus or minus. So in Hungarian, the migration processes within the year have been stopped. Secondly, what is very important about migrants is that it is not primarily about running away from poverty that is a fundamental problem, but that the problem is that the host countries are suffering from a shortage of workers. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And emigration is primarily generated by this, which motivates it. What the government can do about migration processes? Didn't you just mention the lack of expertise that you can't find people at Lake Balaton? Indeed, the duality in Hungary is that there are 400-500 thousand registered job seekers, but there are 60-70-80 thousand vacant posts unfilled every month, which draws attention to serious problems. Among other things, there is no connection between qualifications, adequate qualifications and the situation of registered job seekers. The vast majority of them have low educational qualifications, virtually 8 generals or even less. They have a very substantial impact on the employment policy instrument. I would also like to draw your attention, my fellow Member, to the fact that, for the first time since'92, the number of people employed in Hungary has gone above 4 million in the last six months, and the unemployment rate has fallen below 8 percent on the basis of the latest statistics. It may seem that this does not have much to do with migration, but I think it has significant significance, because if economic, employment policy and social policy processes are launched in Hungary thanks to the current government, which slow down this migration and, where appropriate, reverse it, I think we are on the right track in this respect. So we're dealing with this problem according to its weight. Obviously, the fact that there is no secretary of state within the government that specifically deals with this does not in itself mean that this problem cannot be dealt with by each individual in his own territory with the right weight. Here in the statistics, you referred to the minimum living and the threshold for living. The difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage is indeed significant in Hungary, and this is also a very important element of migration processes. In 2013, there was also a turnaround in this area, with virtually constantly decreasing scissors between the minimum wage and the minimum wage. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] However, we would like to draw attention to the fact that what our predecessors did, by raising the minimum wage, by raising wages in Hungary, by taking out loans, and by not making any meaningful economic activity behind it, is a serious mistake that the current government does not want and will not make. So our goal, our interest, is to increase the minimum wage with the growth of the economy and the recovery of the economy. With the increase of the minimum wage, all other wages are also increasing, but we know the thrust, and the result is that it is worth staying here not only from a professional point of view, but also from a financial point of view. And it's okay for those who are abroad temporarily to gain experience. There is indeed a problem with long - term planning, perhaps lifelong, life abroad. Our job, as well as the current Hungarian government, is to generate social and economic policy processes that stop migration and bring home the young or old people who have previously chosen abroad. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[9.40]]
u2014-07-04-14	József Tobias, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda: "To the margins of the spring session. " Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-15	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Two months ago, when Parliament was founded, Speaker László Kövér promised a more predictable, calmer, more controllative, slower and matured legislation. On behalf of the two-thirds majority in Parliament, the Prime Minister wished to speak to the three-thirds society and to implement his policy throughout the nation. President János Áder, I quote: "In 25 years' time, the members of the National Assembly should not stand in front of the national tribunal, explaining why they could not avail themselves of their freedom in the matter of prosperity. " Freedom is self-determination, the possibility of deciding his own fate. However, the parliamentary operation of the last two months proves that you are the only ones who want to live with self-determination, as a matter of fact, with freedom. But the common good is not intended to be served by any of the laws adopted so far. If you look at the course of the legislation, you do not know what law you have submitted, and you have to ask him for telephone help in almost such a quiz show, so to speak, what it is that could be decided, I must tell you that it is unworthy and goes against all that the above-mentioned public-law dignitaries have formulated within the walls of this House. The Paks loan agreement was adopted without knowing whether there is an impact assessment or not. The court says he can't decide because he's not known for his impact assessment. The Minister of Development, Miklós Seszták, knows exactly how he is, but he refuses to show it to anyone. The Education Act was amended on the grounds of the common good by taking away the autonomy of knowledge. They didn't take away the autonomy of institutions, the autonomy of free thinking. And we have arrived at another gem, the introduction of the advertising tax; I have already mentioned the genius of the Secretary of State's independent movement in the media space. But one thing is clear: you are not motivated by economic interests, but you are passed only on political grounds, and then you realize that you have made a mistake, because you cannot decide who will be the winner, who will be the loser, so you have just tabled another amendment so that small businesses may still lose. Be a loser if you want to express your own thoughts on a particular Internet site or in a world of free trade media. Nota bene, if you dare to criticize even the government, and that is a capital offense, there must be a law to prevent them from speaking. The electoral law has already been discussed in the walls of this House. If it is for the common good in the capital that, three months before the elections, you will only amend a law in your own interests, respecting or observing how the elections in April and May took place, I must say that the question is not how the course of action is set towards the opposition: the question is that it is not for the common good, but only for your own authority. Today in Hungary - finally - everyone pays VAT. Anyone who buys at the store, who buys a product, pays the VAT. However, you have made legislation that there are exceptions, but this is no longer unique, because in the past four years you have done so several times, but it is still outrageous that, while submitting laws to the House for the benefit of the common good, the confidants already appointed in the case of gambling - Andy Vajna and his associates - now do not even have to pay VAT after the concessions won. This is what you have been able to do in the last two months in accordance with the values of public dignity. There's no way to do what you've done for the past four years. The service of the public good is also a responsibility in the opposition, so any question, whether it be the tax of domestic state companies, whether it be the reduction of VAT on food, whether it be about getting to know the Paks loan agreement, is all for the common good. Return to the principles and values of their public dignity. Thank you.
u2014-07-04-16	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that this was also a sort of party presidential speech on behalf of Mr Tobias here in Parliament. And it is really worth comparing what one of the opposition's parties, the MSZP, did during the spring session and what the government was doing. The government dealt with the country's affairs, primarily here in Parliament, while the MSZP dealt with its own party affairs, primarily its personal affairs, which was the news. While the election in April in this spring session or during that time represents a second two-thirds trust for Fidesz-KDNP here in Parliament, the election in May is a defeat for the MSZP from the governing parties, and the election in May is a defeat from its own opposition challengers and opposition parties, while for Fidesz-KDNP, the election in May was a European record in the election results from the government side. As regards the opinion of the MSZP on the issues raised by you, for example in the case of Paks, we have seen a 180-degree turn, since, while earlier, the Paks expansion was supported several times, after which it no longer became a socialist money-paying place, as there are many in your group, who have lived well enough from the Paks orders, and then suddenly the Socialist Party stopped supporting the Paks expansion. Although he himself could not give a precise reason for not supporting it while he had previously been in favour of enlargement. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] To date, the MSZP still owes public opinion an explanation of why the Paks changed their opinion to the contrary. I believe that there is no need to fear the autonomy of education, at least not to fear the Fidesz-KDNP government. Socialists call for unauthorized intervention in autonomy, here again in the case of universities, when the outgoing and prospective president of the Hungarian Rector's Conference, or who is now in office, said that this is a system that really reduces the responsibility of the rectors, that they can focus more on scientific and educational issues, and that we should try this type of chancellor system, and try to see if the universities work better alongside the chancellors. But they don't yell at autonomy intervention. I don't know on what grounds the Socialist Party would do this if the Rectors themselves didn't make such an accusation. In connection with the transformation of the system of public cargo, today's MSZP speech almost repeats those of three and a half years ago. Then they said the same thing to the banker, now they're saying the same thing to the commercial tax. We believe that sectors that generate profits should contribute to the system of public burdens. We started with banks, now it's in 13 European countries, we continued with insurance companies, energy companies, trade chains, and we have just continued with those companies with very high advertising revenue in terms of advertising tax. I think that's fair. With regard to the municipal electoral system, I think that the Socialist Party cannot really use criticism because it has made a much bigger transformation in 1994 under a much tighter deadline. I think if they wanted to practice self-criticism, then maybe they should have spoken out against it. However, if we look at what the legislation on the government side has brought to Hungary, then we can see that the wages of teachers since 2002, with 12 years of debt being paid, are finally rising by more than 30 percent. The wages of those who work in health care as nurses or general practitioners or otherwise have also increased or received contributions to their own costs; the wages of the lowest earning officers have also increased this year. Family-type taxation will also cover contributions from this year onwards. This also has consequences in demographic numbers, as a result of a consistent family policy, the number and proportion of children's commitments increased by 3 percent. The ged extra also came into force from this year and helps those who want to have a child while working, or want to have children after university, at a young age. Employment is also record high, inflation is record low. If you miss the service of the common good and see these numbers, then I think you may be very ashamed on behalf of the former socialist governments, since they have not reached such an extent. I also believe that in social policy, in the service of the common good, Fidesz-KDNP has repeatedly passed the MSZP in relation to pensioners, because there we can remember the taking away of the 13th month pension, and here the rise in the real value of the pension, and besides that, as I said, inflation was also a record low, so that pensioners' expenses were also reduced. [[9.50]] But it has also been reduced to a large extent by the reduction of the rent, which is protected only by Fidesz-KDNP both in Hungary and abroad. And one of the most important issues, and the issue of foreign exchange lending is now on Parliament's table [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] today we decide how much easier it would have been if the MSZP had prevented this problem from happening eight years ago. So much for the service of the common good. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-18	Thank you very much. Antal Rogán, the leader of the Fidesz Group, will be the last among the speeches before the agenda: "About our common affairs. " Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-07-04-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In three, three and a half months, sometime in October, when the President of the Republic will set his date, there will be municipal elections in Hungary. This is the third election in 2014, the third time Hungarian voters can judge the Hungarian political parties and their politicians. Twice this has happened, in April and May, on 6 April and 25 May. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you have received virtually insufficient votes from the electorate in these two elections, and I must say that, looking back now for the last two months or even today's parliamentary speeches, there may be a reason for this. Because it is worth looking at, ladies and gentlemen, what was the reason why the electorate chose the governing parties instead in both elections. Obviously, one of the most important reasons for this was that in the past four years neither, and I think that we will not be afraid of multinationals or banks in the future, and if necessary, we will always be on the side of Hungarian families against multinationals and banks. Ladies and gentlemen, When we are holding a closing day here in Parliament today, I think it is also worth emphasising what are really important topics for voters, in which they expect us to take their side, and we have a strong message for both October and the coming months. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, Parliament is faced with the law in which we bring justice to foreign exchange credentials in the first step after the Curia's decision, and I think we have made it clear in recent days that we are watching and standing next to the Hungarian families every time they try to skin another one of their skins, such as the banks. This is exactly what has happened in recent days, when we have seen Parliament discussing the bill on the resolution and discharge of foreign currency loans, while, fellow Members, some banks want to raise interest in the next three months, i.e. they want to skin another one of the foreign exchange and forint creditors. There is a reason that we tabled this amendment to Parliament - and I ask everyone to vote on it together with the laws running today - which is about banning interest rate increases for banks in the coming months, because the former ones were unfair, and they will also have to be repaid after the appropriate court proceedings. Clearly, we will not allow another skin to be skinned off in the coming months. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is also the other message that has come before Parliament, and it is reflected today, in the first round of the law that will be discussed during the spring session, which was submitted by my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, which involves the continuation of the reduction of the rent. Ladies and gentlemen, We have achieved very serious results here in recent years. In Hungary, there will be further reductions in prices in 2014 and, after all, in September and October. In September, the consumer price of electricity will be reduced and in October, the consumer price of district heating will be reduced. All of them have been decided earlier, and these decisions will be consistently taken. Ladies and gentlemen, In the bill that my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, submitted to the Parliament with the full support of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions, we are once again supporting the Hungarian families, against the interests of both multi- and large companies. Because we are trying to protect consumer rights so that not only through the price, but also through various said-made services, they cannot skin people more and more. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that these are really important public affairs. I'm asking you to stand next to these. Stand by us when we confront the banks for the benefit of families, or when we are fighting for the reduction of the rent, and we are trying to protect it either in the European Union or in various Hungarian judicial forums, or in the formation of legislation. If they do, I think they can send a positive message to voters. But if you continue with the policy of the last few months, which is the same as that of you over the past four years, then I must say, ladies and gentlemen, don't expect a better grade. We're gonna go back to what we started. We will do what we have consistently done in recent years: we will protect and continue to protect foreign exchange credentials and forint credentials from banks, and we will stand by the reduction of the rent, and we will protect and continue to do so. This is our message to the electorate for the municipal elections in October. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-20	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2014-07-04-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, the Fidesz-KDNP government will continue to repair the damage that socialist governments have done between 2002 and 2010. This is how we are with public debt, as the socialists have significantly increased public debt; the Fidesz government has had the opportunity to stop increasing and reducing public debt. This is also the case with the budget deficit, since the Socialists have not once been able to reach the 3 percent deficit level expected by the European Union in eight years; whereas the Fidesz government has been able to get the country out of the excessive deficit procedure and balance the country's budget. But this is also the case with the squandering of state property, because the socialists have come to privatise and sell; while the Fidesz government buys back state property and public service property. And yes, we do, too, with energy prices, because socialist governments have come to increase the price of gas, electricity, ten to fifteen times twice or three times; the Fidesz government has had to reduce them and make the lives of households, people, better. The most important and the most significant issue that weighs on society and the economy as a whole is the question of foreign exchange lenders. The socialists have come to put 800,000 families in a position with irresponsible foreign exchange credit promotion that has made people's lives very difficult; and the Fidesz government has come to stop, fix and fix this social problem, and to bring the country out of foreign exchange debt, to bring the families out of this big problem. Why is it that Parliament has not been formed for two months, but I believe that today one of the most significant decisions of the four-year cycle will be taken by Parliament by starting to settle the fate of foreign exchange lenders and continuing and leading foreign exchange loans out of the Hungarian market at the second stage during the autumn? What makes this possible? It is possible that there is a continuous government, that the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP government has once again received the trust of the voters, and that we come here as a result of a long-prepared series of decisions, that today the Parliament can adopt a law on the settlement of the fate of foreign exchange creditors. Why is it that voters have given a two-thirds majority to the majority of governments that have taken responsibility for resolving this social problem and not the extension of what socialist governments have done? I would just like to mention that, with the government's first measure, it has already limited the sale of foreign exchange-based mortgage loans from 10 July 2010, so that the settlement of this serious problem started in 2010. Further steps are known to everyone: eviction moratorium, preferential conversion of late loans, end-payment, exchange rate barrier, possibility for the National Asset Manager, and, finally, interest rate subsidies for the exchange of foreign currency loans to move to smaller apartments. In total, foreign exchange lenders have already received some HUF 412 billion in support and benefits, with three quarters of which banks have committed themselves. [[10.00]] Finally, the answer to the question has come to an end. The first step of this will be in the form of a law today, based on the Curia's decision as a legal unit. I think that both the government and the Hungarian Parliament are expected to signal and send a message to society that the permanent elimination of the foreign exchange credit problem has begun. We ask everyone in Parliament that today this historic bill [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-07-04-22	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Sándor Szabó, László Kiss with MSZP, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély with MSZP, Lajos Kepli Jobbikos, László György Lukács Jobbikos, Ander Balázs Jobbikos, Bernadett LMP Szél, István Ikotity LMPs, Márta Demeter MSZPs, Loránt Hegedűs Jobbikos and Zsuzsa Szelényi, independent representatives and representatives of Members. Dear Parliament, I declare that on behalf of the Government, Minister Zsolt Semjén is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated an extraordinary meeting to be held today. He indicated in the annex to his letter all the proposals he had initiated to be discussed. You can find this on the website. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. I have tabled my proposal for the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits, and the keynote speakers as chairman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules, which it has clarified at its meeting this morning. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2014-07-04-23	Dear Parliament, The House Committee's proposal to derogate from the House Rules of Procedure: The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 65. On the basis of its powers under §2 (1) of the Act, it makes the following proposals to Parliament. The National Assembly is H/536 on the establishment of an ad hoc committee for the members of the Constitutional Court. When negotiating and deciding on a proposal for a decision, the head of the group should be able to submit an amendment within one hour of the decision to derogate from the rules of the decision; the proposal for a decision will be adopted without debate today.
u2014-07-04-24	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. I declare that the Fidesz faction has initiated the inclusion of this motion in the agenda of today's meeting, but we do not decide on this, as the derogation from the House Rule tabled by the Houses Committee also contains this element. I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has accepted a derogation from the house rules by 170 votes to three against. Dear Parliament, Today, decisions and decisions on personal proposals will be taken as the last among the votes. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/464 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the mandate and powers of the Minister of the Interior. T/467. Following the conclusion of the consolidated debate on the legislative proposal No T/467, the third item on the agenda shall be taken as the third item. The resolution of the consolidated debate of the Bill No 13 will take place before 13 o'clock, in good time if T/464. The general debate of the legislative proposal No 1 will not be concluded until 13:00, and its continuation and conclusion will take place today as the first item on the agenda following the decisions. If it's T/467. The resolution of the consolidated debate of bill No.3 will not take place before 13:00, in good time, at T/464. The conclusion of the general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 is today the first item on the agenda following the decisions taken. Whoever could follow this and agree with it, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. The visible majority accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, As a national of the Government, it was initiated by T/464 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the powers and responsibilities of the Minister of the Interior. There will be no amendments pending the opening of the general debate on the legislative proposal No Parliament will decide on the adoption of the bill. We will decide on this without debate. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on the whole agenda recommendation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please, let's vote by raising our hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear House, The Commission's reports on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer lending contracts to financial institutions and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The submission is T/465. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would remind you that at the meeting on Monday, the Parliament decided to discuss the item by way of house rules. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T465/9. Number T465/10 and the summary report is T465/10. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's taking a break.]] I would very much ask my fellow Members that those who do not wish to hear the debate leave the Chamber as quickly and quietly as possible. I'm very grateful. I give the floor to Péter Csizi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-07-04-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee discussed the bill before us, which is of paramount importance for foreign exchange lending, and presented amendments with 26 votes in favour and five abstentions. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The summarised amendments support and include, on the one hand, Antal Rogán and György Rubovszky's motion to apply the statute of limitations for loan contracts. Therefore, as long as any of the parties has a claim against the other party, the limitation of those claims cannot begin. So the statute of limitations starts with the termination of the contract. The summarised amendment also includes the legislative committee's own proposals for amendment. The bill submitted places a strict time limit on the conduct of litigation proceedings, which would allow all proceedings to start and proceed at the same time. Therefore, in consultation with the National Court Office, further clarifications were needed to ensure the smooth conduct of these matters, which we introduced in the legislative text. Our goal remains to bring the cases to an end by the end of this year. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the point of the summary amendment which seeks to prevent the practice of unilateral interest rate increases, increases in costs or increases in fees following the Curia's decision as a legal unit. If, today, Parliament adopts this law, such dishonesty cannot take place. That is why I am asking my fellow Members, on behalf of the committee, to support the bill and thus to support foreign exchange creditors in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-07-04-26	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to present the minority opinion. I'm asking if anyone wants to live with that. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask if the Secretary of State would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, you have a ten-minute timeframe. [[10.10]]
u2014-07-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor to draw attention to the legal arrangement produced by the bill in which financial institutions, financial institutions that grant foreign exchange loans or conclude other loan contracts have to sue the State when they dispute the contractual clauses, unfair or unilateral amendments to the contract considered unfair by the legislation. In particular, as regards unilateral contractual amendments, the State must defend the presumption that the Curia has stated that unilateral contractual amendments to consumers have been inadmissible and, therefore, the partial nullity of the contract results in these points. Thus, legal representatives acting on behalf of the State may be prepared to deal with lawsuits in which the interests of foreign exchange creditors and other borrowers, i.e. forint-crediters, must be represented by the State before the court. I could also say that these legal representatives are facing a very nice task, because they will protect the public interest against the banks, they will protect the public interest, which is a public interest which is now established here by the Parliament in a law, which, on the basis of the Curia's decision, establishes certain conditions, certain presumptions, which the banks may, of course, overthrow. This is fair and so fair as a rule of law solution, but do not let it out of your sight, let us not be mistaken in this matter, in fact in these cases the defendant, the defendant state, will represent the will of Parliament and the public interest. This, of course, does not affect the courts, the courts have to decide the case themselves in legal reality, and in that it is only an interesting fact, and I must say that it is a special feature of these lawsuits that, as defendant, the Hungarian State will be suing. The amendments tabled clarify the details of this procedure, i.e. the way financial institutions will try to break the presumptions made by Parliament against the State. Therefore, the Parliament should lay down specific procedural rules, procedural deadlines, and these special procedural rules are included in the proposals for amendments to be adopted now. As the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee pointed out, part of the amendments are aimed at preventing banks from enforcing their unilateral treaty amendments which have already been initiated in the light of the bill, since, despite the fact that the banks have published a notice on this matter, if these amendments to the contract cannot take place after the entry into force of the bill, the amendments to the contract will not enter into force and will not be part of the contract. I have to say, first of all, I say to the clients of financial institutions that these announcements on unilateral contractual amendments are paper that can be ripped up on the basis of today's decision. So you can quietly tear up these unilateral announcements, unilateral treaty amendments, because they will not come into force if Parliament adopts the bill today. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-07-04-28	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your speech. I would like to inform you that, at the end of the debate, five minutes are available to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll see if anyone wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Roland, Fidesz Group.
u2014-07-04-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can say without exaggeration that today we can adopt a law of historic importance. Not only because, as the culmination of the rescue measures and laws so far, the Curia has decided that we can provide effective and tangible help to the foreign exchange crooks in distress, but also because we can enforce a law and bring a philosophy to the legal level that is about that no domestic financial institution can afford to behave unfairly with customers, clients, Hungarian people. You can't afford to abuse your information and dominant position and your ability to assert your interests at the expense of customers, and then disperse the responsibility in a hypocritical way to claim that, of course, an amendment to a contract requires everyone's consent. You cannot afford to change the terms unilaterally, raise interest, raise the repayment if the forint is weakened, but forget to reduce it when it gets stronger. This is the form of behaviour, this is the attitude from which, thank you very much, we do not ask. But, honourable Members, this has not always been the case. There were years, decades in Hungary, when we didn't even dare to think that the government, which represents us Hungarian people, could have had any influence on financial institutions. We had a feeling that the financial world, the banks, represented some mystical power independent of the state, a power that the government dared to address at all in the form of a code of ethics which is not binding on anything, in a manner which reminds us of a cautious request. And why? Maybe we all remember that we shouldn't be angry at the money market, that banks shouldn't be mad at us, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot allow financial institutions to scare us, because the money of the people who live here is still lying at the banks, because ideally, the lineup looks like the client will trust the bank with his money, which will use it fairly and in accordance with the rules, spin it, invest it, lend it. We are not arguing about fair profit, we are not discussing it, but we are saying that it is time for our financial institutions, whether they are Hungarian or foreign-owned, to behave fairly with people. Dear House, Let us not forget that the release of foreign currency loans is one of the biggest crimes of the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments. At this time, the Hungarian population's foreign exchange debt increased 140-fold, mortgaged to the homes of half a million Hungarian families, endangering the home, livelihood and safety of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. I would like to remind you that the legislative work on foreign exchange legislaters has not started today, and we have taken a number of measures since the establishment of the second Orbán government. In the framework of the Home Protection Action Programme, more than 500,000 families have received some form of assistance, 170,000 have lived with the possibility of final repayment, more than 165,000 have so far applied to the exchange barrier, nearly 7500 have offered their properties to the National Asset Manager, while 150,000 families are protected by the eviction moratorium. On 5 November 2013, additional measures were adopted with exceptional urgency. The amendment of the law also created the possibility of entering the exchange rate barrier for credit contracts over HUF 20 million and over 90 days late at the time of the payment. In addition, the Parliament extended the period of the eviction moratorium until 30 April, and then, you know, the new Parliament started its work with this. Now, please allow me to remind you of the bill and the amendments to which I am asking for your support. On 27 June 2014, the Government presented to Parliament its first bill to help foreign exchange creditors, entitled The settlement of certain issues related to the Curia's decision on consumer loan agreements in financial institutions. The legislator now enters into these contracts with the authority of the Constitutional Court. The authentic people have long been waiting for the government to resolve the issue, and now it has all its legal bases. [[10.20]] The proposal has three pillars. The first of these is the issue of the exchange rate gap. There is no discretion here, the Curia clearly stated that the condition that the loan is to be calculated at the time of admission at the foreign exchange purchase and at the time of repayment at the foreign exchange selling rate is null and void. This will be replaced by the official exchange rate of the Hungarian National Bank. This is important because it is not the individual who has to sue in this matter, but the state that provides for a conversion obligation. Banks must do so within 90 days of the entry into force of the law. The legality of the conversion will be checked by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank as supervisory authority on its own initiative. The package of legislation to be submitted in the autumn will already include the specific accounting for the exchange rate gap, i.e. how to account for it to consumers. The second pillar of the proposal is the issue of unilateral contractual amendments. Here it is worth recalling that during the economic crisis, banks have unilaterally increased interest, costs and fees. One-sided amendment of a contract is possible in principle, but it has a set of conditions, and the legal unit decision also contains a detailed list of its elements. It should be stated that the amendments to the Treaties are only fair if these conditions are fully met and fulfilled. Contrary to previous practice, banks now bear the burden of proof to demonstrate that the amendments they make comply with these conditions, these principles. With regulation, we can avoid hundreds of thousands of lawsuits falling on the courts. Guidelines will, of course, be the rules of civil procedure, but by setting shorter deadlines and faster procedures in these matters, and it will be possible to discuss only the integrity of the already mentioned clauses. The third pillar of the proposal is the suspension of ongoing procedures, auctions, litigation and enforcement procedures. The reason for this is that no one can be put in a position where, while an accounting dispute is under way, they auction their collateral. And now let us look at the amendments in a few thoughts. According to the motion made by my fellow Members Antal Rogán and György Rubovszky, the Ptk. its rules on limitation in respect of claims arising from consumer loan contracts shall be interpreted as meaning that these claims do not lapse during the contract but that their limitation begins with the termination of the contract. After all, we know that, by default, the limitation period is five years under the Civil Code, but at the same time the amendment overwrites this in the case of loan contracts, i.e. the foreign exchange-credited bill also applies to those foreign exchange-loans who took up foreign currency loans before 2009, but their contract has not expired. For example, a foreign exchange loaner who took out his credit in 2004 can expect a 10-year cut in exchange rates and interest rate increases. This is because we need to prevent those banks, in the case of thousands of foreign exchange lenders, from being compensated by the expiry of their client's contract. According to the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee, the law will apply only to loans taken after 1 May 2004, but not to consumer loans taken before that date. This is because that is when we entered the European Union, so certain EU directives on unfair terms and European judicial decisions will be binding in our legal system from that date. The rest of the motion essentially seeks to prevent foreign exchange credentials who, as a result of the Curia's decision, wish to enforce their right by law from encountering all kinds of bureaucratic and procedural obstacles. This is no way to play with the time of the authentic, for there are many people who are in great trouble. To mention a few: the amendment clarifies that the State is represented in these cases by the Minister for National Development. It does not allow legal institutions such as a cross-border appeal or a cross-border review request, which could be slowing down factors. It sets out special rules for delivery, rationalises the submission of actions, separating the time limits for forint and foreign exchange credit contracts. Some provisions are clear, for example, to legislate the principle that, if the action is not thorough - in English - unfair - the court rejects the action. Finally, the last points 19-21 refer to banks that still believe that they have the right to increase interest unilaterally after the Curia's decision. The amendment states that a notice of interest increases, increases or increases published before 17 June 2014 should be withdrawn, and that if repayment has already been made on this basis, this should be credited to the client. In other words, the banks have to pay back this amount; at least it is not very elegant the day after the Curia's decision, when it said that the banks behaved unfairly, that a financial institution is able to raise interest unilaterally. The proposal is, we hope, the beginning of a new era. Following unfair banks, it is time for honest banks, in which people will not be exposed to financial institutions that abuse their dominant position. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of these aspects, I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-07-04-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz took a small step forward with the bill submitted, and then, before the final vote, with a motion for amendment, backed back from this tiny step. The MSZP supports progress, however small. We support it because it is legitimate that the Curia's decision be rewritten by the Parliament into a law. Right, because the Curia stated that the use of the exchange rate gap was unfair, and the Curia stated that the unilateral interest rate increase and the amendment of the contract were unfair. It is right that the solution will then not be left to tens of thousands of lawsuits, even hundreds of thousands, but to adopt a single law that solves this problem, solves this part of the problem, and not hundreds of thousands, but a few dozen, perhaps a few hundred lawsuits, can solve the problem: the part of the problem that came from the exchange rate gap, the part of the problem that resulted from the unilateral interest rate increase. But that's the small part of the problem. Foreign exchange crooks are in trouble because they've suffered a gigantic exchange rate loss over the last few years. This is the real problem, and the bill does not provide any solution to that. In 2010 - just before the change of government - we had to pay 265 HUF for one euro, and yesterday the same euro was already charged 312 HUF. In April 2010 - before the change of government - one Swiss franc had to pay 185 forints, and the same cost 255 forints yesterday. This is the currency loss that put the vast majority of foreign exchange-credit families in danger or in a hopeless situation, and that is the problem that the government does not want or cannot help. The proposal of the MSZP is clear: Hungary's Government has something to do with the exchange rate, the economic policy applied by the Government of Hungary has a direct influence on the strength of the forint or the weakness of the forint. Over the past four years, you have conducted an economic policy that has not strengthened the forint, but weakened it, and even brutally weakened it. In fact, their attitude has changed, or at least now they admit that they do not have the forint to be strengthened. This is supported by the document that the Hungarian Government has prepared and sent to Brussels, the so-called convergence programme, in which it already expects a HUF 307 exchange rate for the euro. [[10.30]] Even sadder is that your top economic minister stated a few weeks ago that the government had no interest in the exchange rate of the forint. The Hungarian National Bank, led by György Matolcsy, also states that the Hungarian central bank has no exchange rate target. These are the conscious steps that left the forint to its fate in addition to economic policy, and by leaving the forint to its fate, they have caused trouble for families who have previously taken on foreign exchange loans. That's the main problem. For this reason, the MSZP has submitted a proposal to this House. In this proposal, on the one hand, we urge a change of view for the government to return to the practice of governments before 2010: to pursue an economic policy that does not weaken the forint, but strengthens, leaving our national currency to its fate. In the same proposal, we also stated that, at the expense of prestige investments and at the expense of other completely unnecessary government expenditure, some HUF 300 billion would be earmarked to cover the fate of families in foreign exchange credence. Be a government, state resource to make up for the loss of exchange rates, so that these families can no longer get into trouble, but get out of trouble. The third important element of our proposal is that instead of the asset manager, which did not fulfil its function, the government should create a real estate fund that could help with the problem of currency lenders in the most difficult situation; the problem of foreign exchange lenders who actually risk moving out of their homes. In their case, this real estate fund could be a solution, becoming a tenant from a owner - with a kind of lease agreement - to stay in their homes and settle their situation. These are therefore the proposals of the MSZP. We ask, and even demand, the Government to recognise the provisions of this proposal for a resolution as binding on itself. But the amendment tabled now contains a step backwards even from the original state of the bill: it narrows the possibilities. It narrows down the circle of people that this bill could help. The MSZP disagrees with this reduction. In our view, it does not matter whether someone took out a loan before or after joining the European Union. The point is that according to Hungarian law, he was entitled to receive this loan. Hungarian legislation is not with EU entry, but with 2010 From the end of the year, during the first Orbán government, they provided a legal guarantee to allow anyone to borrow foreign currency in Hungary. Viktor Orbán was also Prime Minister of this government at the time, and Mihály Varga was then Minister of Finance, and is now the top minister of the national economy, and I would just mention that at that time he was called Zsigmond Járai, President of the Hungarian National Bank. So, in our view, such a reduction is unacceptable, and we will therefore vote against this amendment, while we consider the whole bill to be supported. It must be supported, because it will undoubtedly solve a small part of the problem, but we continue to urge the majority of the government to accept the proposals of the MSZP, to address the problem caused by the exchange rate and weak forints. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] because only a complex assistance can solve this problem permanently and soothingly. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-07-04-33	Mr President, Dear House, After four years of testing - on the part of the government - we are here to finally do a little cosmetic work on the problem that should have been resolved at the end of 2010, and the yellings and suggestions that the eight-year period before that led to a serious situation that you really should have dealt with in 2010. However, I find it outrageous and I cannot go without saying that, just as no representative of the KDNP was worthy of speaking in the general debate, the minutes are still being used in proportion to their real social support. I find it quite amazing that, in the case of a very serious social problem affecting hundreds of thousands of people, there is a faction that takes the liberty of not expressing itself, trying to improve or improve the package that lies before us; of which there are, in my opinion, good, recognizable elements, flawed elements that are still repairable and have complete missteps. These need to be discussed, because the productive, normal, constructive debate can only lead to you not going on vacation, but finally solving this problem in its entirety. However, the fact that the representative of the MSZP has joined the ranks is once again talkative, since, in connection with the otherwise legitimate and well-founded criticism of the National Asset Manager, it would create a similar arrangement to take property from Hungarian people, to be leasers, to be tenants in their own apartments, without looking at the whole of what they call a foreign currency loan on a systemic level; the cheating of the century, a series of frauds which, without investigating it, cannot be declared today in Hungary that it is legitimate to take property from Hungarian people, whether it is a financial institution or in your view the state. This is why, of course, Fidesz-KDNP cannot be supported by taking the helping hand away from those who have received anything that looks like help with the National Asset Management Facility. But what did these people get? They got a five-year window period, so if their situation gets better, they can buy their own property back. Bring me three men who did it. They may be able to bring three oligarchs here, but among Hungarian ordinary people it is not typical for anyone to change their fate within a five-year window period in such a way that they can restore their lives. And we are still at the point that although the press is talking about hundreds of billions of bank losses, liberal media are also being buried with various banking voices, but the huge amount of money that has been taken from Hungarian people unduly is being measured in thousands of billions, and we are still in the process of cosmeticizing the details of this. So the government is wrong when it excludes people who have already received apparent help from the National Asset Management Programme. At the same time, the behavior of the Banking Union is outrageous, and it almost reminds me of the rhetoric of the colonists when they say that it is not appropriate to stand in line twice for free bread. Where do we live, please? ! The Banking Association tells the Government of Hungary who it can help, under what conditions it can help, and if it wants to help again, dares to make such criticism? The alliance whose affected members - because we do not all say that, because we need fair banks in every healthy national economy - with the operation of a thousand billion-dollar cash pump, not only Hungarian families have been destroyed for decades, but the entire Hungarian economy has been dried up? And you're going to negotiate with them this summer? And then in the fall, they put something on the table for us? It's absolutely amazing and outrageous. At the same time, this Banking Association issues communications that literally include the Bank Alliance's expectations. The Banking Association should not expect anything in Hungary! Maintain fair market conditions, operate for the growth of everyone in Hungary, or the members of the company do not work! Here's the dividing line between us. Indeed, Jobbik states who dares to say that only banks, financial institutions, and only those that are able to work for the growth of Hungary's citizens will be tolerated in the Hungarian market under a Jobbik government, and we are not curious about those that will lose up to HUF 1 million unduly from any Hungarian credit damage. But the fact that the state oversight system assists in this is the fact that governments now assist in doing so in a row, quite astonishing and outrageous. The question might also arise as to why people who are already in a lucky position with a final repayment do not want to help, since they are also taken out of this package. It is worth considering, however, that a lot of people did not use the preferential end-payment. A lot of people were forced to get rid of their homes, real estate, apartments and property under pressure, so they didn't get in as much a favourable position as the liberal media tended to paint. We can therefore say that it would be worth thinking about this, stretching out the hand of help to those who seem to be luckier, but who should not help them most, but so that, in this banking system, which has committed these classified acts, no HUF can remain unduly, so that no unwarranted HUF should be retained by those to whom the stolen goods should now be returned; and not necessarily by cosmetics as it is before us, but by making absolutely clear steps, by forinting loans at the rate of admission. [[10.40]] Jobbik cannot settle for less because, on the basis of the "polluting pays " principle, this is the only sure way to get the last stolen forint back for the Hungarian people. We can see that you'll settle for less. I'm not saying they're going the wrong way, because the direction may be right, but they're not going the whole way. We support this small amendment package, this cosmetic thing, but gather yourselves together, please, and have the courage to go along this path, because it is only worthy of the Hungarian people and the responsible statesmen to take back the stolen items for their own citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-07-04-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-07-04-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, after four years of delay, there is a substantive package of laws before the House, and Fidesz-KDNP continues to be indebted to the explanation of why in the past four years it has not taken a worthwhile step towards managing the foreign currency crisis. However, I should also respond to opposition speakers here, and I was surprised to hear from my fellow Member Burány that he was still condemning the forint exchange rate. I think it is very clear that the HUF exchange rate was overrated before 2010 and was not simply overrated, but because of the high rates of HUF people, tens of thousands of families, tens of thousands of small businesses were mixed into this currency loan trap. So my fellow Member is on the wrong track when he blames the HUF exchange rate for this crisis, and on the other hand, who caused the artificial overvaluation of the forint exchange rate or the increase in HUF interest rates, should be turned to them, which is a major cause of this foreign exchange credit crisis, which has not been handled by the government side in the last four years. I would also like to say to Mr Z. Mr Carpathian that the proposal of the national real estate fund in itself is a good proposal, which Mr Burány has just said here, and we presented it ourselves in 2011. The point is that when a person has a debt of more than 90 days, let us implement a common burden to put the bank tax into this real estate fund, the municipalities turn their rental stock and the debt into such a real estate fund. This plan, the plan of the national real estate fund, would have been appropriate instead of an uncool asset manager, to ensure that families in distress would not have runaways, and not least, that the basis for a community tenancy that would otherwise have been 25 years' debt to the political elite could have been laid. Possibly Other Politics, however, has put forward a proposal for this current package of laws that would have gone further than the government side has gone and is in line with the Curia's decision as a legal unit. After all, we say that if we think about the principle of symmetry, then the whole story is round, if we pay back not only unfairly, unilaterally increased interest to the banks, but also if there has been a legitimate increase in interest rates, but in the meantime circumstances, market conditions have changed differently and interest rates should be reduced, so there is no longer a reason for the previous interest rate increase and no interest reduction has been made by the financial institution, the unfair interest rate reduction should also be reimbursed to the credit victims. So we should go through with the process and not only the unfair interest rate increase, but also the unfairly missed interest rate reduction. Unfortunately, in the Legislative Committee, you have arrested this proposal and have not supported our proposal, which, by the way, is 3. Paragraph 4 would clarify that the method of calculation provided for therein should be applied only when calculating the value of the instalment or when calculating the capital of the loan. The aim would be clearly the latter, which is why we proposed to supplement this paragraph. On the Rogán-Rubovszky proposal, which clarified the statute of limitations at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, our fellow Member Staudt suggested for a reason that this amendment, in this form, could be beneficial for the banks, and this is a problem. As far as consumer protection law is concerned, not only in Hungary, but in many places in the world, because legislators have noticed that there is an unequal, asymmetrical situation in consumer contracts, including bank consumer credit contracts. Therefore, if a proposal to protect the consumer comes here, it is not possible to create a rule that, where appropriate, could be a weapon in the hands of the creditor, the financial institution, the dominant market participant. Therefore, the Rogán-Rubovszky proposal would be consistent if it stated that this statute of limitations cannot be applied to the detriment of the consumer. Unfortunately, this correction has not taken place, but we will make our proposal in this regard in the coming months. Thank you very much. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2014-07-04-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-07-04-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The speeches, and in particular the statement by the Secretary of State, made it clear that there is a need for a change within the legal relationship, which is so long and lasting, which is necessarily necessary, which is absolutely impossible to resolve in the way that some of the opposition's speakers imagine, i.e. the simple cutting of the Gordian knot. In 2010, and so in fact, Parliament, the government had to face the fact that, within the long-standing relationships, there had been a serious injustice from the outset, starting with the conclusion of the contract, but it persisted for a long and long time. It also had to be taken into account by the government that in applying the principle of fairness, it is not possible to ignore those who are forint-credited here. It is only possible to create and create situations in which this fairness is acceptable to all Hungarian citizens and is clearly and clearly legitimate. This change, which must now take place, can only be complicated. It can only be complicated because it has to be incorporated within the legal system in such a way that it is fully compatible with the legal system, and there is a very important point that cannot be avoided: legal certainty must also be maintained. Consequently, legislation must be designed in such a way that, for the following periods, no situation arises where legal uncertainty is some kind of possibility that can be taken out at times and occasionally. Maintaining a stable legal system for everyone, currency-credited, forint-credited, for all Hungarian citizens, I have to say that it is a primary requirement and a primary requirement. I think it is particularly unfair what has been said about the socialist part. With all due respect, the fundamental problem here was not the original - and it should be stated - that some people may or may not have concluded a contract in foreign currency. That wasn't the problem. That was when it became a mass. And when this became a mass, and there was a government that did nothing at that time, he also lost the right to try to exercise criticism that was not behind criticism, real, moral or legal content. I therefore believe that the steps that the government has taken step by step and very thoughtfully will be exhausted, and this will be the case next. However, this requires trust and full knowledge. I have learned from the knowledge of the Secretary of State that if a layman listens to today's debate, if he listens to the possibilities of the legislation, or even reads it, he will need information that goes far beyond what is said here within the walls of this House, and within which he will receive the assistance I believe the government intends to give to enforce its own rights. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-07-04-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr Attila Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to take an initiative. In view of the fact that Parliament is actually negotiating a very important law today, of course, in a very strange timetable as usual, but what is even more interesting is that the KDNP is one of the pro-government factions, I do not know whether there is a KDNP politician in the Chamber who can make a statement; but since they do not think that they will comment in this debate and express their views, we would like to ask with great respect in accordance with the House Rule that if they do not wish to make use of this opportunity, they do not consider this law important, they should hand their time over to the opposition parties, at least among themselves, calmly and equally. I would ask you, on behalf of the KDNP, to make a statement on this matter. Thank you. [[10.50]]
u2014-07-04-40	Thank you, Congressman. Under the house rules, the chairman does not order a vote on this issue, as it is practically the group's own decision and decision. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for the floor in two minutes, but the hearing is on time, so I will give the floor to the time available. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-41	Mr President, Dear House, The nature of the debate is also indicated by the fact that what I am responding to is no longer present in the Chamber, but that is why I am responding. So it's not the real estate fund, and it's not about a state real estate fund, it's about taking property rights away from people. For this reason Jobbik can only believe in a comprehensive home-building and rental-building programme, which would be able to eliminate the result of the problem: it would be able to give young Hungarians a flat well below the market price and give them the opportunity to stay home against emigration. But why don't you go to the wall with this bill and this package, it proves that you're still living those examples... - we are negotiating a lot with practitioners, I have received a very interesting message today, where a contract was brought before the court, where the financial institution determined the amount of the Swiss franc allocated 10 percent higher than it should have been given to the client. He wrote this in the contract, as he explained that the exchange rate of the forint would deteriorate until payment, and then this counterfeit amount was included in the real estate register. And this may be in Hungary, it is still only in such a phase that its perpetrators do not have to expect any retortion in the next one or two years. But what is most important is that we not only discuss this bill package between ourselves and ourselves, but also that the representatives of the government should kindly step out to the dome, to the conference room or to the lounge, because the foreign exchange credentialers themselves are here in the House, waiting for you in the form of very kind interviews, very kind questions. So face up to your constituents, face up to the people involved. Jobbik does not hide at all that it considers it the most important that the stakeholders themselves and their representatives are given the floor in this debate, at least in such a way and form as to get tired. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And have a word with them, because this is not only your civic duty, but your representatives' oath obliges you to do so. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-07-04-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak at the expense of the time frame available. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP Group.
u2014-07-04-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The reason why I asked you to speak again is because I think there has been a misconception in the debate, namely that the exchange rate of the forint does not play a role in this set of problems. It's quite simply a mistake. The MSZP finds it unacceptable that the forint is so weak today due to a poor economic policy that more than 310 forints have to be paid for a euro, it is so weak that more than 250 forints have to be paid for a Swiss franc. In foreign exchange-based loans, we talked about exchange-rate risks for years, that this was the main problem with taking credit, and the loss of exchange rates caused the problem of living in hundreds of thousands of families, putting their assets and property at risk. Basically, the view that leaves the forint to its fate is wrong, whether it is formulated by the governing parties, or by the representatives of the May Other Politics. The government has something to do with the forint, it has something to do with it and it has a means to do with it. A fiscal policy must be pursued, together with the central bank, that does not leave the forint to its fate. If the forint were as strong as we handed it over to you during the last socialist government, more than 90 percent of the problems would not exist today, and hundreds of thousands of families would not be moaning the burden. Compared to what the bill does, it's just a little bit of a mess. True, he is correcting it, so we support the bill, but we continue to maintain that we need a forint strengthening step, the government, the parliament, cannot abandon the forint and hundreds of thousands of families through it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if there's still a speaker on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I ask whether the Secretary of State wishes to reply on behalf of the authors.
u2014-07-04-45	Yeah.
u2014-07-04-46	Yeah. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you have five minutes and 45 seconds of time. You have the floor.
u2014-07-04-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be brief: I ask all Members of Parliament to support the Government's proposal, because we all agree that the borrowers of foreign currency and, above all, the borrowers affected by consumer contracts, who have been found by the Curia's decision that the banks acted unfairly against them, these borrowers, these Hungarian citizens, deserve to be on their side. That is why I ask you to support the adoption of the bill and, of course, I promise on behalf of the government, as we have promised many times, that today's law will be followed by further steps, and that the government will help the situation of foreign exchange credentialers to take further steps, as it has already done for foreign exchange credential citizens. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-48	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place at the earliest from 13 a.m. today. Dear Parliament, The 2014 XXII on advertising tax follows a series of steps. a joint debate on the draft law on the entry into force of law with a different text and the amendment of certain tax laws relating thereto in an exceptional procedure. L. Simon László, Fidesz, Member T/467. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee presented its summary amendment proposal and its summary report, which are set out in T467/9. and 10 numbers can be found on the network. I would like to give the floor first in the debate to Mr László L. Simon, State Secretary, the author of the bill, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-07-04-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm not going to take the time, I'm just going to give you a very brief explanation of the bill before you. As you know, fellow Members, a few weeks ago we passed the Advertising Tax Act, but at that time, compared to my original proposal, we adopted the amendment of the Legislative Committee in such a way that certain media companies could benefit from a tax benefit on the basis of their losses last year. The press polls of the following weeks have shown that a number of companies can make use of this and use accounting solutions taking into account losses in previous years to avoid the obligation to pay advertising taxes. That is why we thought that the legislation should be changed and the loopholes that remain in the system should be closed by amending the tax laws. Thank you very much for the meticulous attention of the Hungarian press workers for drawing attention to these loopholes, and therefore, thanks to their caring attention, we can now hopefully settle this issue permanently once and for all. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is to ensure that no one is able to escape the obligation to pay taxes; in this sense, this is a tightening up compared to the previous version. All this tightening is done by leaving the tax rates unchanged or introducing a new formula in the legislation: if the advertiser or the media company providing advertising space does not pay the advertising tax, or does not declare the obligation to pay advertising taxes, in this case - special, once again, in special cases - the advertiser himself, the advertiser may also be affected by the advertising tax. [[11.00]] In the single text, my fellow Members can see that the monthly advertising money of HUF 25,000 originally submitted was raised to HUF 2.5 million by the Legislative Committee's proposal, so that if a person advertises more than HUF 2.5 million per month at a company, company, company, media service provider, community internet portal, mostly not registered in Hungary and not operating in Hungary, and is not willing to pay the advertising tax itself, 20% of the HUF 2.5 million advertising expenditure should be paid to an advertising tax, even if the advertiser himself refuses to declare or refuse to pay the advertising tax. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before you therefore serves to prevent tax evasion and non-compliance with tax obligations. It is possible to organise media campaigns here, to put the Prime Minister's family and Members of Parliament in a ridiculous position, but the point is that, along with all this, those who have to pay must comply with their obligations under the law, the legislation must be respected. So that is the purpose of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the bill with your vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-50	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his speech. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai, who wishes to speak on behalf of the Government; I would also ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Thank you, Congressman Schiffer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-07-04-51	Mr President, Dear Parliament, With the basic idea of the Advertising Tax Act, i.e. the fact that all market players have to take part in public burdens, the government continues to agree. We also support the amendment of the law that is now before us, given that the main aim of the amending proposal is to reduce tax avoidance opportunities and to clarify and adapt the legislation that has already been adopted. This includes, among other things, an amendment requiring a company that publishes advertising to declare whether it fulfils its tax liability in any case. If the company fails to fulfil its obligation to make a declaration, the customer shall be subject to a one-off tax of 20% on a specified part of the consideration. The amendment encourages customers to contract only with the companies that follow the law and also protects the interests of fair advertising distributors and reduces the possibility for the infringer to offer its service at a lower price and thus gain an advantage on the advertising market. The amendment to increase the tax base of an undertaking that outsources its advertising activities is also aimed at preventing tax evasion. In order to ensure that companies with significant advertising revenue actually tax, the bill also provides that 50 per cent of the retained losses in previous years may be deducted from the 2014 tax base only if the taxpayer's profit before tax in 2013 is zero or negative, i.e. the taxable person is actually loss-making. The government also agrees with the element of the bill that the law on advertising tax should enter into force only on the 31st day following the publication of the bill that has just been discussed. I am confident that this will give the businesses concerned an adequate period of preparation. Dear Parliament, Following the submission of the bill, a total of five amendments were received from one Member. These proposals are not supported by the government because they do not fit the concept of the Advertising Tax Act and the bill tabled before us for its amendment. The corrections made by the Legislative Committee include partly clarifications, partly for the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. The motion clarifies that the tax base adjustment rule provided for in the bill should, of course, also apply in the transitional year 2014. The amendment that advertising tax regulation and other provisions in law relating to advertising tax, including amendments to the law on personal income tax, corporate tax and dividend tax, should enter into force at the same time also serves to clarify the application of the law. Finally, in order to protect small and medium-sized enterprises, the motion raises the tax liability threshold for the customer's tax liability - this was HUF 25 000 - which means that the advertising customer is subject to a tax charge of HUF 2.5 million per month, and if the customer is an individual, this tax liability is not mentioned at all. The Legislative Committee supports all its amendments, taking into account the government's reasons. Thank you, honourable Members, for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-52	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his speech. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee to give a total of 15 minutes for these speeches to be given 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion in the committee. I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Kara, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, within a maximum of eight minutes. You have the floor.
u2014-07-04-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the T/467. The Legislative Committee discussed bill No.2 and submitted 22 amendments to it with 1 sex and 8 abstentions. Under the proposed amendment submitted and adopted by the Legislative Committee, the rule preventing tax evasion continues to exist, but does not apply to customers who are not in contact with the advertiser of advertising for the purpose of promoting their business, product or goods. It is a significant change that, as has been said in the submitted bill from the speakers before me, the HUF 25,000 customer consideration, for which a tax liability would have been incurred, will rise to HUF 2.5 million per month, according to the submitted amendment. This proposal is for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises, who are exempt from the obligation to pay in such cases. Finally, allow me to reject, here and now, the accusations raised at the committee's meeting about the bill and reject it, according to which the advertising tax is aimed at restricting the freedom of the press. Such a concept of righteous public burdens is simply unfounded and incomprehensible to us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Fodor to present the minority opinion. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, as Mr Ákos Kara mentioned before me, there was a debate between us on a number of issues, and let the Honourable Parliament allow me to inform the Parliament about this, just as it is the officer of the rapporteur of the Commission's minority opinion. Well, when we talked and argued about the Advertising Tax Act, the situation turned out that, at the committee meeting, it was I who clearly opposed the support of this proposal, the majority of opposition representatives, and the rest of them, could accept this amendment with abstention or support, but in some way, so on behalf of the Hungarian Liberal Party, I was able to express at the committee meeting that we clearly opposed the introduction of this tax, and, as has already been said here, we regard it as an attack on the freedom of the press. Why is that? Well, because the whole law itself, so the process started weeks ago, when the law came before Parliament, and the media started talking about it, writing, dealing with it, it was obvious that it was aimed at punishing part of the press. Punishment for providing financial sanctions for various media organisations. Even when we talked about this, it was clear that the RTL Club was the target, but of course it affects others and it affects others, so it also affects other press products in a senseless and unacceptable way. [[11.10]] It was well-known, wasn't it, weeks ago, that an amendment that was then famous as lex TV2, so it was trying to highlight TV2 from this amount, from this summary, from this team, and we finally came to this proposal because, as it turned out, it didn't succeed well, so it didn't reach its goal. In fact, not only did you manage to help TV2, but, oddly enough, you also put RTL Club in a position where this punishment was not as big as the government wanted it to be. So we're also dealing with a kind of government dilettantism, and the intention of punishment itself didn't work out the way they wanted it to. But once again, the intention here is actually the problem. We can see that there is a commercial channel, a commercial channel that is often critical, especially in recent times particularly critical of the government, so the punishment is coming on a conveyor belt. I think that, as a government attitude, it is not acceptable, and it can basically undermine our faith in democracy, our belief in just, right legislation. I think it's a bad image from the government to society. In addition to the fact that fundamental principles of law, as I have said, are being undermined by such a clearly tailored piece of legislation, which, as I said, violates the values of freedom of the press. Indeed, freedom of the press is such that there is the emergence of independent press organisations, which, where appropriate, can be critical to everyone, with the government, opposition, as we need to protect value, because through these types of press products, voters are informed of what we are doing here, for example, in Parliament and elsewhere, what we are doing, what debates we are having. It is this mediation that creates relations in a normal democracy, the assessments that citizens need to develop about their work here. This type of legislation is therefore unacceptable both for legal certainty and for the normal entrepreneurial environment, for the independent press and for the freedom of the press. The first bill, which was born weeks ago, almost a month ago, would have charged a certain type of tax, a so-called advertising tax, to a significant part of the press and would have been charged on it. The conditional method is that the current amendment aims, among other things, to convert this initial load, which was estimated to be around HUF 600 million, into a billion-dollar item. Well, that's what I said, that it was clearly tailored in the same direction, and that's why it's unacceptable, because it's a government vendetta, and it's not right to assist in any way, because it's designed to weaken the media that is independent of the government. That is why I have mentioned that, not only from the point of view of liberal principles, but also from the point of view of all democrats who stand up to freedom of the press, this type of legislation is unacceptable. The fact that, after all, this current proposal would have led to the original mistakes that would have led to an impossible situation for individuals and small businesses on Facebook, Google, and of course we all welcomed that this had been recognised and that this had been changed. It is right to change this, because once again we cannot have any meaningful intention of why such advertisers should be put in an impossible position. It's okay. But that doesn't change the basic problem, because it's a realization or error recognition that's to be appreciated. By the way, at the committee meeting, and this is important, because it is also my honour to inform the House of this, it has been raised by opposition representatives, including Mr Gergely Bárándy, vice-president of the committee, that the Socialist Party will abstain on the vote on the law, on the final vote. But the Member also said that this type of amendment, namely that they allow private individuals and small businesses to have that threshold, so by raising the initially planned threshold of HUF 25 thousand to 2.5 million, they will be able to advertise themselves, and they will not be affected by this penalty tax, which has also been accepted by the Member. But he said that this does not change the position that I was just talking about, that they themselves consider that basically the law, the advertising law, is against the freedom of the press, and that it is a criminal tax. At the committee meeting, Mr György Szilágyi, on behalf of Jobbik, raised it, obviously with some irony, that he believes that RTL should be thanked, in some respects, for what happened, because he saved Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises from a penalty tax by acting decisively. This is also part of the picture, of course, of the fact that there were Members at the committee meeting who expressed this. Let me conclude that, in addition to the opinions expressed by the committee, I, as a representative of the minority opinion as a single vote against, can only confirm that the bill is unacceptable to us. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2014-07-04-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government undertook to enforce a fair and mutual burden on all. In other words, whoever lives and works in Hungary or places his company here, earns his profits here, must pay taxes here under the current Hungarian laws. That's what the bank tax was about, that's what the telecommunications tax was about, and that's what the ad tax was about. The role of the advertising tax is that commercial media with significant advertising revenue and profit derived from it should be involved in public burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, It is in Hungary's interest that the media companies and their television company operating in Hungary be registered with us, create as many jobs as possible, and tax their revenues with us. Advertising tax is part of a fair public burden, since it affects all commercial media as well. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that advertising revenue cannot be removed from the tax authority in any way. Unfortunately, we have seen in recent years that commercial media have used very serious tax avoidance techniques in order to minimise taxes on their revenues. The main objective of the amendments tabled in the bill is to limit the possibility of tax avoidance of undertakings referring to their previous loss. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill we are discussing now does nothing more than close the loopholes that international media companies have used to minimise their tax obligations. With the adoption of the bill, we can ensure that public burdens are met, which is why I ask my fellow Members to support Mr L. Simon's motion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-07-04-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Lukács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-59	Thank you very much. Dear House, We have the ad tax debate once again, and we will discuss the amendment of the amendment. This house rarely saw anything better than what you guys are doing with this ad tax. By the way, the author only spicyly seasons this with his television speeches. He also said in his introduction that he did not know what was written in the law, even though he had been told several times, written down to him, called him, and still does not know what is written in the law. He still says that 20 percent of 2.5 million forints have to be paid. [[L. Simon László intervenes.]] I'm just saying, we need 20 percent of the total over 2.5 million. Here, take a look. That's not what you said. [[L. Simon László intervenes again.]] So we're happy to help Mr. L. Simon and explain to him what's in his bill, because he clearly doesn't understand what's in his bill. Well, there's this law that says nothing but that the media that the government doesn't like should be silenced if it doesn't go any other way, by economic means. This has been said several times, in the debate on this great law. It's no different today, and while this basic story is going on to silence psychics who don't like what they're saying, they don't like what they're saying, but, of course, they keep making mistakes, and they don't manage to modify this law, so that the damage that they're doing to others is actually mitigated somehow. [[11.20]] So, moments after the vote of the law, it turns out that this law is practically about the RTL Club, the RTL Club is in the crosshairs, they have to be silenced in some way, if not otherwise, by economic means. It doesn't hurt me that this law is about the RTL Club, and it hurts me if this law is about anyone else if any law is passed here that otherwise works against freedom of the press. This law is against freedom of the press. Then the amendments came quickly because they happened to make TV2 almost had to pay taxes, so they quickly brought in an amendment so that TV2, which is linked to you, wouldn't have to pay taxes. For we have just heard that those who have income should pay taxes; of course, except those whom they love, and form a separate law, that they may not pay taxes. I'll deal with that later. And when they brought in this proposal so that TV2 would not pay taxes, they realized that they had failed because they did not have to pay taxes to help TV2, they made this amendment. Then they quickly brought in another amendment, so that RTL would still have to pay taxes. It also included taxing online ads on social portals by 20 percent - the share above HUF 25,000 should be taxed by 20 percent. Then, when this was accepted, they quickly realized that this would cause significant losses for small and medium-sized enterprises as well as for a significant amount of individuals, and they have just made another proposal to make this HUF 25,000 HUF 2.5 million, and to tax over HUF 2.5 million. No one has any idea, first of all you have no idea why it was 25 thousand forints, then why it became 2.5 million. It could have been 27 500 forints and 1 million 800 thousand or 27 million and 46 million, anyway, they write numbers all over the place, and no one really knows what kind of research is behind it, what impact studies there are, no one knows. They are rewriting this law every minute, and they still think that the tax base raised from 25 thousand to 2.5 million will result in taxes being paid by those who are not small and medium-sized enterprises, but by large international companies. I would like to say that the big international companies have been helped in this case by raising this tax base to HUF 2.5 million, because, by the way, I would like to say that companies registered abroad can also provide online media services, and they can also provide television programmes, and even though they are registered in Hungary because of company law, they are not subject to, for example, the tax, and otherwise they will not pay these taxes, in vain you think. In the case of individuals, of course, we think that we should have highlighted, for example, the scope of political advertisements from private individuals, which, by the way, you wrote in the original proposal without having to pay taxes on political advertisements. This has been excluded from the tax base, and in the case of individuals, no distinction has been made, let's say, between the Facebook ad of a private website or the Facebook ad of a political site or a political site. This once again gives the public the impression that the political players would like to grant themselves a tax exemption in this case. Who's actually paying taxes on this case? Of course, the publisher should pay the taxes, in which case, let's say Google or Facebook should pay taxes. Of course, if you do not confess or give such a certificate, then the customer himself must pay that tax. It is already clear that no one here is going to receive such a certificate from these companies, and it is likely that the customers will have to pay taxes here. Another interesting question is, of course, because the law doesn't say that, what if, by some miracle, these companies do pay this tax and admit it, while not notifying the customer, and the customer doesn't know this tax and pays the budget, so the tax can be paid from both sides. In worse cases, of course, it doesn't go in from either side, but this law still has nothing to say about how this anomaly is going to end in this case. I believe that if the objective really was to increase budgetary revenues, to be very fair, and these large international companies do not want to minimize their paid taxes, it is an interesting question to mention to companies that, in relation to any company, be it any other company registered in the country, registered abroad or operating anywhere in the world, that the company is doing so insidiously trying to pay as little tax as possible on the basis of existing tax laws. If an economic company is brought from anywhere in the world who does not try to minimize its tax payments under existing laws, then probably the management of that company does not know what it is doing. It's your job to put in place tax laws so that that minimalization would otherwise result in normal tax revenues. But that's not what this law is about. This law is about shutting up psychics who might show that L. Simon doesn't even know what he's doing. But that should be L. Simon László's problem, but we'd really like to help him if he can't tell us his own law. And if you really think that those who make a lot of money in this country would have to pay more taxes, then there is still no explanation why this kind of tax is being introduced, which, by the way, will bring up to 4-5 billion in the budget, especially now that, for example, by raising the $25,000 to 2.5 million, the Advertising Association and other organizations calculate that the government will give up tax revenues of at least HUF 4.5 billion compared to its previous proposal. Then, of course, they don't know what they're going to spend it on, one week they say they're going to spend it on schools, the next week they say they're going to spend it on rural cultural houses, and the third week, they don't even talk about what they're going to spend it on. I could also suggest how much more tax revenue could be collected more fairly. For example, if the gentleman, Andy Vajna, who is your home cinema engineer, did not get some casinos just because he was visiting from Hollywood and had received these few casinos, they even quickly took away his obligation to say that he would pay VAT to the Hungarian state. Well, that leaves a lot, a lot of billions in Mr. Andy Vajna's pocket. If, for example, Mr Andy Vajna's casinos were not exempt from VAT, there might be much more tax revenue to be collected on the VAT side. But if, for example, we had voted in favour of our proposal that the oligarchs, the giant companies that have received an enormous amount of state investment and municipal investment in Hungary in recent years, and almost 90 percent of their activities are public investments, so that they would otherwise be taxed 75 percent over the 5 per cent profit at over 100 million revenues, then many times this revenue, up to 10-12 times in one year, could have been collected on the basis of these taxes. So your problem is that on one side, they're trying to collect cash just to silence the media and restrict freedom of the press, and on the other hand, they're giving their buddies billion dollars and ten billion dollars in discounts just because they're your buddies, and they're friendly with them. This cannot be explained, it is inexplicable, these two things, if we confront each other, are clearly seen in the intention: on the one hand, the intention of abolishing or at least restricting the freedom of the press, and, on the other hand, the intention of nagging friends with billions of dollars. Ladies and Gentlemen, The only thing that could be done with this law is that this law on advertising tax could be revoked, and I repeat what we said in the first debate of this advertising tax law, that this law would otherwise have a place. It is entirely legitimate that these things could be taxed and that it could be discussed, for example, the effects of this on content provision, and I will not mention it again. [[11.30]] But in such a way, it can be introduced, done in such a daunting way, altered in such a way as to drag this law to Parliament, or put it into the Legislative Committee, so that it is not possible to prepare for it in substance, to read it in substance, and it cannot even be modified in substance, and it can be pushed through in minutes and half an hour with amendments that cannot be read, let alone viewed with experts or otherwise made amendments, so it does not work, so it is not possible to create a law. Once again, the President of this House said at the inaugural session that we should legislate slower, with greater care and much more seriously. You have rewarded this with iron applause, and since then you have done the exact opposite. At least listen to their own Speaker, and they are trying to serve the common good with much more elaborate, much calmer, much more thoughtful legislation, because with this law they are practically only serving their friends. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr President Novak, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although I am somewhat sorry that KDNP does not want to comment on this question. I have to agree with L. Simon László's presentation and his justification here that it is possible to put Members of Parliament in a ridiculous position; he was obviously referring to himself, but he did not intend to name himself modestly, but let us name him, and not because of his ridicule, but because I think that this makes Parliament itself ridiculous. If, in exceptional proceedings, you can negotiate a proposal that even the author does not know what its substance is, it is not worthy of the procedure of the Parliament. We understand that the aim of the proposal is to eliminate tax evasion, but that is why the recently adopted law is amended on a case-by-case basis by rewriting the text that has already been adopted but has not yet entered into force, which, according to the practice of the Constitutional Court, also threatens legal certainty. In the beginning, the personalised legislation for Jobbik Hungary has always been opposed by the Movement, and I think that it is an exceptional procedure to negotiate a bill that is basically imposed on a company, a business - even a multi-company - that is not acceptable and must be supported, while we agree that tax avoidance should indeed be avoided, as we have already drawn attention to this in the debate on the previous bill that has not yet entered into force, in vain. We drew attention to other loopholes at the time, unfortunately, in vain. In fact, the Jobbik Hungary Movement proposed for the first time in 2009 the introduction of advertising tax, mainly directly and indirectly, on multi-company companies, with which we did not want to impose another face, but, on the basis of the polluter-pays principle, we wanted to make those affected pay for the costs of cultural pollution. Unfortunately, the Government Party's proposal differs from our ideas in a number of points, but we fundamentally welcome the fact that this can be achieved in some form. Let me remind you, though, that, unfortunately, Jobbik's earlier, concrete proposal could not have been put on the agenda here, that Jobbik had two drafts on this. I think it is necessary to say this because many times L. Simon László, when the noose is tight, shifts this responsibility to Jobbik in some of his statements that Jobbik's pressure had something to do here, but that's not exactly what Jobbik wanted. Our original plan was only a special tax on media service providers, which, in a banded form, objectively defined, socially more valuable and useful content was supported by no or lower tax rates in this sense, and would have punished less valuable and harmful ones with higher tax rates. In recent years, Jobbik has repeatedly proposed the introduction of advertising tax mainly on multi-company companies. First, on 25 October 2010, the plenary session of the Parliament voted - László L. Simon himself voted against here in plenary - the proposal that was in essence implemented today, was so accepted, since our proposal was only one sentence, which was tabled by my fellow Member, Ádám Mirkóczki, which sounded like this: the special tax system on the income of media content providers from their advertising revenue is organised by the Parliament by law. And L. Simon László said no to the National Assembly. So it wasn't Jobbik who was responsible for the legislation here, we would have left it to the Parliament, and in 2010 L. Simon László himself said no. After that, we welcomed it, at least the national opposition welcomed the fact that last year the government acknowledged that this was necessary and published its proposal for advertising tax, although it was painful that they were only willing to take it under the pressure of the EU and that Jobbik's proposal, representing one million Hungarians, had not been considered. The same has happened earlier with the media law, among other things - to mention only one of my own areas of expertise - since in March 2011 EU amendments were adopted, some of which were submitted earlier as amendments, but were not accepted if Jobbik, representing one million Hungarians, proposed something. Part of the cultural freedom struggle of the Hungarian nation is the regulation of commercial media, especially the two large television companies. Now, of course, they are just lying that most of the viewers are being cut off from their attractive shows, but last year they were also alarmed by their withdrawal from our country, which, by the way, would be a serious achievement, as it would open the way for high-quality television entertainment, including the production of historical Hungarian feature films and series, which, unfortunately, has been blocked by the current and previous governments. In addition, the increase in public media ratings would lead to an increase in advertising revenues, which is why the government should not have backed away from the alarm of commercial media last year. As far as the Balliberal part of the opposition is concerned, they believe that the restrictions should be continued on Hungarian people on the brink of their tolerance. As a result of Jobbik's earlier proposal, it would only give so much relief in relation to the advertising tax - which, of course, is difficult to fit into this concept, but it is worth saying that Jobbik's proposal was different in the same way - that, for example, in the case of advertisements that radiate a socially useful world view or a useful world view, since it is clearly an advertising goal, but there is also a social responsibility for an advertisement, for example, if a yogurt advertisement shows a nice, good way of life with a large family, as opposed to, say, a one-handing, it also has a message for social purposes. Even if we didn't classify this as basically an advertisement for social purposes, it would have been possible to grant an exemption where appropriate by introducing the advertising tax in the form of a band. I must remind Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, here exactly one year ago, and also the last day before the summer holiday, of my response to my post-op speech. Unusually, he waited for the speeches after the agenda and felt the need to protest my opposition to the advertising tax. I quote: "The Hungarian government has now considered whether or not the introduction of this tax is necessary, " said Mihály Varga here in plenary just a year ago. And I quote: " The budget does not require the introduction of such a tax. " : Now I could ask what has changed, of course, to refer to the fact that the international situation is increasing; we have been used to similar meaningless arguments, yet this was a sign that the government still did not want to impose more on the multinational companies, and it has become clear that the government's bill on advertising tax was only used to blackmail the commercial media concerned, to become even more government-friendly; of course, of course, they finally concluded a pact, at least last year, Fidesz was able to increase its influence without the acquisition of Simicska Lajos and Zsolt Nyerges by the company's government. Content regulation will not, in essence, continue, to be said, so Jobbik is waiting for the regulation of commercial media, because so far their violations could have had no consequences, no matter what social-destructive programmes or, let's say, seriously unbalanced news broadcasts, at best we had to settle for a win-win. However, you can think of the numerous and essentially no consequences of advertising volume or a few tens of thousands of forints fines in cases where the excessive volume of advertising has been used in a severe and repeated manner. So many violations have remained without consequences and can continue, because unfortunately, based on the experience so far, we cannot expect effective action in the future from the Media Council, which is composed of only Fidesz members. [[11.40]] Mihály Varga's argument that there is no need for additional revenues is also unacceptable because, in the meantime, because of a lack of public resources, it could not be put on the agenda, for example, to remedy the biggest problem in Hungary, the demographic disaster, or just a package of government proposals, so that I do not go further now. I should also draw attention to what the rapporteur has failed to do, even though, in principle, house rules would oblige him to present the estimated socio-economic impact of such a proposal. [[L. Simon László: It happened on the previous one!]] Therefore, let me quote what I have already done and have submitted to Parliament earlier as a justification for the advertising tax that, according to the representative survey of the Institute of Directions, the vast majority of voters would support the introduction of the advertising tax - a survey a year earlier, but I think it may still be correct - more than twice as many people approve of it as rejecting it. This is also remarkable because taxes are generally opposed by guts. I think that the cooperation and protest of the highly influential media and business circles that we have seen here in relation to the advertising tax, while we have not heard one voice when the European Union or perhaps the highest VAT rate for all of Europe was introduced in Hungary. Whenever it was about the interests of the little people, you couldn't hear their protests. In the previous proposal, as I already indicated, a loophole meant that the subjects would be exempt from tax up to half a billion dollars' turnover, i.e., if they were to separate the current ones into sister companies with a turnover of HUF 490 million, let's say on a territorial basis, they would get away with it. [[L. Simon László, swinging his head:]] L. Simon László is wagging his head now and then, even though small companies can do that. [[L. Simon László: It's not like that!]] Clearly not at the RTL Club. If you're just thinking about it, if you're always thinking about the RTL Club, [[L. Simon László: Looks like you didn't read it.]] Well, maybe not, because, let's say, media rights are owned by a legal entity, but let's just say, a Sanoma can tear the company apart, and there's a good chance, like, Ringier and Axel Springer. Of course, the previous amendments to the seemingly loss-making media have made it pointless, except for the RTL Club, which now will not be able to live with it, but they could obviously have sought to be loss-making and pay as little as possible. Of course, RTL is also not covered after the new legislation. Ringier and Axel Springer haven't joined up yet, as far as I know, the GVH still has to say yes, but the NMHH has already approved it. It would not surprise me if, in the end, the bill and now the law did not bring them together, and I do not think it is entirely impossible that this is one of the reasons behind the submission. Finally, allow me to address the use of advertising tax. 'Cause unfortunately, it doesn't seem like there's enough weight in the National Assembly to put the free internet in place. However, in this regard, I have argued earlier, and I am very pleased that László L. Simon expressed his opinion as a kind of parallel justification to Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, that it is indeed right to raise Jobbik's claim that if he does not change the very high internet charges and does not seek to reduce it, he will be put at a very serious competitive disadvantage. That is what the author L. Simon László said the last time I argued for the introduction of the free internet. That is why I take the liberty of saying that, unfortunately, he only got into a debate with us in his closet, and he supplemented us, in which we agreed, that I should now continue my argument on this and my new topic, even if at present only one representative of the government, even one of the record number of state ministers, which has reached 100, is not in place. [[György Balla: That's not true! L. Simon László: The three of us! András Tállai: There are several state ministers here!]] After all, as we can see, none of the Members in the Velvet Chairs sit in this sense, even in violation of the relevant regulations. [[L. Simon László: There are three of you sitting here!]] However, if only for the sake of the record, I would like to say why the free internet is important and why it would have been good to vote in favour of our only one sentence proposal that the revenue from the advertising tax should be used to make the basic retail internet service free. We submitted it as an amending proposal when the advertising tax was introduced because, according to the NMHH annual report here in Parliament, the third lowest mobile broadband penetration in the European Union, i.e. the proportion of mobile broadband users on a regular basis, at least monthly, is the third. Not by accident, since the gross median of Internet access in Hungary was 54 euros, according to this report, which is more than twice the median price of Western Member States. Obviously, it is difficult to compare different levels of Internet services, but if you buy such a middle road, you can see this. In fact, if we look at income relations, we can see that, let's say, the fee for internet use in Hungary is 2200 percent more expensive than Denmark. There the net average wage is above EUR 4000 and in Hungary it is below EUR 500. This is obviously the most extreme example, but it shows that very, very great progress is needed. I therefore ask you to accept our proposal to introduce the free internet. If, at the time of the introduction of the advertising tax, this issue has not been accepted, but generally cannot be covered, this issue must be addressed, otherwise - to quote the author - Hungary will face a very serious competitive disadvantage. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-07-04-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, What lies before us is the revenge of the reject, and, in fact, it should be suggested that in the future the Speaker should be able to impose a fine on such authors for violating the authority of the House. [[L. Simon László:]] who present a bill that has not yet entered into force, has not been announced, and must already touch the House, because they have not been able to do so, although there is also a Parliamentary apparatus behind them to assess the expected effects of that bill. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the fact that we would otherwise be obliged by law to bring forward a bill in such a way that we see clear impact assessments. We did not see any impact assessments when the next generations were in debt on the Paks loan agreement. They hide these impact assessments. It's one thing that you don't mind having no idea what you're pressing the button for, but it's expensive for the country. László L. Simon or others could have been expected to bring this bill here as a representative, as a government man... [[L. Simon László:]] Let's not do this puppetry, my fellow Member, let's not do this puppetry. You are toying with the right of your representatives to submit such self-promotions, so that you do not have to consult the dog, and you cannot be asked to know where the impact studies are! A fair government introduces a tax law with clear market effects [[The Foreman of Novak, yeah!]] In addition, a sectoral tax law and, in addition, clear budgetary impact. The fact is, my fellow Member, L. Simon, that you have no idea what market effects the original advertising tax law itself will have. There is a hypothetical market effect, and that is why this bill has been carved to bring RTL to its knees. If this is a market effect, if this can be seen as an impact assessment, then I will withdraw what I just said. But in terms of budgetary impact, they have no idea what effect this will have, how much revenue the government can expect. It is a shame, a shame, and what we should actually ask the Speaker of the House is to fine L. Simon László, because this type of bill is a significant violation of the dignity of this House. Dear Parliament, Already in the original advertising tax bill, we said that an advertising tax would be supported by the LMP, "the polluter pays " principle is in line with the fact that there is a tax on the advertising sector in the country. Yes, because an advertising tax can be used to curb over-eating on the one hand and the negative social and environmental effects of advertising on the other could be reduced by an advertising tax. But, of course, in this case, an advertising tax, not a media tax, is needed, an advertising tax that applies to the advertising market and regulates the advertising market. A advertising tax could be promoted where the expected market, budgetary and social impacts are clear; an advertising tax could be promoted where, as our fellow Member Novák mentioned earlier, it is clear, for example, what the expected revenue is spent on. [[11.50]] If it is clear that the revenue of the expected advertising tax - or we can talk about media tax revenue - is being used for purposes which, by the way, balance the harmful effects of advertising, then I think we have something to talk about. It's not like that. The money they're collecting, they're gonna get involved, and they're gonna hand it out to their buddies the way they usually do. [[L. Simon László:]] It's working! The difference here is, for example, where the 3000 billion forints disappeared in connection with nationalisation of private pension funds, and we do not know yet that they were smoked. A sectoral tax makes sense if it is clear that the tax revenue that flows into the state register will serve what the tax itself will have on a given market or from a budgetary point of view, and what social purpose the government intends to use for. We haven't heard a blind voice about this in the last few weeks. Dear Parliament, In part, it has been said by Secretary of State L. Simon, partly by others, that some goals could, of course, be supported, because why not; let us impose a tax on advertising in order to say that the pollution caused by the advertising market can be mitigated by the state in some way. Of course, you are not in the moral position to refer to this, Mr. Secretary of State L. Simon, because what pollution you want to reduce, what negative effects you want to reduce when you put an Andy Vajna in charge of the Hungarian film industry, a Andy Vajna, to whom you will spill billions of HUF out of the common register to produce Hollywood productions. You are using taxpayers' money to produce the cheap American product and then come here with a bill of advertising tax to help Hungarian culture and its negative effects on advertising. Cut the bullshit! It is quite clear that this law does not serve sustainability, it is not based on the principle of "the polluter pays, " but it serves a net power interest. The specific bill has only one purpose to bring the RTL Club to its knees. We have said that we cannot support personalised law either earlier or now, regardless of whether the underlying objectives would otherwise be eligible. Two. You also refer to the fact that different companies, foreign owned companies, but registered in Hungary, are not exempt from tax. Good. This legislative objective could possibly be supported. But the thing is, again, they are not speaking honestly, or, in particular, they are not acting honestly. What has seriously damaged the Hungarian national economy in the past 25 years has been the so-called transfer pricing; it is when the subsidiaries in this area engage in various transactions with other companies owned by the foreign owner, such as companies registered in Luxembourg or the Channel Islands, contract contracts and others, and thus generate huge revenues from the Hungarian state register; they artificially, let us say, make a loss or do not make a business here too profitable. This could be dealt with. Compared to this, we see that the recent amendment of the law allows businesses dealing with the State and municipalities to fail to comply with the transfer pricing requirements. In English, who favor orange oligarchs and fidesz dodges, the rules for reducing transfer pricing will not apply. So their reason is that you brought this advertising tax law and the current amendment because you would somehow want to curb the fact that the multi-enterprises would be able to get their income out of here untaxed, of course, that reference is a lie. Because if the intention was sincere, there would not have been a recent amendment to the law that would ease the requirements for transfer pricing in the case of businesses operating with the State, the municipality. Our fellow Member, Mr Simon, spoke about it at the legislative committee, and also made an argument that it would be acceptable that companies such as Google and Facebook, which are not companies registered in Hungary, large companies registered abroad, multinational corporations, and, moreover, if I continue to take this logic to cut an increasing proportion of Hungarian advertising cake, this is also a problem, even if there were no advertising tax, because even if there were no advertising tax, it is that these large world companies are effectively cutting back on the profitability of Hungarian companies registered in Hungary, which are taxed in Hungary. In order to force these large world companies to tax in some way, this was justified by the Secretary of State at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. This could also be approved - but my question again, Mr L. Simon, is where the impact assessment is. Where are the economic calculations that can support the loss of up to 25 thousand forints, but especially at a value of 2 million, such as Facebook or Google, that they will strike their foreheads, be forced to kneel, and come here to negotiate with the Prime Minister at 1-3 Kossuth Square, so that we might pay taxes to the Hungarian state register? What made you think that, Congressman? What makes you think there's a lane where these big corporations can be brought to their knees? On the other hand, I think that Hungarian legislation in Hungary is very difficult to create a rule that would have an economic impact on the size of the country that could bring these big companies to their knees. The fact is, Mr State Secretary, that there is only one way to do this, this is a very good goal, and it is called tax harmonisation within the European Union. If there is a strong tax harmonisation within the European Union, then it is possible to bring these multinational large companies to their knees, which in many cases prey on individual societies and live in the environment. But today, the biggest enemy of tax harmonisation in the European Union is called Viktor Orbán. That's the thing. From now on, the view is that they want to tax companies advertising on Facebook or Google in order to indirectly force large companies to tax in Hungary, I think this is absolutely ridiculous. The former 25 000 border, which was included in the original proposal, would obviously hit individuals and small businesses without otherwise forcing these large companies to agree on a 25 000 border. If you do not agree with this, I would very much ask you to present to the House now, ask for a word, to present to the House the impact assessments that justify your suggestion that there is indeed a band that is no longer worth hiding from, say, Facebook or Google from the Hungarian tax rules. There is no such impact assessment, at least before the Legislative Committee or just before the beginning of the meeting, Mr State Secretary has presented no impact assessment that would justify the market effects that you are considering in relation to the bill. Overall, I think that it is not simply unfair to create a right tailored to a person or even a right tailored to a legal person. The fact is that in the event that a tax law is passed before the House, Parliament accepts it, and then a week later, a few days later, the press draws your attention to the fact that there is indeed a business that can easily escape tax liability and then make a quick amendment to the law, which means that you are unfit to govern the country. If you were to govern responsibly, there would not be a situation, whether we are talking about RTL or advertising tax or other types of tax and taxable person, that, after the adoption of the law, the press would draw your attention to the fact that there are countless loopholes that need to be closed. This is the revenge of the scrap that lies in front of us, the eloquent certificate of the perfect incompetence of Fidesz. So you can't govern a country responsibly, Mr. Secretary. Let's stop playing around with the fact that there's a faction government here. You, Secretary of State, sit two rows back and say that my name is not worth it, I am a simple Member, I have no responsibility to carry out an impact assessment, to declare market effects. That is not true, Mr. Secretary of State, you are a Prime Minister's Secretary of State, the first deputy of the most important minister of the government, and it is the duty of a dog to present a bill with the expected budgetary and market implications, and if you are talking about advertising tax, you are fully aware of its expected social and environmental impact. [[12.00]] And if there is a situation where one week after the adoption of the law, it turns out that a number of loopholes have been left open, it is in vain that you hide behind the quality of your representatives, in which case it would be your duty to resign. It is simply because if a bill comes before the House where, after the adoption of the law, it becomes clear that there are no loopholes, then it means that the nationalist, if he happens to be a government leader, is not fit to perform his duties. Bring in legislative proposals, especially tax laws that you are at least aware of, and perhaps also honour, the Parliament and the public of the country, to explain that such a change in law is likely to have such and such budgetary consequences on the market. You didn't do this for thousands of billion forints in the Paks loan agreement, you don't do it for the expected 9, 10, 11, who knows how many billion-dollar advertising taxes, actually for the media tax law. To sum up, this tax law is, on the one hand, the revenge of the reject, trying to correct their previous error. We have seen this before, didn't Zsolt Semjén say that this is a legislative masterpiece, and then he was brought here three times after that. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Four times!]] Four times, I'm sorry. Here, Mr Mirkóczki, my fellow Member, has been brought here four times. Now we're about the same thing. If there's a portal next week that says there's still a mistake, then, I suppose, we'll be meeting with this bill even in September. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, who was the first independent to speak. You have the floor.
u2014-07-04-65	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, The advertising tax that Fidesz presented a few weeks ago is another nonsense of the Hungarian government, which lies before us. From the beginning, this law had no other purpose but to further limit the chance for citizens to know the reality in which they live. The true intentions of this law are as transparent as rice paper and have nothing in the world to do with public burdens and justice. This law is only for the government of the new party of state to reward the media that are dear to it and for its critics. In the amendments I tabled, in order to avoid unjustified discrimination, I made a single proposal for a reasonable rate of 5% which you did not support. I also suggested that the selective description of the loss distanced from the advertising tax should be coordinated by the government with the European Union, as we believe that this effort, which would only apply to TV2, constitutes prohibited State aid and is contrary to EU law. The majority of governments also rejected this proposal, so we are forced to think that this is indeed a very real risk of illegal state aid. With the advertising tax that we are about to introduce, the government wants to force those who do not nod to you from morning to night, and to force into a clear competitive disadvantage the television, the RTL Club, which does not belong to your media empire. Rapid work, as many people have already said before me, is, unfortunately, rarely good. With the advertising tax, even small and medium-sized businesses would have been sabotaged by the government. Amazing mess. Fortunately, the Government has assessed the amendments we tabled and its foolish and unreasonable proposal for small businesses has been amended at the last minute. How revealing, however, that non-private entrepreneurs, such as us, politicians, are not subject to tax obligations. I think it's embarrassing. Dear fellow Members, This proposal is a typically fidesz, personalized, infinitely dilettant law, whose goals and implementation are dilettant. In a middle-way European country, such a crappy law simply doesn't pass. Of course, this unnecessary and malicious bill will be rejected by the representatives of the Joint-PM. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-66	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, for one representative per faction and for the first independent Member to speak, against the remaining timeframes. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, Further speeches by Members are possible in the remaining timeframes. These may be monitored on the meeting room table. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group.
u2014-07-04-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We see another masterpiece of the kind of legislation called voluntarism by political experts, I think that the common language would call it voluntarism or self-serving. I heard them say that we are making tax legislation so that everyone can make their share of a proportionate public burden and that it is in order to get access to the public services provided by the Hungarian State. In fact, this tax law only does not comply with that. It would have been appropriate if it had not been for self-serving purposes and not been brought before the House so that it could not be debated, since it could not be put on the agenda at committee meetings. It was not possible to put on the agenda in the Committee on Budgets the tax legislation which clearly does not relate to the budget and does not generate any revenue. He did not have a general debate, so this must, of course, be done here. It's also self-serving because there's an interest that doesn't really exist, but yet you protect it, and because there's a real interest that you want to cover up. This real interest is that there are non-governmental media, which are not dependent on the government, whose tax burdens need to be increased. Why increase their tax burden? It needs to be increased because the advertising market is constantly decreasing in the crisis, advertising spending is constantly decreasing, and by means of state orders, you can pamper certain media at their pleasure and punish others with these orders of course. This is the real purpose of this legislation, not what should normally be the objective of a tax law, to proportionate public burdens, to involve new resources in the budget, and to use it to provide public services, which all Hungarian citizens can safely use. Why do I say that? I say this because the Minister of National Economy said that there is no budgetary justification for introducing this new tax in Hungary. And of course there is no, because we should explain why we need to introduce a new tax in Hungary when we do better; then we should say that the Hungarian budget is missing twice 170 billion forints and how they intend to straighten this out; and, of course, we should also say what the Stability Act you voted for requires you to tell us what you intend to use the additional revenue from the newly imposed tax. You don't have to answer these questions, because in a self-serving way and of course bypassing professional discussions, bypassing administrative discussions - here let me make a point, it might have been worth it, because there are professionals sitting there and they could have weed out all these mistakes - they bring this legislation before us and we listen to all these muffled arguments. Mr. Secretary, you're really talking nonsense about this. In front of the Committee on Budgets, you said: " This is a huge amount of money that you have to pay attention to, because it would be enough for a small settlement for how long, a budget of one year, a budget of two years, a budget of three years. " That's what the Secretary of State said, "I was sitting there. After all, it could have been compared with the price of milk because the two had as much to do with each other as with the advertising tax imposed on the municipalities' budgets. But you argued that because at that moment it sounded so good. I would like to see the government side, especially the government players, stand up in the same fight when we release HUF 4 billion in the VAT on gambling. We're very generous there, and here we're lost for some reason. The precise aim must be to determine that the precise objective is to increase the tax burden of media that are not loyal to the government, which are not dependent on the government. You have to stop talking nonsense about this thing, if that's the point, that's what you have to say. Otherwise, I do not think that tax legislation is fundamentally appropriate. But let's look at what many here have mentioned: Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian SMEs. You expect that, and this was the basis of the unorthodox national economy policy, that internal demand and internal consumption will grow tremendously. [[12.10]] Hungarian SMEs 2.5 billion From now on, they can spend tax-free advertising. As my colleague Zoltán Lukács said, what makes this 2.5 billion, I think that no one in this Chamber can say. How did the $25,000 turn out to be 2.5 billion? Looking at one or two balance sheets, one can see that marketing spending is between HUF 50 and 90 billion in a Hungarian SME. [[L. Simon László: How much?!]] How did 25 come out? I will not, of course, get an answer to this question, because the answer to these questions is not one of its own, and therefore you will not tell us that. But if you can reach fewer potential buyers, if you can sell less goods, you will have less income, you will pay less wages or you will pay less people. And, of course, it will not improve, because if you happen to develop it, you can only put it on the market with a good price, and you can only advertise it with a good price, because you have imposed an ad tax on someone for a completely different reason to repel someone and repel a piece of commercial tax. On the issue of enforceability, I think we will return to this bill, as my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, said. In the event that the advertiser accidentally does not pay the tax, I do not know how he will know where this company advertises whether a company is going to run just before or after 2.5 million. This will be a very interesting question, and the question of control will also be very, very interesting in this. I do not think that this current bill will answer these questions. And let us not talk about the fact that when employment opportunities in Hungary shrink, when the market narrows in Hungary in many cases, in many places, you hit another segment. I mean, these ads are made by someone, these ads are made by someone, these ads are published by someone. After that, it's either gonna be more expensive or it's not even gonna be expensive. I think they are Hungarian taxpayers, Hungarian workers, Hungarian people who want to make a living here on a wage. The prices of advertisements will rise, and I believe that this will not achieve the desired goal that they do not want to conceal. The only goal that can be achieved is the one goal that you are constantly trying to cover up. The justification of the law and the events that have taken place since then, I do not think there is any more justification, this is an embarrassing explanation. It's very embarrassing, I think, for everyone. As many people have already said here, this is a violation of the authority of the Hungarian Parliament, of the belief in Hungarian laws, of the roughly firing of the will of the legislator, at a level with which it would be very difficult to compete. We should have gotten used to bringing this type of individual motion in recent years, every kind of technical consultation, administrative consultation and now the proposals which have not been discussed by the committees to the House, but I think that this is unusual, unworthy of this House, unworthy of the authority of the Hungarian legislature, and destroys it. There will be no legal certainty. I am very pleased that this legislation has not been engraved in granite, because we would slowly run out of chiselings, and I think that the chisel will run out by September for those who present these laws. Now we are all arguing with Secretary of State L. Simon, although, frankly, everyone here knows - and don't take it personally - that you didn't write this legislation in your daughter's room alone. [[L. Simon Laszlo spread his arms. Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] That's why we usually had to ask for help to interpret it. But there's one thing we need to draw attention to. You took this on yourself, and you're going through with this embarrassing explanation. But when this is voted by the pro-government majority, everyone will be involved, and all Members will have to explain this. It's gonna be really embarrassing, it's gonna be really hard to explain, because they're doing unexplainable things. That's why I suggest you withdraw it, because it's not a good proposal. On the other hand, this is a bad proposal. It's not thought through. We should start over. We should start over, think again, and come here with a good proposal, and we will probably also be able to have a substantive debate about it when it is not for itself, but we will also see the real goals. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr L. Simon László, as rapporteur, asked for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-07-04-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I asked for the floor because, on the one hand, my fellow Member Novák called me, and I now allow him to speak to me, so that I would not only respond to certain things in the closet, so that there might be a debate. [[Novak Foreman nodds.]] And also because I don't want to run out of time for closure, so I'd like to respond to a few things right now. Let's start with my fellow chef. If I understand correctly, you have now called for me to withdraw the proposal and submit it again, corrected, and then I assume they will not say that we have come back for the third time with the same bill - because so far the problem has been that we have come back with the second time. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] But there may be no self-contradiction here, but I am the only one who understands things wrong again; I also misinterpreted what he said about SMEs. I would ask Mr. Congressman to respond in some way, in at least a two-minute period, and to tell me if we have misunderstood, but how many billion forints is the marketing budget of a small and medium-sized enterprise? [[István Szilárd Németh: 70!]] Or did you say something about Hungarian SMEs? Because I heard something inhumane, which surprised me because the entire Hungarian advertising market, the advertising cake, doesn't reach 200 billion a year, but I may have misunderstood what you said. In any case, I would like to have at least enough opportunity in the Hungarian Parliament to interpret my own sentences myself. And when I said, at the committee meeting, what is a small sum and a large sum, I did not say that this tax should be levied because the expected amount of HUF 8 billion is a large sum for the budget. No! I said that those who claim that this tax should not be introduced because it is a small amount for the budget, and those who claim that it is not worth going into this conflict, because it is a small sum for the budget of HUF 8-10 billion, they despise Hungarian taxpayers, because it is not true that for the Hungarian budget, HUF 8 billion is a lot of money! [[Dr. István Józsa: In Extra?]] Congressman, I'm begging you, really. [[Frightened and murmuring.]] I'm glad you're leaning there and shouting. [[The president's ringing the bell. István Szilárd Németh: he stole 10 percent of Paks. Defiance. The president's ringing again. Intercoms.]] If possible, I also urged my fellow members of the Government to calm down so that I could finish my thinking a little bit. I merely claimed that every single revenue for Hungarian taxpayers, which comes into the budget, is an important revenue, and in this respect there is no difference between HUF 2 billion and HUF 20 billion. I mentioned examples in the debate which, by the way, supported my argument system: see National Cultural Fund, see the budgetary situation of small settlements, and I said yes, HUF 8 billion is a lot of money! But it does not follow from this statement that, by the way, tax remission, whether in economic recovery or in the cultural field, would not be a legitimate means of achieving it otherwise for certain things... To give you just one example, your earlier "great " - the great one in the record is written in quotes! - His prime minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, made one valuable and important amendment to the tax legislation, when, at the request of the profession, the periodicals were reduced to 5 percent - namely, if you do not understand it, I refer to the newspapers - i.e. the VAT on printed press products. And that was a very good effort. It is clear that the budget may have lost revenue here, but on the other hand it could have had an important social and cultural impact, and I think it has. There are cases where taxes should be reduced or tax released in order to boost the economy. But if we look at how many billion forints of corporate tax tax is being paid into the Hungarian theatre sector, we can see that there, in fact, by letting go of tax obligations, the state supports and helps a very important cultural mission. So the fact that on one side we let go of taxes or reduce taxes or reduce tax rates does not mean that HUF 8 billion is not a large and important amount for the budget. I would like to answer a few things to Mrs Szelényi, if she were here, and the independent Members would not have enough to wait for the end of the debate, only to burn to the government side, to tell me why this is a pathetic presentation, then to stand up, and to leave in a gentleman's way. So we can really argue and take account of the debate that we are not arguing or reacting. In any case, the congresswoman said that the aim of this bill, I quote, is to prevent citizens from getting to know the reality they live in, and then added that, highlighting the RTL Club, she highlighted, not me, that we should force the media to self-censor themselves, especially the RTL Club. [[12.20]] Please, anyone who has seen the last few weeks, even the debate about me, has seen that we did not force this bill to self-censor the RTL Club, but that they have finally begun to publish political news in addition to the many, many disaster, accidents and police news and tabloid news on the news. If you like it, you do what you consider important. Allow me to quote Strong Antonia, the well-known news anchor of the RTL Club, which reads as follows: " The newscaster should be objective and simple to express the news, obviously in accordance with the rules of the Hungarian language. I don't add any comments, I don't add any gestures, and then the viewer in front of the television decides what's true, what he accepts or doesn't accept. We'll leave the news to the viewer, no accomplice wink. I think this is the real news. " [[Németh Szilárd István: Long live freedom of the press! Dr. László Kács: Long live!]] Whether or not the news club has implemented its activities in this spirit in recent years, and whether we can see the result of self-censorship in the RTL Club or not, I think my fellow Members can decide that, in any case, I do not see that it is self-censored here. Moreover, I do not see that the real consequence of this bill is to prevent citizens from getting to know the reality they are living in. Another question is whether, let's say, the news and background materials that are tendentiously cut together are labeled tenuously, where they want to make Members laugh, where they deal with the private business of the Prime Minister's father. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This has nothing to do with government. Interventions by MSZP, Jobbik and LMP.]] the extent to which this corresponds to the spirituality [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Strong Antónia wrote in the earlier quote. I am particularly pleased that Congresswoman Selényi has already... [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Can I say it? [[The Foreman of Novak: Of course! That's why we're here. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2014-07-04-70	Ladies and gentlemen, My apologies, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone has a chance to comment. Please keep this. I didn't mean to interrupt, but there's been a lot of polemia going on. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There's a lot of time left because it's time-framed.]] Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-07-04-71	Thank you very much. I also enjoyed the fact that she said that the implementation of the law is dilettious, so that the law that we have just begun to negotiate has not even been adopted, and that its implementation is already dilettant. But by the way, my fellow Member, Cook, he did not use that term, but he advanced it because he said that he would see how the tax authority would otherwise check it, or how it would even add up whether the advertising cost exceeded HUF 2.5 million to an entrepreneur. Dear fellow Member, It is the business of the contractor to do his bookkeeping, to prepare his tax return, and then the tax authority only checks whether he actually paid the VAT after the amount of income he confessed to, or more precisely whether he actually made as much income as he paid the VAT, so whether he provided real and accurate data. Of course, it is the taxpayer's job to prepare the tax return accurately and professionally. If a person regularly advertises somewhere, it is only because of his business that he knows how much he spends on advertising from his own budget, i.e. how much he reduces his business revenue with such expenses, and how much he can generate. So you're comparing in some way that I've given up an ad, that's what it cost me, and that's how much revenue I can make, and at the end of the year, when I draw up my balance sheet, I can reduce my total turnover by what percentage of costs I have, by the way. Ladies and gentlemen, I also tried to follow Congressman Novak. Allow me not to respond in substance to the many, many suggestions you have made, but to one thing I should point out, because I have received so many gestures from Congressman Novak that it is in some way appropriate for me to repay you. You are right about Internet penetration, I said this last time, and you are right about the fact that in Hungary - even in a European comparison - high-level internet user prices are blocking the growth of internet penetration, so that there is more access to internet subscriptions to the broad sections of society than they are now getting. It is also true that I said that this could cause a competitive disadvantage for Hungary. In this regard, I can say that we are looking forward to both opposition and pro-government proposals, and, by the way, we are asking service providers to be kind enough to lower their prices if this can be requested in a free market competition, but it must be considered whether the state has or does not have a regulatory task in this area. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In any case, I would like to say two more things to the Member: I wish to disappoint him, Minister Varga did not wait for you because his speech was so important, but because he did not have a State Secretary at the time, so the Minister was forced to sit in the velvet chair - just before the Member thought that Minister Varga wanted to argue with you. And if we say Ringier " ringier " consistently, I ask you next time not to order " Cabernet Sauvignon'in the restaurant, because it will still be a problem; I just say, because " ringier," the congressman said several times, so there is still room for improvement in your field. [[Defiance. Dr. Gábor Staudt: You should have said that in the closing. Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-07-04-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group, in a two-minute timeframe.
u2014-07-04-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I didn't think I was going to say this to you in this debate, you're right, I was wrong, I was going to say millions, and I said billions by accident, but I still think I didn't get the point of saying it, even though I repeated it three or four times to get it right, that I was hoping you would disprove it, but I didn't. I continue to say that this is about increasing the tax burden of non-government media until they are dependent on government mandates; I believe that this was the essence of what I had to say. And the other one, just like you saw in front of the Legislative Committee your mistake, so now I realize I made a mistake, I said a billion instead of a million. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-74	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László L. Simon will be speaking in a two-minute time frame. You have the floor. [[L. Simon László: I will wait for Congressman Novak.]] I give the floor to Mr. President Novak. You have the floor, two minutes.
u2014-07-04-75	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, too, L. Simon László, for taking up my request in my previous speech, and now participating in the debate, and not continuing the own and, in general, government practice of responding only in the closing words to our proposals when there is no way to respond in return. But if you've made that mistake in that sense, I can now be more specific. On the one hand, I am fundamentally pleased - and this is the most important thing before clarification - that we agree that Internet charges should be reduced, but it is a very naive attitude for you to ask Internet service providers to lower their prices. I think that, if it is not so well-acclaimed as a conflict avoidance - and I say this seriously - that it is worthy of recognition - that it makes the necessary proposals, even if these are sensitive matters, it must fight to reduce Internet usage charges even by public authority, if our proposal had not been adopted, which would have proposed another way, and this would have been the introduction of a free basic Internet, which would also be in the interest of Internet service providers, because if we introduced another hundred thousands of services into the world of the Internet, they would sooner or later pre-pay higher services than their own money, I think. However, you are absolutely wrong, and I must clarify that - although it is not a very important question, but if you have responded to this only instead of my point of view - that Mihály Varga did not now, until she had a secretary of state, react to my post-scheduled speech, but a year ago, as I mentioned, on the last day before the summer break. So you did wait for him because he thought it was very important - in an unusual way - to respond even to a post-scheduled speech. I did not say that, because of my person, that is not the point, sir, but that this question, that advertising tax is not necessary, was so important to state here that it reacted to even post- Agenda speeches, both from him and in an unprecedented manner from the government in general. I'm glad it's changed, though. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-07-04-76	Thank you, Congressman. I am now giving the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here you go, two minutes.
u2014-07-04-77	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mr Cook for making things right, and we have clarified how many millions are spent by SMEs, although this is also an interesting figure, I would like to know where it came from. If you still have a two-minute window, let us know if this is some kind of average. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: If KDNP gives us a few minutes.]] because he said he was an SME, or not an SME... [[Intercoms from the MSZP.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[12.30]] In any case, this is your speech today, and the fact that you have actually followed me here indicates that we, as Members, are not infallible, and I do not think that is embarrassing at all. It's not embarrassing even if we make it look like it sometimes. And I also think it is okay to bring a bill back to this House; especially if you consider that my original bill did not include the requirement that companies operating at a loss could be granted some kind of exemption from the payment of taxes. Therefore, this amendment is due to the fact that, unlike my intention, the Legislative Committee has tabled - and in this way we have accepted in the House - an amendment in the original bill that forced us to take another step. The bill should not have been brought back to the House if it had not been proposed to exempt loss-making companies from tax to some extent. If this is not the case, it is not possible to reduce the annual revenue, otherwise, with the loss of retained earnings. I will also follow Mr Novak if I have misunderstood his speech, and this ominous case was a year earlier; and I am very pleased that Minister Varga considered your speech after the agenda so important. May God grant me that even I, as Secretary of State, may be in this position. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-79	Thank you, Mr. President. I thought L. Simon László was going to tell you that God gives you the chance to come into this situation once as a minister. [[L. Simon László: I don't say that.]] The thing is, Mr. Secretary, in your speech, you have made it clear that a psychic is dealing with the private business of the Prime Minister's father. Now, the thing is, it doesn't matter if a person who owns a business is the Prime Minister's father or who he is; if, say, a mining company is doing environmental work in a Natura 2000 area, I think that if there is freedom of the press in Hungary, then a medium has a dog's duty to talk about it, just as we are going to talk about, it doesn't matter who the Prime Minister's father or who he is. If we apply the principle of "the polluter pays, " Mr State Secretary, this is not only true of advertising, but also if, say, someone wants to explore a Natura 2000 area. But what I have asked for is that, of course, you are right that the particular reason why this proposal before us had to be brought here and that the advertising tax law had to be brought back is because of the amendment tabled on a Legislative Committee. That's right. But, Mr. Secretary, you have to answer two questions. One is why it was necessary for this bill to be discussed in an exceptional urgent procedure by the Parliament. Of course, if the Parliament had not dealt with it in an exceptional urgent procedure, but in a normal procedure, I think that the evaluation of the various opinions and amendments could perhaps have been more prudent. My other question is whether Mr Secretary of State has done any modeling before presenting the bill, how many loopholes are possible that can otherwise be used by businesses placed in a taxable circle. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, spoke not for two minutes, but for the time frame available in the normal timeframe. You have the floor.
u2014-07-04-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think it is a mistake for a Member to speak - in parentheses: even if he submits a bill - not to examine in depth and in full detail the facts and how the processes evolve, since there is only a sound conclusion that can be drawn from them. But without knowledge of the facts, it is also a mistake similar to a rash and unfounded expression of opinion if it cannot examine processes from a sufficient distance and with appropriate criticism, and, as they say, it does not see the forest from a tree. Although I particularly appreciate the fact that Congressman L. Simon is taking part in the debate, this is a refreshing exception, as we have carried out most of the debates in the last part-session without having spoken to him, at the very least as a rapporteur, and at the end, he closed, but I still think that this would be a mistake for those who would wish to judge by analysing the technical reasons of the bill or the pro-government representatives, namely, even Mr L. Simon, that this law is good, acceptable or not. I rather believe that this proposal should be included in the process that has already been mentioned in part by several fellow Members. And the process looks like there's a television station with a lot of ratings that doesn't belong to you yet, to your interests, which is not yet your mouthpiece. The reaction to this is not, for your part, to ban this television tax, but we are only there - and I am now quoting - that they wish to adopt laws on economic matters which, if they do not question the existence of this television tax, make it significantly more difficult. I think that television has finally started to work, and this is something new for you, as it should have been before. [[Noise, interruptions and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties. L. Simon László:]] It started to work so that newscasts were finally not about criminal reporting or finally not about what the opposition was up to, but, wonder of miracles, criticizing the government, criticising the government parties, criticising the business interests of the ruling parties. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] Well, that's what happens in a democracy. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. L. Simon László: We say the same thing.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is unusual for you, that is the case. I see you're very excited about what I'm about to say. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] because they are shouting quite loudly in Parliament's horseshoe and in the Chamber. As the President has just said, you obviously have the opportunity, unfortunately, to make your point in this debate much more than we do. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is unusual for you to think that there is still a television tax in Hungary that is not your mouthpiece, but that deals not with the opposition, but with the things you are dealing with, the criticism of the government and the criticism of the business circles close to the government. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] And then, compared to all that, the reaction you've made speaks for itself. In a spectacular speech before the agenda, the government is asked by their group leader, nothing but to send the tax authority on this television. And what is even more surprising, and here, of course, we are starting to move away from democratic values, the representative of the government will even do so. Because you, fellow Members, are acting as irresponsible Members, it is one thing, but that a member of the government, the minister responsible for the economy, misuses his power to use the tax administration as a virtual tool, as a hammer, to humiliate a market player whose behaviour you do not like, I think that is more than much, as they say. Then they submit an amending proposal, which makes the provisions of this law even more so by the RTL Club. Well, my honourable fellow Member, at the end of the process, there really remains only one question as to what kind of world we are living now. What kind of a world are we living in when the government uses its authorities and authorities to abuse its power and powers, to regulate market players who behave in a way that you don't normally like? He's engaged in an open war, and once again, he's engaged in an open war with the help of his authorities. And I think, fellow Members, that it does not need to be highlighted either, because you know exactly in which eras it was customary, whether for political opponents or for market players who behave inappropriately to government and power, not to act loyally, to send the authorities on it. I'd like to ask you, is this the age we live in? [[12.40]] And one sentence in response to the Secretary of State, not in terms of substance, but in terms of form. You know, Secretary of State, if you didn't put these debates on a time-frame, we would be able to respond to a lot more. The fact is that, for example, KDNP did not use a single second of thirty minutes in this debate again, and the opposition, not only ours but also other opposition parties, is running out of time. So if you want to argue, I highly recommend that if this issue is not important to KDNP, then give the opposition factions the time frame that they have at least got to know us in this debate, if we have not been able to get to know KDNP's opinion in any other debate, let us at least know one in this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the two-minute speeches are now over in this round and that, in the next round of speeches, two-minute speeches will be possible. Mr L. Simon László will speak.
u2014-07-04-83	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, opposition representatives cannot say that we are not taking part in the debate, and especially that the rapporteur is not taking part in the debate. However, I note to Congressman Novak that the closing word is a perfectly legitimate genre to conclude as the author. There's a congressman besides me who can also speak up. However, I assure my colleague Barondy that the position of the KDNP is certainly not far from Fidesz on this issue. [[Zoltán Lukács: They received Fidesz's position weeks ago.]] If they don't say that here, you should rest assured that they will vote as we vote. [[Zoltán Lukács: We have no doubt about that.]] I said I certainly did. I'm in agreement, Your Honour. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] It'd be really nice if they didn't yell at me. But thank you very much, and I am honored by your appreciation for my participation in the debate. But for one thing, I have to speak very, very strongly. You say here in the Hungarian Parliament, to a democratically elected parliamentary majority with two-thirds power, that we are not yet in the position to ban an unfavorable television tax... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why, are we already there?]] No, you said we weren't there yet, but what you're actually suggesting with the whole context is that they could do that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's true! Zoltán Lukács: And now he was modest. Noise on the opposition side.]] Congresswoman Vadai is here and she's yelling at me right now. It's so good. Where have you been, Congresswoman? [[Defiance.]] He plugged in his card and yelled. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm going, good, I'm not interrupting.]] And he goes out. [[Fits and noise.]] Is it possible for me to speak, Mr. President? [[Zoltán Lukács: Talk about the law!]] We'll talk about the law if it's in your criticisms, because they've dealt with me and my media appearances twice as much as they did with the law, because they couldn't add too much substantive criticism to the law, they're just saying the same thing all the time. For example, it is said here that you, the former Member of the Parliament, and Mr Bárándy, have said that we want to repel televisions that are not related to the government, and that Mr Bárándy has said something quite similar, namely that we cannot accept that there are media in Hungary that do not say what we think, and then that he has given an example of the ideas expressed in the RTL Club News, which is funny because they started just after we accepted the first version of the advertising tax. For a moment there was no internal political news, especially no serious government criticism, internal political news at the RTL Club! I don't know what you're talking about. From this point of view, we had the best television, which did not criticize us, only showed us train crashes in South America and plane crashes in Andeans, and how a three-legged cow was born somewhere. [[Zoltán Lukács: It is also important.]] Congressman Luke, let me finish. So if that's what I'm going to say, excuse me, but I don't know what you're talking about. [[Zoltán Lukács: That's the problem!]] Moreover, this bill - I said it last time, but it is not paying attention - also affects so-called media near the government, forcing it to pay taxes. Moreover, fellow Members, these media do not hide their income anywhere, but also pay the Hungarian State a profit tax, as opposed to, say, the last year of the RTL Club you mentioned, or the 5,5 million before last year, if I remember correctly, before tax. Because some of that $40 billion has gone missing; read the relevant article of the Index two days ago, and it shows what tax avoidance techniques are used to get the money out of the country. [[Zoltán Lukács: Why not stop it?]] (In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr Mr. Schmuck replaced Ms. Erzsébet.) Ladies and gentlemen, Let's not pretend this law is just about the RTL Club or just about opposition media. This affects News TV, Echo TV, Magyar Nemzet, Mahir in the same way. [[Zoltán Lukács: Only they receive government ads.]] I told you the other day how much tax these businesses paid and how much they had done before tax in the last year. [[Zoltán Lukács: And how many public ads do they receive?]] Congressman, can I go through with this? [[Zoltán Lukács: Use this as well.]] They will speak up, and then I may respond in the closet, honourable Member. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We just don't have time!]] Well, you shouldn't have talked about all the unnecessary things. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] Congressman Bárándy directly claimed that the government should regulate market players through its authorities. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2002 your government made a White Paper immediately after the elections and put it on a criminal list, a list of companies that received Széchenyi's planned support between 1998 and 2002. Then your Secretary of State, László Keller, made a witch hunt, which resulted in no progress in any of his proceedings. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Do you follow this fine example?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Your practice is to stigmatise businesses that do not please you, put them on a bench of shame, make their lives impossible in the grant accounts after 2002; look at the fate of Széchenyi's planned grants [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Talk about sending the APEH on us.]] And your former Secretary of State has tried to start a war here against private businesses that he believes to be close to the government or even not sympathetic to the MSZP. [[Zoltán Lukács: Now let's get to the law.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Schiffer says that I have objected to the practice of the RTL Club's television newscast to deal with the private business of the Prime Minister's father. Congressman, that's not the problem. You are right; if it were true that the Prime Minister's father had committed an irregularity, otherwise to a degree that could actually be included in the news of a national broadcast of commerce, I would say that your argument system could be valid. But I was just quoting the self-religion of the television editor and host Antónia Erős, who has been leading the evening news of the RTL Club for over a decade, who is the defining face of the RTL Club News. And from this quote, it turned out that for himself, I think about what professional and ethical standards he considers to be appropriate for his own commercial television. And I said that what's happening right now is a witch hunt. It's not factual, objective reporting, it's the kind of contamination, it's the manipulation that goes against exactly what Antónia Strong says; it's just wink at the viewer, and he says, "They're villains, aren't they, the Prime Minister's father is cheating, isn't they?" [[Dr. András Schiffer: What does News TV do?]] Ladies and gentlemen, That is what I was referring to, and not that any television would otherwise not have the right to detect irregularities. And let's not mix things up. [[Zoltán Lukács: Doesn't it feel bad to be doing this to people?]] We are talking about a very serious professional and ethical problem, which, by the way, is independent of the question of advertising tax. The advertising tax, my fellow Members, in this sense affects all media close to the government, remote from the government, opposition or independent. Once again, I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. [[Zoltán Lukács: Definitely!]] taxable persons will be kind enough to comply with the law and pay taxes. [[Zoltán Lukács: Or else?]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group, on the basis of the time frame available. You have the floor.
u2014-07-04-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, I am sorry that L. Simon László has dealt with issues which are very different from the subject, or with the language slips of opposition from different parties. [[12.50]] However, as far as the private business of Viktor Orbán or other family members is concerned, I think that they should appear on the news. Well, imagine if we said that György Hunvald's private business should not be dealt with in the media, or, let me say, not mention a politician criminal, you could say that we should not deal with Tamás Leisztinger's private business. Even if it is related to, say, Gyula Molnár, the politician of the MSZP, who was sentenced to second degree imprisonment, but then, thanks to a former candidate of the MSZP, his candidate for Constitutional Court could make a decision at a third instance, in this sense he has already been dismissed. Let's not talk about all this because these are private businesses? I say we talk, even if it concerns the Orbán family, even if it concerns the various politicians of the MSZP. We agree, however, that it is not acceptable for these media media to fulfil the obligation imposed by media law and media constitution by sinking their news to the level of tabloid news. We agree so much that you voted in favour of our basic proposal for this, although ultimately not quite as we proposed in another amending proposal. After all, we would not have included the issue of political crime in this, by the way, with my colleague Sándor Pörzse basically proposed a 20-percent quota, and obviously we would like to see more news about the growing problem of Gypsy crime, because this is a burning problem with Hungarian society. However, you voted against it, for example, to take out the political crime and to include the accident news. And why is that a problem? Because we see that the Media Council and the NMHH report discussed here in Parliament last time, this was about the year 2012, which we could discuss here last year, and this is the most recent one that Parliament has not discussed here, we have seen that the 20 percent criminal quota, how surprising, has not been passed by anyone. So, Mr L. Simon László, while saying that it is not acceptable that, even in recent times, the birth of a three-legged cow has been reported on a regular basis by the newscasts, which, unfortunately, Mr. Lukács of MSZP commented in his interrogation that it is also an important news, but this practice is unfortunately already against the law. However, the NMHH seems to show year after year, for example, that no medium has exceeded 20 percent of the criminal quota, such as TV2, 19,9 percent. Well, to put it mildly, that's a little suspicious, because it's quite subjective what we consider a criminal news quota. Thus, especially when we look at a quota in an annual comparison, it is extremely easy to manipulate it even in the last few months. Therefore, there is a suspicion of collusion here by the Media Council; especially if we compare it with another indicator of their own report, since the good measure of the tabloid city of news shows is that 31 percent of news deals with disasters, accidents and crimes, 31 percent of the media's investigated segments. But if you look at this on TV2, there's 60 percent and 48 percent of RTL Klubon deals with scandals, disasters, accidents and crimes. After that, it's 60 percent on TV2, saying that none of the 20 percent criminal quotas are exceeded, I think it's more than impertinence from the Media Council and the Authority. Therefore, we really agree that the news that unfortunately characterizes the media is unacceptable, but when will the Media Council, composed of only Fidesz members, finally do so? In its predecessor, the ORTT, all parliamentary parties had delegates, we could have spoken there, we could have initiated proceedings, but you have terminated this, which, I think, is such a serious violation that there is no other party in the most important media monitoring body, not even the KDNP, but this has been swallowed up despite the fact that the Parliament in principle decided by two thirds, this is about a violation of the rights that only members of the most important media monitoring body will be represented in Fidesz, as if only the delegates of Fidesz would be included in the most important body to monitor the cleanliness of elections, such as the National Election Committee and in general the ballot counting committees. Well, let's not be surprised that there may be such serious violations of law, and I am very sorry that KDNP assists at this level, that now it doesn't speak to him in successive debates. In fact, now that we have said so, L. Simon László tells us to calm down, KDNP's position is not far from the Fidesz. We just don't know if you're saying this as a KDNP spokesperson or as a spokesman or as an instruction to KDNP, and it's not for us to inform, it's for the KDNP. It would be nice to hear KDNP's opinion on this matter or even on the free Internet. After all, Jobbik suggested that the revenue from the advertising tax should be used for the introduction of the basic free internet. In addition, we could raise a number of arguments, if they were to argue at all, or if we look forward to it, as the author said, this will cause a very serious competitive disadvantage in Hungary if Internet charges are not reduced, whether by introducing a free basic Internet or by other means. We would like to know if KDNP has its own very strong position on this, if appropriate. I look forward to your involvement in the debate. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-07-04-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-07-04-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The historic moment has come that Secretary of State L. Simon has explicitly acknowledged which media should be considered to be close to government. Thank you very much, Secretary of State, we will use this. [[L. Simon László: I didn't say that.]] Yeah, he told me, told me their names. Now, Secretary of State, you argued that this tax should also be paid by the media you call close to the government. No doubt you're right about that. The only thing he's been listening to is what the LMP has been demanding for a long time now is what it needs to be done to allow the Prime Minister's Office to ankle billions of dollars each year in the name of a flood of government lies. Ban government propaganda, legislate the advertising policy of state-owned local government companies, and forbid advertising spendings for state-owned companies in monopoly situations. You know perfectly well, Mr. Secretary, that they are manipulating the media market by, in principle, paying taxes in the same way that the channels close to you pay taxes as others, but by grouping state money here and there, they are able to create a more favourable market position for companies that are close to you than others. That's what we're talking about. There is no answer to what is necessary to say that Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. The one-sided nuclear propaganda comes from massive billions. Who's gonna decide where the biggest winner of the public procurements is gonna spend the money he's been receiving from public funds? Who will decide, let's say, the also non-competitive MVM Zrt. Where do you validate your ads? You know exactly how the media market, the public, has been manipulated in the last 25 years. You're not the only one who's doing this now; that's what your ancestors have done, and that's what we should stop doing. If government propaganda and the propaganda of state monopoly companies are banned, if the law regulates the advertising policy of state and municipal companies, then it would be honest to say that this media tax must be paid by the media close to the government, not just to others. And the other thing is, if you're making jokes about the meaningless bullshit in the newscasts of some channels, the fact that commercial television has virtually depoliticized the public over the past 15 years, then all I have to ask is who voted for the media law. We had a proposal at the time, in 2010-2011, on how to expect greater public service from these channels. You have not taken any steps towards this. Mr. Secretary. Finally, I look forward to your response to the fact that, before submitting this bill of advertising tax bill to the House, you have assessed the loopholes, how this law can be played out, and, moreover, what social, market and budgetary effects this law will have. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek and Dr. Wind Bernadett applaud.]]
u2014-07-04-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak at the expense of the time frame available. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr L. Simon László, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate, to make a final statement. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-07-04-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'll be very brief, because in the last hour or more than an hour, I've reacted to almost everything. I would like to say to my fellow Member Schiffer that this amendment, which I repeat myself, was the result of the TAB amendment which allowed companies that had lost money to be exempted from tax to some extent. [[13.00]] (The presidency of Dr. János Latorcai, the He's the vice-president of the Parliament. László Földi takes over the notary seat. ) Therefore, it is clear that this element, the extent to which the amendment created an opportunity to escape from the obligation to pay taxes, has not been examined in such a short time, but we can firmly say that we do not want to lose any forints of budget revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to one moment. The survey and analysis of Századvég appeared in the press, and this representative poll revealed that 95 percent of the adult population of Hungarian society are aware of the introduction of advertising tax. And this study also showed that 66 percent of those polled, those who know about it, support the introduction of this tax in this form. This is far more than the voters of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance. In fact, I have to say that this is more than the number of people who, by the way, appear as a certain party electorate and vote for your parties or our parties. In addition to this fact, ladies and gentlemen, let us not go away. At a time when you have criticised the introduction of the advertising tax as drastically as you have done in today's debate, I say this to the MSZP MEPs, again against the will of the electorate, you are thinking again about the functioning of the media as voters think. You are talking about freedom of the press, while this issue has nothing to do with freedom of the press, the debate has also shown that the adoption of the first version of the bill has only increased the prestige of political journalism. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support the bill before us. In Hungary, no one is allowed to circumvent the legislation, so pay the tax on which the Parliament has decided. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-07-04-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will be taken in the course of today's decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats, because there are decisions to be taken in accordance with our agenda adopted from 13 a.m. and at the moment it is 13:3 p.m. I would like to inform the House that, on the basis of our adopted agenda, since we have exceeded 13 hours, there is no time for Parliament to proceed with the T/464 before the decision-making procedures. The general debate on bill No 1. Accordingly, this will take place after the decisions have been taken. [[Several Members are arriving in the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Once again, I ask my fellow Members to take their seats, because we are continuing our work. Decisions will be taken. I ask the faction leaders to secure the quorum. Before the vote, I declare that President János Áder has sent today a transcript to the President of the Parliament on the appointment of State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr. László Földi to present the transcript. Here you go, notary.
u2014-07-04-91	Dear Parliament, The president's transcript is: " Mr.László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I would like to inform the Parliament that Article IX of the Fundamental Law Article 4 (j) and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 52. As of 15 July 2014, I appointed Dr. László Palkovics as State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources. Budapest, 4 July 2014. Sincerely, János Áder. "
u2014-07-04-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. [[How many are we up to?]] Congressman! Do you know the house rules? It should be read once, Mr President, in order to comply with all the regulations which are binding on you as a member of Parliament. [[Foreman Novak: Shouting is a parliamentary genre.]] Congressman, I would ask you very nicely once again not to add anything, because in this case I will act in accordance with the rules of the house. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of myself and Parliament, to congratulate the Secretary of State on his work and wish you good luck and good health. Dear Parliament, A final vote on the bill amending certain land laws follows in an exceptional procedure. Spont Sándor Fidesz's own motion T/357. Available on the website. The debate on the summary report of the Legislative Committee was held at our last meeting. The committee has not tabled a summary amendment, so in the final vote we will decide on the original text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/357 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 126 votes, 31 votes and 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that the proposal for an amendment to the bill amending certain laws on the subject of education will be decided in exceptional procedure and the final vote. The submission is T/311. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/311/31. and the summary report is T/311/32. Also available on the website for everyone. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. Under the rules of the exceptional procedure, a proposal for an amendment which is not included in it cannot be requested to be maintained, nor can a separate vote be taken on the points of the summarised amendment. As before, I respectfully ask the Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/311/31. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 129 yeses, 56 votes not, without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/311, as amended by the summary amendment. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill with 129 votes, 34 votes against and 21 abstentions. [[13.10]] Dear Parliament, In accordance with the derogation from the house rule adopted at the meeting on Monday, the decision to amend the draft law on the resolution of certain issues relating to the consumer loan agreements of the financial institutions and the final vote will follow. The submission is T/465. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T465/9. Number T465/10 and the summary report is T465/10. The website is also available for all of them. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T465/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 26 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/465 as amended by the summary amendment. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 184 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2014 XXII on advertising tax follows a series of steps. a decision on an exceptional procedure and a final vote on the proposal for an amendment to the bill on the entry into force of law with a different text and the amendment of certain tax laws relating thereto. The submission is T/467. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/467/9. Number T467/10 and the summary report is T467/10. Also available on the website. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. Under the rules of the exceptional procedure, a proposal for an amendment which is not included in it cannot be requested to be maintained, nor can a separate vote be taken on the points of the summarised amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T467/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 151 votes in favour, 27 against and 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/467 as amended by the summary amendment. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 151 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the draft law amending certain laws on financial matters. Erik Bánki and Gábor Riz have a separate motion from our Fidesz fellow Members T/264. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/264/5. and the summary report is T/264/6. can be reached by a number. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee submitted a single proposal, which was proposed by T/264/8. You can also get to know me on the website. Now it's time for the decisions. In the light of the request for a separate vote, we shall decide in two instalments on the proposal for a summary amendment. The resolution house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 6 of the draft amendment, the MSZP Group proposed a separate vote. This initiative is T/264/7. Number 2 is also available on the network. That's what we're gonna decide now. In point 6 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee proposes to add a new section to the bill. At the request of the MSZP, Parliament decides separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 6 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 6 of the summary amendment by 130 votes to 32 with 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/264/5. points 1 to 5 and 7 to 36 of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points listed in the summary amendment by 131 votes to 34, with 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/264/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 131 votes to 34, with 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws in relation to sports betting. Erik Bánki, Péter Cseresnyés and László Vécsey, members of the Fidesz Group, have a separate motion T/265. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/265/5. and the summary report is T/265/6. is also available on the website. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee submitted a single proposal, which was proposed by T/265/7. You can also get to know me from the website. Now it's time for the decisions. First, we will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/265/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/265/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes to 54, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for an additional amendment to the draft law on the further development of an institutional system to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system. The submission was made in T/262. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee's proposal for an additional summary amendment, presented in accordance with the derogation from the previously adopted house rule, is T/262/9. and the new summary report is T/262/10. The network was accessible to all of them. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee presented the added single proposal, which is T/262/11. It was also available to all of them from the website. We are now deciding on the amended amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/262/9. The proposal for an additional amendment is set out in Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended amendment with 150 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the essential provisions of the enhanced single proposal, Article 160 of the Treaty provides that: The adoption of paragraph 1 of § 1 requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. [[13.20]] In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/262/11. Number 160 added single proposal. Paragraph 1 of this Article. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] the provision of paragraph 1 of this Article. Please vote by two thirds of all present. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the part of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 151 votes in favour, 30 against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the part of the added single proposal that requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the simple majority of the added single proposal by 152 votes in favour, 30 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending individual laws in the context of government restructuring. The submission is T/263. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/263/6. T263/7. was available and is now available. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee submitted a single proposal, which was proposed by T/263/8. All of you know me from the website. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that point 25 of this concerns the fundamental provision of the bill, we will decide on the motion in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/263/6. Point 25 of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted point 25 of the summary amendment by 130 votes to 33 with 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now voting on the points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/263/6. points 1 to 24 and 26 to 36 of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 33 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote will now take place, which will once again take place in two instalments because of the fundamental provisions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/263/8. Single proposal No 86 The provisions of Section 5 of the Act. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament is the unified proposal 86. He accepted the part which required a qualified majority by 131 votes in favour, 54 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions that require a simple majority. I ask the honourable Parliament whether it accepts the provisions of the single proposal which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 130 votes in favour, 54 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a vote on the proposal for an amendment to the parliamentary decision proposal setting up an ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Constitutional Court and a final vote. The Speaker's motion to set up the ad hoc committee was tabled by Mr H/536. All of you could get to know him from the website. On the basis of what was said today at the House Committee's meeting, and in accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rule, no speeches will be made on the presentation and on the proposed amendment, and Parliament will decide on them without committee preparation and debate. Dear Parliament, We are therefore deciding on the proposed amendment. H/536/2. In the proposal No. 7 of the resolution proposal, József Tóbias and Bertalan Tóth, our MSZP fellow Members, initiate the amendment of point 7 of the resolution proposal to become candidates for the Constitutional Court, who has received the votes of at least seven committee members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 132 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the original text of the resolution proposal. I ask you with all due respect, do you accept H/536? A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 156 votes in favour, 4 against and 28 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on a personal proposal for officials and members of the ad hoc committee. The Speaker, on the basis of written indications submitted after today's meeting of the House Committee, withdraws his previous motion S/539. a new proposal has been tabled. In this he initiates the election of Mr György Rubovszky, the representatives of his vice-presidents Gergely Gulyás, Bertalan Tóth and Csaba Gyüre, and Mr György Balla, Márta Mátrai, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Mr Bence Tuzson and Mr András Schiffer. Dear Parliament, As said at the House Committee meeting, we decide on officials and members with one decision. Accordingly, I ask you whether S/539 is accepted. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 182 votes to none, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, I congratulate the officials and members of the ad hoc committee, and I wish the committee effective work. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/537. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this he initiates the election of Mr.László Varju as a member of the Committee of Parliament to replace our fellow Member, Csaba Molnár, as a member of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Mr László Varju as a member of the committee by 184 votes in favour, without voting against, with one abstention. I congratulate Mr László Varju on his election, and I wish to see an effective Commission work. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, The Speaker of Parliament is S/545. No. 1 made a personal proposal. In this he initiates that the Parliament elects Ms.Mónika Dunai as member of the committee to replace Zsolt Szabó, who was previously vacant in the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Mónika Dunai as a member of the committee by 186 votes in favour, without voting against or abstention. I congratulate Mrs Mónika Dunai, and I wish to congratulate her on an effective Commission work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]] Dear Parliament, I would like to give you two briefings. One is that there will still be a decision today. The other is that we have reached the end of this decision-making block. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break for all Members who are now leaving the Chamber in order to fulfil their urgent duties. Through the faction leaders, you will be informed when the remaining vote will take place. Thank you very much for your patience. [[It's a short break.]] I'd be happy to give you an interim briefing after I've gotten to know the next part of the script myself. There was no proposal to amend the bill amending individual laws in relation to the mandate and powers of the Minister of the Interior. Accordingly, the general debate will be held and then the vote will take place as soon as the general debate is concluded. Since, at the moment, it seems that many people are interested in speaking - based on the written statements - I consider that this is unlikely to happen within an hour. However, I respectfully ask everyone to remain within range so that they can come into the Chamber when necessary. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A general debate on the bill amending individual laws in relation to the mandate and powers of the Minister of the Interior will follow until closure. The submission is T/464. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Judicial Committee to conduct a detailed debate on this proposal, but I would also like to inform you that, in line with the agreed agenda items, as no amendment has been tabled, today the proposal will also be adopted in accordance with what we have already informed you. As soon as the general debate is closed, it will follow the decision. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who will give his speech in place within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-07-04-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] XX of 2014 on the list of ministries in Hungary After the entry into force of Act No 6 of 6 July 2014, the transfer of tasks to the government structure modified by the Parliament... [[It's constant noise.]]
u2014-07-04-94	Fellow Members! Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Members, pay tribute to the Secretary of State, as the secretary of state who described the expedition, to listen to it and to enable it to be heard by all. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. in the field of central administration, at the level of a government regulation. However, the precise definition of the tasks involved in the redeployment and the distinction between responsibilities in certain cases also require legislative amendments. The bill before you proposes the most necessary changes in the home affairs sector, which are as follows. The first is that government tasks related to protective oversight activities have been shared in the context of government restructuring. In the future, the Minister of the Interior will organise and manage protective custody activities related to the execution of sentences in the framework of his responsibility for the execution of sentences. The Minister of Justice, with the exception of those under the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, shall carry out the duties of government in relation to protective supervisory activities and shall prepare the legislation on protective supervisory activities. In the framework of the organizational transformation, patrons' supervisory activities will be managed by the Minister of the Interior, which relates to prisoners serving imprisonment and their reintegration into society after their release. Protective custody activities related to the execution of sentences, or protective supervisors carrying out such activities, shall be integrated into the prison organisation in order to perform their activities more effectively. On this basis, the probationary supervisory activities associated with the execution of sentences are considered as tasks related to the preparation of a probationary supervisory opinion in the context of conditional release, the statutory or ordered probationary supervision for the duration of conditional leave, the pre-release detention partying and the post-release care activities. The restructuring of the organisation makes it necessary to amend the Decree-Law on the enforcement of penalties and measures. This is due, on the one hand, to the cooperation between the enforcement bodies and the protective supervisors within a new organisational framework and, on the other hand, to the regulatory mandate granted to the government and the ministers concerned. At the same time, in the light of the new type of responsibilities, it is necessary to amend the law on the prison organisation and also the law on public service officials. This is due to the fact that probationary supervisors engaged in protective custody activities in connection with the execution of sentences will continue to be in government service, but the Public Service Officers Act currently contains provisions only for patron supervisors operating in the protective supervisory service of the judicial services. Part two: the Act on the Civil Registration Procedure establishes decision-making powers at ministerial level in a number of specific cases, such as name change cases. These powers are addressed to the Minister responsible for civil matters. However, the establishment of powers at the statutory level limits the government's freedom of restructuring on the one hand and the nature and importance of these powers do not justify decision-making at ministerial level in these matters. Therefore, this proposal would refer to the definition of the addressee of powers to the level of government regulation and would also lead the amendment to the legislation relating to the civil status procedure. [[13.40]] Part three: in order to avoid the need for subsequent legislative changes to the organisation of public employment, the Public Employment Act will also be amended to include a general description of the bodies acting under the law. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-07-04-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, and ask the Members before him to take their seats so that the image of Mr Vas Imre can be submitted on television. Thank you very much. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-07-04-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to say in just a few sentences the T/464 on the amendment of certain laws by the Minister of the Interior in relation to the tasks and powers of the Minister of the Interior. About bill No. 1. As is known before the Parliament, we have adopted the law on the listing of ministries, and in this context another law, which gave the government the power to reconstruct its own structure and to determine the tasks and powers of the members of the government in its original legislative powers. The government did this with the Government Decree 152/2014, creating the government's operating order. This is linked to the bill submitted by the Minister of Interior, which basically concerns three subjects, as Mr Secretary of State has said, but I would not wish to repeat specifically that the probationary supervisors will be transferred to the prison organisation; as far as the civil status procedure is concerned, Act I of 2010 contains several provisions which empower the Minister of Interior with the power of decision, which must also be regulated in a government decree, the duties of the Minister, the issues on which he can decide. The third question is that'91 IV. The amendment of Law 10, which refers to public employment as a means of reducing unemployment, and in this context it is necessary to amend the 2011 CVI. Law. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of these changes, you can see that the amendments to the laws initiated by the bill before us are necessary in the light of certain governmental tasks and powers that came to the Minister of the Interior. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-07-04-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dearly interested Citizens of Elections! This is the content of the law, in its form and in its trial, which you are performing here today, a joke, a clown, a disgrace to the Hungarian Parliament. [[Moore from the pro-government benches. Dr. Robert Répássy: From now on, it's a joke!]] For the Hungarian Parliament, it is a disgrace within the walls of this House. The Minister's exposé, which the Secretary of State said, should have covered one thing: they should have apologized to Parliament and apologized to the voters that three months after the parliamentary elections, one month after the announcement of a decree by you, the Chief Speaker of Fidesz, which has already arranged why the Ministry is responsible, and a few minutes after this Parliament just passed the law on the amendment of certain laws relating to the structure of government, where 54 different areas were packed here and there among the ministries, you presented a bill on behalf of BM that will continue to divide tasks between ministries, structures and ministries in the same field. It's a joke. Of course, the reason it's not funny is because you're touching the patronage supervisor service, for example, you're touching the registry administration, making changes to the community service program, while the bill doesn't reveal anything other than a few sentences moving these areas around. For example, you break up the probation services, leave half of them to the Ministry of Justice, and take the other half to the BM. I'd like to ask you exactly what tasks the Justice Department is going to carry out in prison, whether they will be given status, funding to the Bv institutions. Will the individual institutions carry out this task or will this task be carried out nationally at the national headquarters? What changes in labour law and what changes will affect people working in this area anyway? Perhaps that is what such a legislative proposal should be about here in Parliament, not just to move one of the tasks from one wallet to the other with one sentence. The other area that is affected by the proposal, once we get into the details, is the registrar's administration. This is a fantastic success story for you, because it was Act I of 2010 that directed this birth certificate administration at the time, with which you have done nothing for the past four years but put it off its entry into force for four years. Its entry into force was postponed until 1 July 2014, and according to reports from the press, we can see precisely that the new registry administration started the other day also collapsed on the first day. According to press reports, otherwise they created unworthy and humiliating human and family situations by not being able to issue a death certificate from the system itself, even after four years of procrastination. You will now install this area with this law, not to the Minister of the Interior, but to the State Administration that oversees it. We also see no details and guarantees of how this will work. Ladies and gentlemen, You can't do this! Of course, you can do anything, I know, because you've been authorized by the people and all that. The only thing is that this law would also be about the people you claim to represent and the people, and they would be humiliated by the fact that an hour ago it wasn't even possible to know if it would be on the agenda, not whether we would vote on it. To make them laugh and laugh, to talk to each other, and to my shame, the Speaker of the House has to tell me that the pro-government lead speaker is on TV, because I apologize, they're such jerks that they're still standing in front of him... [[Rushing from the pro-government benches. Dr. Károly Kontra: We refuse! Miklós Soltész: How to make video? Are you gonna record what you said? A statement from Fidesz: Why are you so confident?]]
u2014-07-04-100	Congressman, please choose your words.
u2014-07-04-101	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2014-07-04-102	Apply something that fits the walls of Parliament.
u2014-07-04-103	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I rescinded that. They're so rude, I'm sorry, even against each other. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: This road leads to 8 percent!]] And to viewers, you can't hear their own pro-government proposal. In this respect, I also felt sorry for Mr Kontra, because at least he read nicely what the apparatus described to him, and he could write about this law at all in about four minutes and 18 seconds. I would like to ask you, Mr.László Kövér, Speaker of the House, to begin his speech, the parliamentary operation, with which Prime Minister Viktor Orbán began, and with this Mr.Antal Rogán, Group leader, said that we will not see such legislative proposals in this term. Believe me, we do not say these things in the first place because it would not please us to vote in favour of a well-agreed law - it was an example very rarely, but there was an example - because people's lives are being transformed so that it can be seen on this law that they have no idea what the consequences will be. It is funny and ridiculous that you, with continuous governance and two-thirds government, will discover after three months what other areas will and will not be under the Ministry of the Interior. That after three months, someone would notice whether patronage supervision is now under BM or not. We are debating and adopting this law on the same day, when we have just voted in favour of the law on this matter. Who will be able to follow this, fellow Members and Honourable Government Party? Who's gonna be able to follow this? And if it turns out by September that they haven't noticed something, they'll be re-aligned by September? My fellow Members, we do not think that this is a good direction, apart from answering our professional questions not for us, but for the people concerned and the specialities concerned, which my fellow Members will be asking in their regular contributions, separately, in relation to the field. [[13.50]] Because it is possible to say here that you may already have paid for your holiday or whatever, and therefore you cannot hold a parliament next week, but tell us what would have prevented you from adopting and voting on the bill tabled this week in a regular timetable, even with a parliamentary session convened next week. I only tell the viewers to understand: until yesterday, it was not possible for Parliament and Members of Parliament to know that this law would be on the agenda at all. And from what I understand, and I'm guessing for the last 15 or 20 minutes, we didn't even know that we were going to vote on it today. Now, that's how much you appreciate this parliament, that's how much your constituents appreciate it. And it's very comical when you're talking about the authority of the Parliament, referring to Parliament's dress and other rules. The authority of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, begins with the fact that the President of the House and the majority of the government will not allow such a bill to be negotiated and will not allow it to negotiate in this way, let alone assist in these matters. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-07-04-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened sincerely to the words of my fellow MSZP Member. Although some points could have been agreed on, I would also like to clarify that this is something that can be voted on because there is no proposal for an amendment. So if you had tabled an amendment, then, around September-October, when the Parliament was convened, I would have known that a final vote could have been held. It is not my place to defend the governing parties, in many cases they are actually pouring proposals into the committees and in front of the House. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But there was a time to prepare for that. I have been able to consult, for example, with professional organisations and people working in the profession, although obviously, if there is more time for this, it is better, but it is not true that it could not be done at all. And the style is the man, and I think we're all gonna have to decide for ourselves, and I think it would have been better to talk about content. However, it is true - considering the proposal - that we would have expected a more detailed explanation. The Secretary of State Kontra has brought up the point and, of course, this can be succinctly stated, but the general explanation is two lines - and we are not talking about a motion by Members of Parliament, but a motion by the Minister of the Interior, but I very much ask that in the future the preparatory apparatus of the Ministry of the Interior be asked to provide the proposals with longer general explanations, especially if the Minister is his author. By the way, along with the detailed justification, this part of the law, its justification, does not make up the one page. And why is that important? Not only is it some kind of piss-poor about the justification, but we would have expected a lot of answers. Regardless of whether we can agree with the line, we would have expected an answer to how this was done, how it was implemented and implemented, in which general and detailed justifications would play a very important role. Unfortunately, I find this part, as I said, unsatisfactory. The fact that the organisation and management of patron supervision in the prison itself will depart from traditional patron supervision is, in my opinion, eligible, obviously we are talking about a special circle. And it's not from the devil to put this under the Ministry of the Interior, it's under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior to supervise and manage it. Another question, like I said, would be nice to see the details. It is also possible to agree that what will be included here in the law is that, after the release of the prisoners, they can be helped to establish themselves, to enter into employment, to continue their studies, so that if the institution and the traditional system of protective supervision, which is still in operation, is not a form of correspondence or notification, they can take direct action to help these people who are trying to rejoin themselves. I add very quickly, because we are often accused of being overly pro-police, that we would like those who want to reintegrate into society to receive the maximum and maximum support from the state. In many cases, we see that those who come out of prison and really want to fit back in deserve another chance. Another question is that there are many - and unfortunately, they are perhaps the majority - who do not necessarily want to adapt to society. In their case, a completely different method should be followed. By the way, in the case of the debate on the new Code of Correction, we have also said here in Parliament that the greater emphasis on reintegration is good, but we do not see the function of deterrence. So as long as one leg can be supported in itself, but today in Hungary, the more serious problem is that those who do not want to pursue a law-abiding lifestyle not only after their release, but also after their imprisonment, and do not want to comply with prison rules, in many cases the deterrent force cannot be sufficiently enforced. But I only put that in parentheses. But for those who need help, of course, let us give it to them. My question, I hope, is that Mr Secretary of State can answer whether there is any idea that the Ministry of the Interior can provide additional resources for this, which in many cases means additional human resources, plus recruitment and application of supporting supervisors. As far as I know, there have been major cuts in this sector recently, and after integration into government offices, many patrons have been laid off or have to work under tighter financial conditions. And the information I received from the people working in the Bv institution is that, unfortunately, every one or two months, some of them came every two months that the patron inspector was able to appear in these institutions. So unfortunately, at the moment, the operation of this system is not satisfactory, and not necessarily because patrons do not have the appropriate expertise, but simply do not win the job. And it is true that in a system in which a part of the Ministry of Interior is subordinate, as far as prison execution is concerned, the protective custody system would be expected to work more effectively. And I hope that Mr. Secretary of State will be able to reassure me that there will also be adequate financial resources for this. Unfortunately, while we are talking about the Bv system, I have to mention it again, and I have to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that prison guards' salaries and benefits are in many cases so low that they even make the job of a rural multi-company cashier competitive with the job of a prison guard. In many cases, when I visited Bv institutions, they told me on the spot. By the way, the Bv commanders also often have problems with what they hold back the stock - in a good way - because they are motivated when, say, a country teller may be in danger of less danger or less likely to be threatened by him or his family, which is unfortunately a daily practice for prison guards. If the Ministry of the Interior has any idea of that, then we would be very happy to hear this. And unfortunately, it must also be said, although the Minister of Interior said here in a previous speech that self-sustaining prisons were established, that is unfortunately not true in this form. It is true that there is indeed a greater number of prison work in the bv system, so efforts have been made, this must not be denied, but the system is still working for reward purposes. This is, of course, good in some cases, but we believe that people who do not necessarily want to work must also be employed. So for certain groups of perpetrators, work can be a punishment. [[14.00]] In fact, the most serious punishment for some is that if they have to work, it is even more serious that they are deprived of their personal freedom. Unfortunately, we cannot talk about self-sustaining prisons, but sooner or later we would expect the Ministry of the Interior to use the work as punishment. Another level of the bill is the issue of public work, where, although the law and the justification for it are narrow, it is stated at the principle level that public work can be used as a tool to reduce unemployment. This, of course, is not necessarily a devil's idea, but I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State how this will change the current system of public works. What are the plans of the Ministry in this regard, because if the organisation of public employment is not only done by the municipalities - I do not know whether it will be avoided from the municipalities - or if it will not be organised exclusively by the municipalities, then what can we expect in the future about this, what will be the government regulations that will be taken on this basis, if any. You obviously have some idea about that. In the end, I would also suggest that, if we are talking about public work and bv institutions in a law, the proposal to use public work to reintegrate those who have been released would, in my view, be eligible; think about this possibility. It should be mentioned here that there is a TÁMOP programme that aims to facilitate the reintegration of offenders and prisoners. That's half of it. The other half, on the other hand, that this system should be more effectively linked to the public work programme, could even have powers for bv judges to decide or, in some cases, an obligation to provide someone with employment opportunities, or even to lead them back to the labour market at the cost of some pressure, even in a limited way, because in the case of public works we cannot talk about a market relationship, but at least one such limited labour market. I believe that, if we get reassuring answers to these questions or at least agree with the line, we can support the proposal regardless, but I would add that this also depends on how the Ministry of Interior can implement this system. The direction may be good, but obviously we'll be hearing about it in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-07-04-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mrs Bernadett Szél. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, we have received a salad law to close the cycle, and I would like to comment specifically on point 4 of the cycle, because with a very short word modification, a whole new world image was drawn before us. It seems to you that you believe that it will be the duty of the government at all times to organise public employment and that the Ministry of the Interior will have a key role to play in this. Before I go into the details, I would like to state that this area has not just been transferred to the Ministry of the Interior; [[Dr. Kontra to Károly:]] basically based on a principle applied in the Horthy system, you received it already in 2012. It doesn't make any sense to me. I think you should be in NGM. The whole area should be an alloy of employment and social policy, and it would be very fortunate for a minister to be able to influence all of this. In addition, this whole thing has this very back-to-back bouquet that you are talking about an employment policy instrument that has been specifically put into criminal policy. You can see that. I'd like to avoid any personalities, but the whole system is under the control of Brigadier Generals and Firefighters, which is not cheap. It must therefore be seen that, when this was started, I believe that the budget expenditure was 64 billion, we are now at 230 billion in 2014. In addition, the effectiveness of the system is extremely low, and I will return to this later, but first I would like to tell you what my problem is with what is being written into the law. In practice, it is introduced into the law that the current government will be obliged to organise public work in order to reduce unemployment. I agree that public work as an opportunity is temporary, in areas where there is no other employer, it is good to have it. But what is going on in Hungary is a total amok run; so we have now come to the point that János Lázár, self-appointed employment politician, is going to tour rural Hungary, and he says that there will be full employment here in a few years, which he will identify, if I understand correctly, with 3 percent unemployment. I don't have a problem with that on my own. So I do not want to discuss the economic definition of full employment with you, but I have an absolute problem with the statement of John Lázár. This means that hundreds of thousands of people in this country are being sent to community service without creating jobs in this country. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: What do you want to talk about?]] My fellow Member! I'm talking about the law, T/464.; but press the button if you have questions. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] I therefore agree, Mr Secretary of State, that public work is a good opportunity, but it is a completely different concept, but I would like you to finally take it and interpret the figures as to the effectiveness of this public work programme, because if you would do so and interpret it, you would not submit a bill in which public employment as a means of reducing unemployment would be considered a tool in these conditions. Because my data, which I have at my disposal - and by the way, you obviously, and obviously, you have much more circumstantial data - shows me that 5 percent of the public workers are able to return to the open labour market. By the way, when you started to govern in the previous cycle, there was the Hungarian Labour Plan, which would have been a good basis for debate for me, and you said that the goal was to return public workers to the open labour market. You have also said that in ten years, new jobs will be created for taxpayers, not least. By the way, János Lázár replaced this - almost undetectedly - with the promise of full employment, adding that there will be full employment here in public employment, since there will be no other job creation. So that's when we have this community service programme, the budget of which is 230 billion, of which 5 percent of people can return to the open labour market, 60 percent are stuck in the program, and the others are re-enacted. We are talking about people who are invisible to those who offer jobs, so these people who are in public employment really disappear from the part of the statistics that is embarrassing to the government. But the problem does not go away. In fact, as the years go by, and you continue to push this program forward, and apparently now you're going to legislate that it will be mandatory to organise it, even deceiving yourself that it would be suitable for the employment crisis that is in this country and unbroken - and you've already been given two-thirds - to ease it, that is a completely amazing concept. As long as I'm here in Parliament, I'll always tell you that you're simply pouring water, throwing money out a window. There will never be a programme that can achieve the goal of having people in this country in a decent employment situation, and that would require a job creation programme, but you do not do that. In addition, with this law, they will ensure that this completely schizophrenic condition of this whole program is maintained. You now also acknowledge that you know this tool, public employment, is a service that people who do not have a job, but are in a place where they launch a public work programme. But from now on, the public servant, as such, has not employed you, but a client, or a job seeker. From now on, I would consider it an infinitely pragmatic - I risk it: fair - attitude if you were to express your views on the current Hungarian labour market situation on the basis of statistics in which public workers are not counted as employees, but as job seekers. After all, your purpose in declaring yourself was to help these people, who are now public workers, and now we are talking about 200,000 people a year, back to the labour market and put them in decent conditions. Now, with the money these people get, there will never be decent living conditions in these situations. You can't make a living out of 50,000 and 60,000 forints. Quite simply - you see, 60 percent of people are stuck in the program - from here on we are talking about a dead end and a trap, in which you are now keeping a significant part of Hungary with new legislative amendments; it is a crowd of people. Where you have promises. [[14.10]] For example, the introduction of a customer-categorisation system, which would otherwise be a very progressive solution, would finally look at individuals, provide individual life situations, individualised solutions. Right now, as I see it, by 2016, they promised that this would be introduced. I'm telling you, it would be easier for me to have a department working here, but I'd like to know that I can see that the public employment program is getting a lot of ammunition here, but I'd like to know that these plans haven't been given up, right? Aren't the active tools going to be cut off completely, and they're not going to send the whole country to community service, who doesn't have a market job, but they're going to have the right to have active tools specifically designed to help people back into market work? Not to mention - and I'm concerned about that, too, and I know that I have nothing to do with it because it will be a government decree, but let me just say that I am also very concerned about the fact that you want to introduce open-ended contracts in public work. This may look good at first hearing, because if you are very poor and you have nothing, then it sounds so promising that you can spend a long time in community service and at least have that small secure income. But it is not intended for Hungary to keep hundreds of thousands of people in public work with permanent public contracts, while there is no job creation in the market, and practically only the figures shown by statistics have shown any progress, and of course you have, when speaking in government propaganda? And I would also like to draw your attention to a study by the honourable Secretary of State, because I think you should know this, and I would like this to be dealt with in substance in the Ministry. The title of the research is "The Way to Market Work, " made in the framework of TÁMOP 1.4.3, and compiled by expert civilians. It contains proposals on how to manage this mass size of public employment a little bit, this mass itself, more circumstantially. I think if you read this and considered it, it would change the quality of public employment a little bit. To put it simply, it is not a homogeneous mass that you consider public employment, but you acknowledge the fact that there are a wide variety of people in public employment who come from a wide variety of individual living conditions and need different levels of and different quality of assistance. On this basis, it distinguishes four groups and proposes four types of solutions to the type of public work: transit, conditioning, social and incubation public work. Names speak for themselves. Transit helps people who are relatively few to find their way back, who provide conditioning training, and social aid to our most difficult people, and so on. I think you would be very fortunate, Mr Secretary of State, in addition to the fact that you are now getting more and more power in the field of public work here in the internal affairs if you try to see these people a little bit. To see the people who work as public workers in this country today, to notice that it is not a kind of person, and they would try to, if they had so much money and more money, to help these people get along a little bit more nuanced. I think that this would certainly be good, because - to put it this way - perhaps even the numbers would improve, perhaps a little more than 5 percent could return to the open labour market. The other is that when you started to govern four years ago, you even promised us that you would create social cooperatives. They had a plan to keep the support down, and in the end, the program will become self-sustaining. What I'm seeing is that they're constantly pushing money into this program, so let alone not moving towards self-sustaining, but they're actually asking taxpayers for more money to maintain this program. Obviously, they will never receive money from EU funds, and the Commission has also expressed its criticism. I'm not going to tell you this now because you're going to tell me again, I don't know, I'm going to get some freedom fighter text from you in response, but I'm sure you know what the Commission thinks of this programme. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you will not be able to do this in the long run. János Lázár may be able to travel around Hungary a few more times and he can say that there will be full employment here, but I would like them to remember that the Hungarian people did not vote for you in order to increase the number of public workers among them. You had a promise four years ago, you said that in ten years, a million new jobs and taxpayers. I think it would be advisable to start on this road, because what you've started doing a few months ago with this full employment, it's an undetected replacement of the slogan, and what I see is that you're constantly strengthening this program in internal affairs, it's more than worrying to me. So this is certainly not going to be a renewable Hungary. This is the other thing I would like to say to you in closing, that the May Other Politics had a programme that included us in Parliament, the renewable Hungary's programme, and in this there are a lot of proposals that can be specifically financed financially, because we have calculated this, and in addition it is able to create crisis-resistant jobs, but not least, we have promised voters more than 400 thousand jobs in the event that, let's say, we are in government. If that happens, we will work on it, but as long as we are in opposition in Parliament, I would like to lobby so that you can at least hear what opportunities there are in these. Obviously, it is not for the Ministry of Interior to address what I have to say about this, because you do not yet have the green job creation programme, but I would like you to see, Mr. Secretary of State, that by getting more and more money for this public employment and explaining their numbers on more and more forums, it seems undetected that... They may be able to make people believe that things are going well here in employment, but if they don't start developing in the green economy, they will strengthen the local economy - and I would particularly call your attention to that, because they had some promises about it - and they will never be able to make a breakthrough in this country. That may not be your goal, but four years ago, they had a promise: in ten years, one million new jobs, which is not what this law is about. This law, these few words that have been written in it, is about how you settle for less and less, you actually gave up this fight. What I see is that Fidesz has seen that with the frameworks in which the Fidesz is moving, and obviously this includes the bankruptcy that you are dealing with economic policy, this includes the lack of prospects that your background oligarchs expect you to have, and you obviously have to serve it, but you are in such a way that you cannot renew this country. You can assure the Hungarian people that they can give public service in exchange for billions of forints, more and more, and there is the Ministry of the Interior, which will certainly be able to organise this professionally. Dear Secretary of State, This government is not authorized to do this. I would like to remind you that once this was different, four years ago you thought differently about this issue. And I would like to ask you whether this amendment, which has now been incorporated into the law, will result in any organizational change in the Ministry of the Interior, or will continue the practice of the past four years, or if there is a chance that at least the conclusions of the TÁMOP programme entitled "The Way to Market Work" will be used and a little modification of the organisation of public employment, a little attention to people, Hungarian people, our poorest fellow citizens. Thank you.
u2014-07-04-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. According to the decision-making rules, it would now be possible for the first independent Member to speak within a 15-minute framework. Unfortunately, they are not sufficiently interested in this, as no independent Members are present in the Chamber, so there is no way to speak. We would now have two-minute speeches if we had two-minute speakers, but since we do not, we will continue with the speeches. Mr Gergely Bárándy is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, has already made the general comments on the bill, and I will not repeat them, but I would point out that I very much agree that the list of legislative proposals tabled and negotiated in this way should be omitted at least from the next session or done differently. What I would like to say is the transfer of part of the probationary duties from the Justice Department to the Ministry of the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that, and unfortunately, for a long time now, you have tended to follow the notion that crime and crime prevention are, in themselves, a matter of law enforcement and nothing more. [[14.20]] There is nothing more to this than the fact that all the powers relating not only to crime but also to crime prevention, or let me say that the most important ones are shifted tenentically from the judicial wallet to the internal affairs wallet. I understand that Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, is the man in the government who can actually solve things, and I also acknowledge that he has more success in any field than other ministers in the government, but I do not think that is a reason to make conceptual changes, because on this basis - of course, this is also a slightly excessive statement - agricultural issues could also be transferred to the Ministry of Interior, in case the Minister will be able to handle them more effectively than the Minister of Agriculture. Although it is also added that, under their new draft and the law adopted today, this will be dealt with mainly by the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, not by the Minister in charge of agricultural affairs. So I do not wish to open this debate any further, perhaps just one more thought on this. And before anyone gets the wrong idea, leaving these areas at justice would not be a reduction in penalties or rules, but rather a promotion of efficiency because of a different approach. As far as I'm concerned, the prison sentence should be served in a soldier's order. The fact that the Ministry of Interior oversees the execution in general, I don't even have a lot of problems with that, I'm saying that it can be here and there, and I can identify with that in itself. However, I would like to highlight and stress that, although it may be structurally, in some approaches, reintegration, after-care is part of the prison process, but I think it requires a very different approach. A very different approach is required when a person is in prison, and the retributive nature of criminal law should indeed, if you like it, come to the fore; whereas, in a case where this punishment has already been filled, stood up and rejoined into society, I believe that it is not a prison executioner, or should I say, an internal approach to how a former criminal will be integrated into society. I think that the judicial portfolio can monitor and manage this on a significantly more efficient and substantially different basis. As I said in the debate on the law on government restructuring, among other things - and now I say the criticism of our own system, I said then, even at that time - it is not right that, let's say, the wallet of justice and law enforcement be concentrated in one hand. It is not right because it requires two types of approach: it requires two types of people and politicians: while in the area of law enforcement, an operational, hard-handed person is needed, in the area of justice, a more emotional, deeper, professor-type person. I think this is an exact indication of why there is a need or a need for the supervision of the protective supervisory services to remain fully in the judicial wallet and not to be transferred to the prison system. What I would like to ask the Secretary of State, however, as a concrete question, is that this bill does not contain the detailed rules as you intend to resolve this transfer. Obviously, they have a plan, or - I say as opposition representatives that I can sincerely hope because I have no knowledge of it - I sincerely hope that they have a plan on how this will be done in practice. You're taking these people, aren't you going to take them? Are you taking the people from the Ministry of Interior who had previously supervised this activity, or are you looking for new staff? If these are taken over, it is a step better, because they will at least continue with the attitude that has so far marked this area. Many of these and similar issues arise from the provision of material conditions through personal questions. I would be sincerely grateful to the Secretary of State if you could give me a little more information about this, because I assume that if this law is here and this law will enter into force at this speed, so quickly as it is written in it, then obviously the relevant regulation - let me not talk about the usual impact assessment and associates - has been prepared by you or at least in preparation. And in order to be able to debate this in substance between the walls of this House, I think this information would be necessary. Allow me to conclude by saying one thing, my fellow Members, about the voice of Jobbik's representative. It seemed to me at some moments that I was looking the wrong way, and I should be looking towards the pro-government benches, because the style and tone of his speech supported this; for example, when he said that he did not understand our concerns about the fact that this draft law came before the House at such a speed, we were discussing it in such special proceedings, not in the normal course of time, and why we did not submit amendments to him, this could have prevented the House from discussing it differently. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I'm sure you'll read the minutes, because you're not in this Chamber right now. I can say that a person, at least our group, is submitting amendments if it has some kind of principle if we want to achieve something. For the purpose of stalling, I think it is wrong for a person to submit amendments. We have made it quite clear, in all the legislative proposals of a similar nature, that, of course, we are giving our critical remarks on government formation, but we believe that it is not up to the opposition to establish a governance structure, but it is up to the government. The criticism of the government referral is natural, but it is natural for us to suggest how the government does it, but I think it is unnatural. It follows, however, that this principle should have been discarded in order for us to present amendments to such a proposal for a mere delay. So, ladies and gentlemen, that is why the criticism that our party's leading speaker has said is just as good as it is with regard to previous legislative proposals. In conclusion, Mr State Secretary, I would ask, as usual - let me say this - that, if possible, if you answer these questions that I have asked you, do not do in the closing words, so that there is still a point to the debate in Parliament and that we can debate about them. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Sebestyén, who edits, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If you have reached out to our group, my fellow Member Barondy, I would like to respond to him that when I looked to the right when he spoke to your lead speaker, I could not decide whether I was in the Chamber or in a kindergarten where someone's game was stolen, and because of that he would have a hysterical attack. And from this point on, you can twist it with legal terms that you would have submitted an amendment or not, a matter of principle, a question of practice, and so on. If there was no amendment, then why is it wrong that it will take place in a week; by the way, a little twisting the truth, not a day before we learned it, but I, as a non-jurist's representative, knew much sooner that we were going to negotiate this bill today. Returning to the proposal itself, I have a few professional comments and professional questions to the Secretary of State, because, as I have said here several times, I had a part of my life when I worked as a probationary supervisor in Komárom-Esztergom County for years. That is why I am pleased with this proposal, and I hope that what I am thinking is behind it, and I would like to have an answer from the Secretary of State on whether that is what is behind it. But first, I would like to ask you the other questions that others have already mentioned, others have mentioned, and this is a question of capacity. When it came to the amendment of the prison law, it was also mentioned that there would probably be a stock increase in patronage supervision, but how they're going to do that would be of interest to me. For these special tasks, which have now been taken over by the Ministry of the Interior - some have already asked - will they hopefully do the old, even multi-annual, probationive inspectors? Because if you look at the tasks, this is the area that requires a great deal of experience and work experience, you need to know the personality of the convicts, you need to know the prisoners, you need to know the prison conditions, you need to know the reintegration processes, not only from the outside, but also as an active participant in them. [[14.30]] So my question is whether there will be enlargement, if there will be enlargement, in what form, and I hope that they will not assign the newly hired patrons to these serious posts. My question is whether restructuring will bring about a change of perspective. What my fellow Member Bárándy has said is that he is concerned that some of the patrons are going to the Ministry of the Interior, and I can rather welcome that, because within the patron's supervision, it does not matter what tasks we are talking about. There are those tasks, such as, for example, for minors patrons or for those receiving protective custody for a minor crime, either in the event of a reprimand or even in the case of a trial, it is possible that the social approach should emerge in the work of a patron inspector. However, the areas that the Ministry of Interior is now taking over are areas where a civil enforcement approach is more necessary in the field of protective custody. When I saw this proposal, I hoped that the patronage supervision would finally go off the liberal path designated by Katalin Kerezsi and Gönczöl and finally move into its actual function, that is to say, sometimes with sanctions, sometimes hard, but sometimes using the tools of the assisting profession, these people will be reintegrated into society. Because the whole social approach that was typical of the past and when I worked for the patrons' supervision - this was during the MSZP-SZDSZ administration - was wrong. It was also wrong because, because of this liberal approach, it was very rare for the patron inspector to propose a change of sentence or termination of conditional leave. This was a deplorable condition, because it was the patron's supervisor who, on a daily basis, found that the prisoner, the individual, was charged with the rules of conduct imposed on him, whether he was cooperating with the patron's supervision, or whether he was living a way of life under which he was granted conditional leave. So I can welcome this, if that actually means we're going in this direction. It may not be possible to move one step towards what is typical, say, in the United States, where patrons have much greater powers, scope and much greater sanctioning potential, but I believe that in the areas that are now transferred to the Ministry of Home Affairs, in these areas of patron supervision, this approach does, indeed, this sanction system and these opportunities are needed by the patron supervisors working there. I'd like to respond to one more thing that Wind Bernadett said about public employment. He mentioned social cooperatives. Social cooperatives should not be harmed so much, because this would be a well-functioning system. It is one thing to use the money as a paying place, in many cases, the government and non-functioning social cooperatives are pumping money, but we can also see social cooperatives operating with small state aid, slowly reaching the level of self-sufficiency and even the level of self-sustaining capacity to make their entire settlements self-sustainable. One very good example is Békésszentandrás, where Mayor Imre Sinka does this very well and modelly. So let's not put all the social cooperatives that are supported on the same page, but let's say that this is mainly about social cooperatives that have become paying places for the state and the government. That's what I wanted to ask you briefly. I trust that this amendment will actually start these changes, and at last from the liberal patron supervisory approach - once again I apologize to András Schiffer for using this word - I see that it is sensitive to this - let us move on to the road where it should be, to the social approach, to the social worker affinity and work in this area, but where necessary, let us put a staff in the hands of the probation worker, so that he can palle even the convicted. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-07-04-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Schiffer is now coming to a proper speech.
u2014-07-04-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would just like to say - I would reply to my fellow Member, not Mr Sebestyén, despite all the preliminary expectations - that the government's placement of the protective surveillance system cannot be disrupted. And the fact that the probation system and, by the way, the execution itself had traditionally been in the judicial wallet had its reasons. Because there is a logical reason why the Ministry of Interior's competence ends where the criminal court otherwise carries out the sentence. Everything else that happens after the criminal court has passed a final judgment or has taken any decision and must be enforced is part of the justice system. It's not a matter of law enforcement, it's a matter of custody, as I believe, that the transfer of the execution itself to the internal affairs wallet is a mistake. It's not a matter of law enforcement, it's a matter of justice, just as victim support should be a matter of justice. And the fact that certain functions are left at the judicial wallet and other functions are installed at the home affairs wallet has no reasonable reason in the world. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-114	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Part of what I wanted to say, my fellow Member Schiffer said, I wouldn't extend it to any longer. I would like to say, in reply to Mr Cutter, that we have a different opinion from a professional point of view on patronage supervision. There is one, and none of us will possibly convince the other of his own truth. I certainly appreciate, in my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, that, in any case, he knows the subject, but he has a different professional position. What I would like to say to him, however, is why it is wrong that we are discussing legislative proposals at this speed, and I will not explain it in detail, especially in two minutes, but I think that if you ask, say, György Szilágyi's fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó's fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre's fellow Member, or even Gábor Staudt's fellow Member, you will be able to say this to you, because you have spoken on this subject on many occasions, by the way, representing the same opinion, whether at the meeting of the Legislative Committee or here in plenary. But if they can't explain why this is a major problem, then I will be happy to do it. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind is next. Here you go.
u2014-07-04-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although many people here are already accusing me of hyperactivity [[Noise on the pro-government side. "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But for the record, I'd like to state...
u2014-07-04-118	My fellow Members, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, has the floor.
u2014-07-04-119	.......................................................................................................................................... I do not have any problem with social cooperatives at all, my dear fellow Member, nor do I miss the fact that there is no comprehensive amendment to the law that Fidesz has been deceiving us for years now, to do it, which would allow public work to be some way into the open labour market, which would lead public workers back to it. Well, that's what I don't have. Instead, there is a new law that strengthens the power of the Ministry of the Interior, money, steed, weapon, everything goes there, and in the meantime, the steps that are essential to make people's prosperity and the welfare of public workers in Hungary a reality. Besides, take a look at the LMP programme, we also do a lot of local economic development in the "Renewing Hungary" programme, and one of the cornerstones of it is that we start a cooperative program, develop cooperatives, and even fund LMP. We don't feel sorry for the money, but we feel very sorry for the money from nuclear power plants.
u2014-07-04-120	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A proper speech will come from the MSZP Group, Mr Nándor Gúr. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél was just talking about the importance of social cooperatives, not unwarranted; it is not unfounded and legitimate. You have rightly stated that you have said something in this regard, that you have promised something in this regard, and that this story has come to nothing. I am only saying this introductory sentence because I think that if only so many mistakes had been made, then perhaps this would still be manageable, although I think it is a big problem, but it would be manageable. But no! [[14.40]] You have made far, far more mistakes in recent times. In line with the trial of this law, we can basically split it into four slices. I would like to focus on the issue of public employment and public work. I would like to say to you, in my first words, that when anyone, a member of any faction, says that it is shameful, it is shameful, it is with any adjectives that the way this bill is drawn together, I cannot argue with them very much. I can at most soften this issue, and if I want to soften it up a lot, then I'm saying that it's not very fortunate, the way this is happening in the last few days. I must say that in the context of the preparation of the draft law, as regards issues relating to public employment, I do not find it fortunate to see the kind of redeployment process that is pushing this story from practically the hands of the labour market network to the Ministry of Interior. You know, on the basis of my personal judgement, but I think even on the basis of the value judgment of some of the representatives on the government side, I can say with a calm spirit that you have managed to crush a network, a labour market network, in the last four years, that would have been productively able to help shape real labour market processes. Unfortunately, the process that you have done in this regard over the past few years has not helped, but destroyed, the development of these processes. [[There's always a lot of noise, the president's ringing.]] I have to say that crushing that network is not a product, not a result, but rather a negative one. But there is also much to mention in terms of content matters, but I do not want to discuss this very deeply. It is unacceptable to me in the form in which you intend to grind this law. Rather, I would like to talk about what it is about to find a solution on the subject of public employment in relation to the reduction of unemployment. Look, fellow Members. In itself, you want to put into oblivion everything you have said about your election promises, you know, remember them, or if you don't, I have to tell you again and again: you have talked about creating a million new jobs in the economy - Fidesz programme, page 17, through small businesses. You have to look at it, you have to identify with it, and you have to do something about it. It is not the country of the public workers that should be brought to life; it is not the people who are fired from the public sector that must be employed through the system of public employment or public work for hunger - no, no! Fellow Members! It would be your job and your responsibility...
u2014-07-04-122	Excuse me, Congressman, I'm interrupting for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, Please listen to the speech, because if there is such a loud debate in Parliament, it is unlikely that the thoughts that the Member considers important will get to your ears. Accordingly, they will not be able to respond in the debate. Mr. Congressman, please pay attention.
u2014-07-04-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am honoured that you consider it important in this regard to be inclusive, but the personal responsibility of my fellow Members is clearly how and how they relate to these issues. Not only do we have to press a button between the walls of Parliament, but, in a sense, we all need to be able to think about what the processes of change that we enforce through legal approvals bring with them. So, back to the story. You know, in terms of public employment, if you think a little more deeply about what has been called to life in recent years, you will obviously face the fact that you created a situation where, say, four years ago, the public worker could go home with HUF 60 200 in his pocket, and today the HUF 51,000 that you can put in your pocket after eight hours of employment is worth approximately HUF 42,000. So it's basically the result of your four-year government that a third of the public-employed man's money in his pocket has been lost in purchasing power. Neither would my fellow Member, Mr János Fónagy, or Secretary of State, who used to be, for example, President of the Labour Council in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. You can't be too proud of it, because you see the process, along with many others, that it becomes even more difficult for you in that sphere, in the very people where living is not easy anyway. I think you should start thinking more in this direction about how and how you are providing a helping hand and how and how the processes are being reorganized, whether from the direction of the Ministry of National Economy to the Ministry of Interior or in other respects. And, you know, it would also be worth considering what working conditions people who do their work within the framework of this public employment should do. I do not wish to go into details, but you also know a number of details that are not accompanied by ensuring that the most basic needs are met. But it would also be worth examining whether a public employment based on l'art pour l'art was called into existence only to " improve" indicators through statistics, or to add value to the content. So I have to say, unfortunately, that it is not the dominant, not the majority, where the work tasks combined with value creation appear, but also the stories based on l'art pour l'art, and also the types of training in winter public employment, where you know how to draw suns, clouds and others. I have to say that the kind of activity they carry on in this respect is irresponsible, with the use of HUF 183-184 billion, along with the addition of HUF 47 billion to a new government resolution, all the results of which can be at least debated, unfortunately, by the use of more than HUF 230 billion. And so the success from the other side, or the inefficiencies, is that these people who live on the stage of public employment have a maximum of 3-6 percent of those who are able to re-enter the labour market in some form. And, then, if we make active employment policy comparisons and employment policy comparisons that are deemed to be quasi-active, it is also worth showing that when around HUF 10-12 billion is spent on job creation for micro- and small businesses through the Labour Market Fund, they invest HUF 230 billion in public employment, 20 times that amount, and I have tried to show where they got from the success side of the above. You know, this money is about the same magnitude as if, if I have just addressed Mr. Secretary of State Fó Nagy, I also approach it through a professional platform, say, in terms of MÁV, there are about 180 kilometres between Miskolc and Budapest. I don't know if the sleeper trees are laid at about a meter or even 80 centimeters, well, I'd have to say that every foot tree is worth a million forints by the time we get up from Miskolc to Budapest, the IC comes for two hours, every foot is worth a million forints. Well, that's what you spend on public employment, and unfortunately, most of it is used as wasted money, not as used forints. You know, that's why it's weird when János Lázár and other political actors talk about how they're going to solve Hungary's unemployment through public employment. On the statistical side, they can solve it, they have also sought to deceive people, make people vulnerable and deceive people, but they cannot solve the problem. Two hundred thousand public workers in the winter period, you now know that this is the deception of the people, this was not the real task of creating tangible value. While we can see that in three months there are municipal elections, it is not random, or rather I say that based on your philosophy, it is legal to add 47 billion forints to the resources that can be used for public employment. I must say that I think this act is a waste because you are driven only by your political interests in this regard, and it is certainly not about making a positive change for the people. They are doing giga-public employment only to ensure that their political interests prevail and are able to properly cosmetically. The Commissioner of the European Commission, László Andor, has also said, and many others have said that it would be worth examining the social and economic usefulness of public employment. It would be worth it to you, too, because then you'd realize how useless and harmful everything you're doing in some sense. [[14.50]] It's not that they give people public employment, no. The way they do it, and under the conditions they do it, without making an assessment of its effectiveness. Or I could talk about what you really want. Do you want to improve statistics or change the situation? I'm convinced you're not interested in these people. I have to say, you want to change the statistics, and turning their situation in a positive direction is of no concern to you. Because if you were interested, they would be interested in making more money than 42,000 forints compared to 2010. What you would be interested to know is that the minimum wage or the minimum wage for public employment should not be reduced compared to the minimum wage, but the scissors should close year by year. You know, the difference is today in Hungary, just to be clear and clear, while in 2010 the person who pocketed 60 200 HUF made less money than the minimum living cost was then, by about 17,000 HUF, until now this is the case with a minimum of 88,000 HUF the purchasing power value of this public employee's wage converted to 2010 is 42 thousand HUF. Do you know the difference between the two? 46,000 forints. The only reason I'm telling you is so you don't have to count, so they don't force themselves. But if you no longer have counted, but you have the information that this difference has come to you, then you must also ensure that you have the responsibility and the task to do in this respect. It is not to strive to make changes that lead public employment only towards the Ministry of the Interior. Real employment must be done, fellow Members. Real, something that is somewhat, at least somewhat in sync with their promises. Something about what you promised to do and what you promised to do during the election period of 2010. What was about creating one million new jobs, and one that is born in the economy and not creating the country of the public workers, and also in such a way that the civil servant, the fired civil servant, will work as a public employee. It is therefore your job to rearrange the labour market in this regard. No, not by putting public employment under the care of the Ministry of Interior, but by providing people with decent working conditions, opportunities and working conditions. In such a way that the authorities are asked not to order, as is the case with their respective minister on the media, but to ask them to carry out their official duties in the interest of the people, so that they can carry out all that is consistent with their daily work under appropriate conditions in terms of their working conditions. And they should also ensure that people, especially people with low incomes, have living conditions such as minimum wage, public employment, which give minimum livelihoods. You know, the one that brings income positions to the minimum. Because you and Viktor Orbán need to see that these are the money, this minimum wage in the public sector, and the minimum wage, from which you can't earn a decent living or support families, especially when you move forward in time, and these money is worth even less than the current minimum of living. So if you have a responsibility, if you have to start thinking and acting for some reason, it is especially that those in the middle, those in the middle, and those in the middle, and those in the middle, and people who earn less from it, provide them with conditions that give them the basis and minimum of a normal living. That is what should be done, and not bombing the House with such laws, creating this situation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-124	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-07-04-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to respond to the comments of Congressman Tamás Harangozó. I think the bill was filed according to house rules last week. If you wanted to, you would have been able to prepare yourself, and I would have once again rejected your voice of anger in which you insulted the group. I can't even accept that you think it's outrageous that you have to work in Parliament on Friday afternoon. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Let's renegotiate next week.]] I believe that in agriculture, where they harvest today, they harvest the autumn barley and wheat, or the livestock workers who work from 1 January to 31 December every day of the year, I believe that we, as Members, can be expected to make the situation so, then also be available on Friday afternoon. I would like to say this to Congressman Gábor Staudt. He says that the current protective oversight system is not satisfactory in terms of operation. I agree, and that is why we are changing it, and that is why we have tabled this proposal. A professional career model will be a solution for the prison guards' salary. We also trust that we can improve wages for those working in this area. I thank Congresswoman Bernadett Szél for her contribution. He made his point about public employment. I would like to say that the system of public employment has been good in recent years, but to make it even more effective, more successful, we have tabled the proposal. We consider your fears about social cooperatives to be unjustified. I fully agree with Mr Gergely Bárándy's statement that the creation of a governance structure is the opportunity and responsibility of the governing parties. And I think it's fair that the only reason they're not putting in an amendment is because they're stalling. Thank you very much for this position. I would like to thank Mr Sebestyén Editor for his contribution. I trust that the system of protective supervision that will be put in place after the adoption of this bill will be more effective than the previous one. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Members who have spoken for their support, and I trust that this bill will also achieve its objective, and I ask that you also support it with your votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. As there was no proposal for an amendment to the presentation until the beginning of the debate on the item on the agenda, at the government's initiative, the resolution House Rule 67. The final vote will now take place within the meaning of Article 5 of the Treaty. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/464 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the mandate and powers of the Minister of the Interior. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 124 votes in favour, 17 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decision. We'll continue our work. I would like to ask my fellow Members who are now leaving the Chamber to do so as quietly as possible. In the meantime, I'm ordering a two-minute break. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and to give the chair to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. Thank you. [[It's a short break.]] [[15.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the meantime, until Mr. Vice President arrives to resolve the pressing need, we will begin and continue our work. The 2011 CXCIX on public service officials follows. Act XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Gergely Tapolczai and Zsolt Nyitrai's own motion by our Fidesz fellow Members T/463. Number 2 is available on the network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Judicial Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai in a 30-minute time frame and give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. Thank you very much. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2014-07-04-127	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. I think that a very important proposal could thus be included in the final moments of this session, namely, this proposal serves to introduce a sign language bonus in the public sector. This proposal has a public record, and these precedents arose during the election campaign, when representatives of Fidesz and KDNP promised that if voters can re-establish government, this sign language allowance will be introduced in the public sector. Of course, we have made this proposal by consulting stakeholders, because we have always considered it important for our fellow countrymen with disabilities to be given more attention and, if possible, the decisions that affect them to be taken with their involvement. This is why Gergely Tapolczai, who will also share his thoughts with you in sign language, has always paid attention to this issue, and Ádám Kósa is our fellow Member in the European Parliament. Both of them wrote history, because Gergely Tapolczai spoke first in the Hungarian Parliament in sign language, and Ádám Kósa in the European Parliament. Let us not forget about our fellow Member, Ferenc Hirt, who is the first member of the Hungarian Parliament in a wheelchair. We also had another proposal in this segment in the election campaign, and although this is not the subject of this current amendment, let me briefly mention this, because I hope that we will be able to report on this too soon or in this field as well. This is the launch of sensitive training at the National University of Public Service for prospective public servants. Well, on the basis of the specifics of this proposal, on the basis of the model of the foreign language bonus, it is proposed that public sector workers, if they learn sign language, should have the opportunity to receive a sign language supplement. Obviously, this proposal aims at making public administration more accessible, and the target group that can be the winner of this after the amendment is about a 70 000 target group in today's Hungary, as there are about 10,000 deaf compatriots and over 60 thousand of our dead countrymen living in the country. If this is accepted by the Honourable Parliament, the result of this proposal will be one that is unique in Europe, since Hungary will now have the opportunity to adopt the proposal to introduce this sign language supplement for the first time in the public sector in Europe. I very much hope that, like the other elements of the Hungarian model, other European countries will be able to introduce this proposal by showing a pattern. The sign language supplement itself in the public sector goes or goes according to our proposal if sign language knowledge is necessary to fulfil the job. It affects both government officials and civil servants, and, like the foreign language bonus, it also links the degree of learning sign language to the level of remuneration and compensation for workers in this respect. I think that we have had all the preliminary discussions on this, and I am sure that this is a well-intentioned and forward-looking proposal. I would like to thank everyone at this point who has been involved in the drafting and preparation of the proposal, and I hope that a consensus can be reached between the Members of Parliament on this issue. Thank you for your attention, and we ask for your support in order to introduce the sign language bonus in the public sector in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-07-04-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. Yes, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2014-07-04-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Member of the Council, The government supports the bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I will give the floor to Mr Gergely Tapolczai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will present his speech using a sign interpreter. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-131	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I also mentioned during the previous term that I would have the opportunity to speak about the lead speaker's stand, but for various technical reasons I would rather stay in my seat and tell you from here that the interpreters can better translate and see me better. But I think that is not the point, but the proposal before us, which settles the issue of sign language substitution. This bill is actually the result of a longer process, a new stage in a longer process. Now I could give an interesting lecture on the development, development of sign language or the development of sign language education, but that is not our topic. I would like to go back to a closer date in 1998, when Parliament adopted a law on the rights of people with disabilities and ensuring their equal opportunities. On this basis, the national disability programme has been developed and, on this basis, interpretation services have been set up at national level since 2003. Since then, there have been regular sign language translation services in the country. The next stage was the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The UN Convention recognises sign language, recognises the right to use sign language and recognises the community of sign language users, deaf people and hearers. [[15.10]] It encourages States Parties to do their best to ensure the rights of people with disabilities in all areas of life, so as to ensure equal access, accessibility in both physical and infocommunication areas. The Parliament then adopted in 2009 the Act on Hungarian Sign Language and the Use of Hungarian Sign Language. This confirms and acknowledges the Hungarian sign language, recognises the Hungarian sign language as the language of the deaf community, and recognizes the deaf community as a minority, and recognizes the Hungarian sign language as an independent natural language. The Sign Language Act states that deaf and blind persons are equal and equal members of society. The next step in 2011 was the Fundamental Law, which states that Hungary protects Hungarian sign language as part of Hungarian culture. And here we are with the new bill, which is the next stage of a process. As my fellow Member Zsolt Nyitrai mentioned, in spring 2014 the Fidesz-KDNP fraction promised to settle this issue. Why is that important? An organic consequence of the recognition of sign language as a natural language is the same as that of other foreign languages, so it is necessary to create the same situation in terms of foreign language supplement, the same conditions should be created for civil servants, civil servants who learn sign language, to receive a sign language supplement with the same right as their employees who have knowledge of other foreign languages. The bill is clear: it lays down the same conditions as is currently laid down in the Public Service Officers Act and the Public Employees Act. Thus, in the case of higher education, civil servants will be entitled to 50 per cent of the salary base, 30 per cent in the case of secondary knowledge and 15 per cent in the case of primary language. In the case of civil servants, he is entitled to 100 per cent at the top and 50 per cent at the middle. I stress that only those in whom the employer determines that sign language skills are necessary for the performance of his job should be eligible for the allowance. As a result, language teachers, translators, interpreters will not be entitled to the language allowance, as appropriate. Therefore, on the basis of the proposal submitted by us, in the event of the adoption of the bill, the Hungarian sign language knowledge may be subject to linguistic supplement under the conditions laid down in our proposal. At the same time, it is important and I would like to stress that the introduction of a sign language bonus will not replace the work of sign language interpreters or sign language interpreters themselves, they will also be needed, their work will also be important, or will not replace the so-called contact language video interpreter service, because it will be mandatory to continue asking for a sign language interpreter at different stages of procedures if the hearing impaired person needs it. This proposal further strengthens the status of sign language, further strengthens the recognition of sign language, while, of course, it also helps better administration, more accessible access to public services. By introducing a sign language supplement, perhaps more people will learn sign language, this can only be a positive development, it can benefit all if one more administrator or employee, official or public servant is able to explain himself to hearing-damaged customers during daily communication. I also think that we have a bill that meets with the agreement of all the political groups, and I am asking for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Sign language applause.]]
u2014-07-04-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Teleki, MSZP.
u2014-07-04-133	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 6 June 2014, MEPs first submitted a bill which was subsequently withdrawn. The proposal now on the agenda is T/463. I've got a new version of it. Before we talk about this new version, we should also have a few words about the history. On 9 November 2009, in the period of left-wing government, the National Assembly adopted the Hungarian Sign Language and Sign Language Act. In the general debate on the bill, several speakers stressed the importance of the importance of the legal recognition of sign language as an independent and natural language, but it is not sufficient to ensure equal access to education, culture, information and public services for members of the community using the Hungarian sign language. Dear Parliament, Five years have passed since then without the government doing anything in this case, apart from recognising the sign language as part of Hungarian culture and declaring its protection in the Fundamental Law. The revelation remained an empty speech. The public-funded, free-of-charge signal interpreters have been struggling for years, the public funding will be paid late, the hourly fee for interpretation, which is 8 percent of the minimum wage, has slightly increased. Those affected - our compatriots who can communicate only in sign language - were also affected by the removal of invalid pensions. Of course, there is also progress: organisations close to government or government fire were able to produce spectacular results. The new online interpretation system has been implemented from EU funds, and it is a pity that the essential financial assistance of the European Union cannot be accessed by any of the sign-translator organisations. Some people also talk about the redistribution of the service market in the field of signal interpretation. Dear Parliament, We can say that this bill may be well-intentioned, but it does not contain serious problems in the field of sign language interpretation. Members of the bill that we are now looking at have come before this House on their own initiative. That could mean two things at the same time. One is that, before the legislative proposal was tabled, unlike the law adopted in 2009, there was no professional consultation with sign language interpretation organisations on whether there was anything else to be done in this area of regulation other than the introduction of a sign language supplement. On the other hand, it can be seen that the State has also imposed its net in the field of interpretation, but it is not directly named by the government. This interpretation is confirmed by the fact that there is a significant difference in the new version of the bill compared to the previous one. In the previous version, the higher certificate of sign language in government officials was 100 percent of the salary base, now that it has been reduced to 50 percent. [[15.20]] The allowance for the holder of the secondary certificate was also halved. It would be nice to know what the reason for the change is within this short period of time. It has not changed, however, that the scope of the bill does not cover the interpretation of signals in civil society organisations; it is apparent that the intention is to create conditions for the public sector not to use an external interpreter in the performance of public authorities or services. This is undoubtedly encouraged by the fact that sign language knowledge is financially rewarded by the state with this bill. Dear Parliament, The question also deserves to be answered as to when the conditions for the involvement of the interpreters employed in civil society organisations are intended to be improved by the national representatives or the government. Sign language interpretation requires special knowledge. In my opinion, it deserves greater respect and recognition. It's too bad the bill's only gonna take a little step forward in this. The party of the Hungarian Socialist Party has tabled its amendments, if the party supports them, we will also support the amendment of the law. We do this because we consider it important, as was said in the introduction from the lead speakers, but we can see the difference that I told you that we do not understand why, how it could happen, that not a month has passed from June, and that the way we see in the amendment of the law has changed. The reason we think this is important and weird is that if a month ago one of them was prescribed 100 percent of higher sign language translation and the other was 60 percent and 15 percent of the base level, if they were serious about it a month ago, I think it would be important to hold the same percentage now. That is why we cannot accept the amendment very much. On the other hand, a distinction is made between civil servants and civil servants. I think both are unacceptable to us. We would therefore consider it more important to try to address this issue equally. We consider it important that their first proposal should be kept, because the higher the amount should be given to those who are otherwise doing very important work with this activity, and, as we have said, this work must require specific knowledge. Therefore, we consider it very important that this be paid even higher. It is also very important to point out that the draft law also includes the fact that the person cannot receive any allowance until he/she has worked out the amount that he/she is given for his/her further education or the acquisition of sign language. We say that this should also be considered, because if someone is being sent away or is trying to acquire this knowledge, then it should be supported without being affected by the fact that they will accept or fully legalize his certificate or exam when a time has passed. I'm saying that we should do this from the moment he took the exam, not the later 100 or 60 or even 15 percent. Based on these questions, we want to support this bill in our own way. But I would like to point out once again that we can only support it on the condition that our amendments can be accepted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would remind the Honourable Parliament that the rapporteur of the item on the agenda may speak in the debate at any time. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, the author.
u2014-07-04-135	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the following, I would like to respond to the correct and without any political gain of the speech made by Mr László Teleki, MSZP. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-07-04-136	Thank you very much. The next pre-notified speaker is Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Member Jobbik.
u2014-07-04-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Dear tableds, Of course, our faction will support this as well as any other proposal on this subject and showing progress. It is true that we need to support it in the light of the fact that we can see that there are areas where accessibility is being built with steam, but there are also areas that affect the lives of people with disabilities, where accessibility is very lagging behind both Europe and even the disability programme. I suggest that we try to synchronize these and bring up other areas, either physical accessibility or accessibility for the blind. But, of course, we can agree with that, because I think that anyone who is willing to do something extra to learn sign language either as a civil servant or as a civil servant can be expected to receive the allowance, especially if he is working in an area where he can be in a situation where he has to use this knowledge. Unlike the Member who spoke before me, Mr Teleki, I agree that if the civil servant or civil servant is unable to finance his own course as a result of the unfortunate current wage conditions, and the employer does so, he will not receive this bonus until then, in fact, repay the loan he received to complete the course. I think it's logical and acceptable, and that's how the balance is established, that I'm giving you something, that I'm getting something, that I'm doing something, and that's why I'm getting credit for it. It's been a long time, and it had to be done. However, with regard to this sign language supplement, there is also a question of whether, if we are talking about steps and acceptance of sign language at the higher and wider level, it would be worth taking into account that sign language can have a different role and function in higher education. We know very well that the obligation of higher education graduates to take language examinations is partly intended to demonstrate a kind of basic education, at least I think that was the aim, according to the legislator, of having a kind of language examination. However, the other and more important function of this requirement is to learn a language that you can apply and use in the course of your profession. If you are working in a field where English literature is more acceptable and more extensive, the better is actually, then yes, you should have an English language exam to train yourself as much as possible in your profession, to be as up-to-date and as prepared as possible in your profession. But there are areas, either in the social field, in the field of therapeutic education or in other areas, where one of the most important languages that the people working in this area should know is sign language. From now on, it is only a step further if we give a language substitute so that in the areas in which you are likely to use the sign language, even some of the areas listed by me, if taken into account, the sign language as a language examination obligation can be imposed. So if someone in these fields takes the right test in sign language, it gives him the right to receive his diploma. I think this is no longer such a big step for those working in the public sector to receive a language substitute for the knowledge of sign language. That's what I can suggest. What I can also suggest is that, in addition to the fact that there are certain areas that are now under way - it is also possible that, thanks to the lobbying activity and influence of the representative sitting here, accessibility has started with steam in certain areas, at a much higher speed than in other areas - I would like to ask that people living in other areas where we are experiencing huge delays, whether in public transport, public authorities or public institutions, can start with the same steam, balance and actually live a barrier-free and identical life. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-07-04-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. [[15.30]] We now have a two-minute speech: Mr László Teleki, MSZP.
u2014-07-04-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, I asked for two minutes because of the cynicism of Congressman Nitrai, I think he deserves two minutes. It wasn't a political speech, but think about it, Mr President, that you tabled a bill on 6 June, which will be withdrawn in three weeks' time, and that you will try to sell with a completely different percentage and amount. I think you have to decide exactly which number you wanted to use, because in my own reading, if I publish something two or three weeks ago, I will not withdraw it by saying that those interpreters are worth much less now than they were three weeks ago. Once again, Congressman, what is the reason why in three weeks you operate and work with completely different numbers than in the bill of three weeks ago? It is absolutely not a political attitude, but, on the contrary, I am defending those who must be protected, precisely because they really deserve the resources you have just presented as a bill. They're exactly the ones I'm protecting by trying to present this question in such a character. Honourable Congressman, I think that if you listened to my speech, you could also hear and sense that your support was provided by the Hungarian Socialist Party in the event that you could support our amending support. And what we are asking is that we have asked nothing else in this amendment to try to represent civil servants and civil servants in proportion, because it is very important for us both to be able to do interpretation on an equal footing. Therefore, I think that this is definitely about our support, but we will continue to maintain our amending proposal, and that is why I have asked you to repeat this. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-140	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be another two-minute meeting, and there is still an opportunity for Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz.
u2014-07-04-141	Thank you very much for the floor. I now think I should respond to the clarification of the concept. We are not talking about interpreters here, we are talking about civil servants and civil servants who may gain sign language knowledge. The answer to the question is very simple: we do not discriminate between civil servants and civil servants, because according to the current legislation, only three language exams can be awarded a 100 percent bonus - in the case of higher education - for civil servants, English, German and French. 50, 30 and 15 per cent for the other languages. We think it is fairer, or we think that with these rates, the institutions may also become more motivated to finance the bonus. I would like to make one more comment. I think it was a shame to involve the issue of funding the interpretation services now, because I would like to remind you that, for example, applications were suspended for three months in 2007, that interpreters did not receive payment for three months, unless their supporters financed it on their own initiative, so let us stay on the subject. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-142	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the Member, Sándor Szabó, MSZP.
u2014-07-04-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we could even agree with the amendment tabled if we did not find that, as we have already been used to, many examples of this have been in the last week or two, the legislative proposals or amendments would come in so that they were not sufficiently thoughtful, well-founded, or insufficiently hasty. We believe that in this case, too, there is a need for correction in this amendment of the law, there is a need for an amendment. The Socialist faction did that. We do not ask as much in this as my fellow Member Teleki has already said, that we really do not distinguish between the sign language allowance for civil servants and civil servants, precisely because we believe that civil servants are doing at least as useful and equal work for public service as civil servants or government officials do. So if you can support our amending proposal, we can, of course, support the otherwise acceptable and absolutely good legislative amendment, I repeat. We believe that it is important to create a single set of rules, because indeed, the pay system of public sector workers is becoming worse and worse. The salary of public service officials has not been increased for years, and this year, as of January 2014, we will not see any change in this. In the public sector, about 660 thousand people work, and about 30 percent of the workers receive a minimum wage, not according to the salary table that applies to them, but almost 40 thousand people, and there are 150 thousand employees whose salary is equal to the minimum wage. The fact that civil servants in many places do not make less money because they compensate for their wages is easy to come up with, as regards the civil servants' pay sign, the related pay classes and grades. If it weren't for that, thousands and tens of thousands would really be working for the government to earn less than the minimum wage the government has set. In terms of wage compensation, my fellow Members, but in terms of the public sector, it shows the government's inertia by not being able to provide for its own employees. What is particularly unacceptable to us is that, for workers who are entitled to family tax relief by themselves or by their spouse, the amount of tax relief for children is deducted from the compensation. Well, the government should develop a decent wage system, and that is what we are all interested in, in which civil servants can live without any humiliation, who, indeed, have serious livelihood problems by the end of the month. As long as this does not work, we believe that everything needs to be done to increase wages and, for example, to introduce a uniform language examination system in the public service. Once again, we can say that we support the proposal, but we simply do not understand why a distinction should be made in the language examination system. That is what our amendment is really about. If you can support this, then, of course, we can support the proposal. Thank you.
u2014-07-04-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP.
u2014-07-04-145	Thank you very much for the floor. As my fellow Members have already said, yes, we can support this motion, but we believe that they should have taken this step earlier, and that perhaps, when there were independent trade unions in all spheres, it would have been even easier to establish a uniform sign language bonus system, of course, in agreement with trade unions, which jobs should be covered by this sign language bonus. [[15.40]] In the case of government officials, however, the previous government has already narrowed it down to a significant extent, and it has virtually eliminated the substantial collective protection of interest by creating the non-independent Hungarian government officials. At present, a body not at all independent of the government should be protecting workers, civil servants and civil servants from the employer, from abuse. Before the disabling of the trade union sphere, independent trade union leaders were at least able to represent the interests and rights of their employees, and they were able to represent not only their members, but also the interests and rights of all workers. If they were able to reach an agreement with employers on anything, it was also valid for all other workers. [[István Szilárd Németh: They stole all the property!]] That is why we believe that it is your job to create the opportunity for trade unions to be established in government institutions. And in our view, the independent trade union is better able to represent the interests of workers, for example, in which jobs to receive sign language allowances. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next announced speaker was Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2014-07-04-147	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, It is clear how serious this topic is taken seriously by the pro-government representatives, there were six of them before, and now there are only five of them. But we have seen this recently that they are so interested in all the laws they have submitted, that if there is to be a debate about it or any comment, the benches will be empty, right, it is Friday afternoon, they must have very important things to do. I am particularly upset by the cynicism that Zsolt Nyitrai presented to us in this Chamber over the last few minutes, and it is a good indication of how they have behaved in the past four years either with minorities, disadvantaged people, poor children, or we could talk about women or domestic violence. They do the same thing every day in Parliament and show Hungary what they are like, pro-government representatives. I would like to draw your attention to some data, and there is no way to separate it here now that we are talking about sign interpreters or civil servants or public sector workers. What has happened recently is that public sector workers' wages are drastically reduced when compared to the competition sector. If we compare these two spheres - and I will list separate groups here - the employees made 5 percent more in education before 2008 than in the competition sector, this meant a 10 percent decrease by 2013 and now they earn 10 percent less than in the competition sector. In the human health and social care system, in 2008, when the crisis started, they earned 1 percent less than in the competition sector, which fell to 23 percent by 2013. In front of me, my fellow Member has already said that in many cases civil servants can only earn that minimum wage because they receive wage compensation. They are being compensated for wages because they themselves soon realized that by their own law they had put civil servants in an impossible position. I'd like to mention a working sphere that is sensitive to me personally. If we only take the kindergartens for the educational staff, the technical staff, the kitchen staff or the cleaning women... [[To Zsolt Nitrai:]] I see, Congressman, you don't care about that either, because you're more concerned with something else. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: That's not what the law is about!]] As you can see in many cases. Many times, kitchen ladies working there for 20 years make less money than they did when they hired... [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: The law is about sign language!]] What? [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Répássy Róbert: The law is about sign language!]] The two are connected, Congressman, because we are talking about civil servants and civil servants. You wave with your head and point, you can see very well every day that you don't care. [[Róbert Répássy: Rules of the House!]] And exactly in this law, which has been said by fellow Members, that a law has been submitted first, and then another, which is not even the first, is not taken seriously, nor are you interested. In addition, they know very well that in the public sector there has been poverty in the workforce, and that it affects precisely the interpreters. A lot of people leave this field every day because they're not paid. And precisely in this law, they distinguish between civil servants and civil servants. They've been doing it all the time for the past four years, but it looks like they're gonna be doing it for the next four years. It would be good if the problems of the Hungarian people were also addressed and cynicism did not take place in this House every day. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-07-04-148	Thank you. The next speaker is Ms Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2014-07-04-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that, in principle, the objective of this bill is fully eligible, and it is clear that my fellow Members have not questioned the objective either; we are merely trying to explore the current social environment in which this law is likely to be implemented with your vote, and I would just like to express my hope that they will accept our amendment, and we will be able to support this bill. Unfortunately, what is lacking in this is the realization of justice and equal opportunities, which, I think, is missing from a lot of government legislative proposals, which is why we want to complement these. I would really like to respond to his cynicism here in that I think that there should have been a reflection on the representation of interests here, even when early retirement has been lifted, and deaf people have also been put in a very difficult position and subjected to humiliating reviews, and disability pensions have been abolished. I think this is a case I wanted to highlight. So you should have considered them, not just now. With regard to the proposal, I still think that at this moment there are not sufficient and well-trained employees in public administration and public service, and it is therefore necessary, of course, to promote equal opportunities and equal access to public services by all means. If an additional income could be obtained with the sign language examination, there would be sufficient incentives for increasing numbers of people to benefit from improved public services, as I think that is a clear objective. If the government now, before the municipal elections, has suddenly become extremely urgent to introduce a bonus system for sign language examination, we do not understand - as my fellow Members have pointed out - why the government intends to grant the possibility of applying for a supplement only from 1 July. The upcoming government reports and statistics, as we know it, confirm one after another that this year's budget is stable and that there is supposed to be sufficient resources for everything. If that is true, then we do not see any financial justification for why government officials, civil servants or civil servants should not be entitled to the planned sign language allowance as from 1 January of this year. The social environment, I think, cannot be ignored in any bill. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the civil servant's salary has not been raised and frozen for years. The rate of this is currently HUF 38 650. This is the amount used to calculate the salaries of soldiers, defense workers and, by the way, law enforcement workers, among others. By freezing the civil servant's salary for years, hundreds of thousands of people's wages have been frozen, and wage compensation cannot provide a long-term solution. So I think the purpose of this bill is very good. I would also like to ask for the equality and fairness improvements and amendments that we are proposing to support, and I would like to point out that it is at least as important for the government to address the increase in the civil servants' salary base, as hundreds of thousands of people's futures, livelihoods and the safety of families depend on it. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-07-04-150	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the rapporteur for two minutes, Congressman Gergely Tapolczai.
u2014-07-04-151	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. I am very sorry that my fellow socialists, mixed with other subjects, want to turn the subject into a political debate. I'd like to stay on the subject. First of all, there's one thing I'd like to refuse. My fellow Member, László Teleki, mentioned that there is market distribution and redistribution, which I would like to reject in connection with the online interpretation service. [[15.50]] If you knew this project better, you could see that the tendering condition provided for a test period of one year, which takes place with 11 interpretation services. If the test period is successful, the system will open and anyone can participate. This only concerns interpretation services, not clients. Any client who is a member of Sinos can participate in the system, and in a year's time, the system will open here. As regards the financing of interpretation services, I would like to remind you that it has been the first time since 2003 that the operation of the interpretation services has become predictable, because the tender has been scheduled for a three-year term, and so far there have only been applications every year, and their work has been much more uncertain. Now the system is more continuous and predictable. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-152	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr László Kiss, MSZP.
u2014-07-04-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with this debate and part of the debate, because I think that my fellow Member Gergely Tapolczai has said things that, although not always convincing to me about the arguments of my fellow Member László Teleki, I can tell you that they were a meaningful reaction, and I think that in the Hungarian Parliament there is very little recently that the opposition is given a meaningful answer to substantive questions. This is certainly remarkable, and I think that this kind of attitude, I just have to thank the Member. Anyone who is not so at home in the world of parliament may think that the suggestions that are too general for criticism and suggestions by opposition representatives may even think that this may be true, but let me warn everyone that, under the current rules of the House, the general debate of the law is now taking place under the new rules of negotiation. The term " general " is a Hungarian word that can be interpreted in a common sense, meaning that the law must be examined in a general context. I would prefer, however, that the detailed debate of the law should also be in Parliament, as the Socialist Group has already said, but unfortunately, this is not possible, so instead of Parliament, we will have debate on the technical issues, if there are amendments - the Socialist Party has also made such an amendment - and then we will do it in the commission. Therefore, since there is such a system of negotiation in the Hungarian Parliament, we all have to bear hearing in the general debate of the bill the social contexts and broader policy contexts in which the law can be interpreted for us. Therefore, please accept that this is not an abuse of your patience, it is not an inappropriate professional argument that would hinder the adoption of the law, it is merely a matter of trying to justify our bill on a number of sides, even on a wider side. First of all, I think it is important to say this because I think that this is a good direction, a good initiative, and I would also like us to be able to make constructive proposals for this initiative, because our common goal is to make this proposal better. Nor does it seem to me from your manifestations that they would certainly refrain from this bill from achieving our common goal, which you, by the way, have very well formulated in the explanatory statement of the proposal. The Hungarian Socialist Party wants nothing more than that this bill can be so good that it best serves the goals it has set itself. Once again, we must say that there is no debate between us in these objectives, so we can talk only now about how we can achieve these goals, and I therefore ask you to accept these proposals with good intentions, because it is not about attacking a matter that we do not take over. I think it's a good case, a good initiative that's good that's right in front of us, we just want it to be as successful as possible. Please accept from me that I should tell you a little bit of my own point of view. Perhaps, in connection with this law, it is worth drawing a little from each one's own life. I'm a teacher myself, so I don't have to tell you that I've taken this idea with extreme sensitivity, and I'm glad you're here, although I'm extremely disturbed by the fact that again it seems to me that public servants or teachers are drawing a little bit shorter. I am not saying that this is your intention, nor am I saying that such an intention lies in the proposal, but that is still the case. I do not believe that this issue must necessarily be resolved in this proposal. If you say you understand the problem, you have no way of doing so now, but in September you will bring in another bill that concerns teachers, workers in the social sphere, that could also be an excellent compromise. I do not think that the socialists are presenting inexorable dictatorships here when they are talking about the fact that they would like public servants to enjoy the benefits or opportunities they extend to civil servants, we believe, very rightly. Allow me to explain, for some reasons, why this is important to us, how much practice is taking on public servants and educators in this area to be subjected to negative discrimination. Compared to the language exams of civil servants, the language exams of civil servants operate in a very different way. Today, for example, a history teacher who has a higher or secondary English exam will not receive a language exam. That's not how it is in the public sector. I'm only telling you this so you can feel why we're sensitive to these civil servants' allowances. The situation is similar when we talk about what kind of allowances there are. Previously there was, under previous governments, a double allowance for teachers, if someone had two or more university degrees and taught on the basis of it, then the allowance was paid, now there is no such thing. Similarly, as my fellow Members have already said, there is an existing wage tension between civil servants and civil servants. Although, by the way, the common approach of the civil servants' and civil servants' faculty worked in the central administration and practically in the teaching staff until 1945, it became a tradition after the separation of civil servants and civil servants. I think it also shows that sometimes there can be very unfair financial relations. We are saying this only because we think that it is the money that would also be a legitimate benefit for civil servants, and I also agree that it is excellent that they should be encouraged to do so, which, moreover, would be necessary for the accessibility of public administration, and it would also be necessary for civil servants. Perhaps he did not know enough that teachers among public employees and educators were obligated to further training, which, in many cases, they would have to pay themselves. It's easy to leave it to everyone's imagination how well a teacher's salary can be. In place, it could also be an initiative that, in the event that sign language training would start among public employees and teachers, this could also be part of the compulsory teacher training programme and include the number of hours required for educators on a seven-yearly basis. Look, I've only told you this so that you can see that we have a number of concrete proposals on the bill for civil servants or educators, which deserve to be spoken about here, and, if appropriate, to serve as a basis for another, next law, if you see that it cannot be dealt with in this law. It is important to talk about this because it seems to us that civil servants will always be excluded; they are the ones who will only be entitled to a language examination or any allowance if they have access to it, and the central administration has access from time to time, and civil servants generally do not have access to it. And finally, one last thing: let me mention another aspect to you. This is a very important presentation, which I think is that civil servants and the civil servants' staff must be drawn to their attention. I've been a III for years. I am a member of the school board of a district institution, the University of Health and Methodology in my district, and I have to say, I understand the work that the teachers have done here. Believe me, it would be very, very important for them to receive recognition or additional prizes for this work, as there are many committed professionals among them who I think can only be thought of with admiration. [[16.00]] At the same time, it says everything about the relations between civil servants and educators, that the National Teachers' Faculty, which should in principle channel the opinion of teachers into the administration, into the National Assembly, did not give any opinion to your proposal, which, I think, once again, would have been a step in the right direction, for example, worthy of the fact that, in principle, the National Teachers' Faculty, representing teachers, would have promoted this otherwise good proposal, with either a proposal or even an excellent attention. You didn't do that. I hope you'll do it later. I ask you to take these proposals, which have been made in the spirit of constructivity, seriously and try to improve your proposal with these. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-154	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the floor before the end of the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. I will ask the authors whether either of them wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Zsolt Nitrai nodds.]] Congressman Nitrai says yes. Congressman Zsolt Nitrai!
u2014-07-04-155	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. I would like to thank all the Members who have come close to this otherwise well-meaning proposal with good intentions. Once again, it is unique in Europe, because Hungary will be the first to take this step if the majority of the Members of Parliament will support this proposal in the vote, namely by introducing a sign language supplement for those working in the public sector. We are, of course, looking forward to the amendments, and I think that the weeks ahead are a good opportunity for us to look at them carefully and ask everyone for their support in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-07-04-156	Thank you, Congressman Nitrai. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by Wednesday at 4 p.m. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the bill to amend certain public service laws will follow until closure. István Szilárd Németh's own motion is T/466. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Economic Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to István Németh Szilárd, the author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The T/466, which I have recorded and which is on the House's table. Legislative bill No.3 on the amendment of certain public service laws, in practice, to extend and clarify legislation on reductions and consumer protection. As is well known to you, the reduction of the rent originally started as an extraordinary social measure a year and a half ago, because Hungarian families paid the highest rent in Europe. This was thanks to the fact that during the 8-year anniversary of the Gyurcsány coalition, the fake left gave operators 15 times the opportunity to raise the prices of domestic gas and electricity, which they had privatized in foreign hands. They did so while the world market prices for natural gas and electricity were constantly falling, but the comrades, in cooperation with the service providers, introduced the extra profit lost on the free market on the Hungarian families. Therefore, we remember that between 2002 and 2010, the price of electricity doubled, and the price of gas tripled, while slowly lying to cut everyone off: there will be no increase in gas prices. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have put an end to this inhumane and populous policy when we announced the first reduction in overhead. Since then, thanks to the support of the Hungarian people, the third price reduction measure has already been in place, and we will continue to reduce the costs this year. With 2.5 million signatures, half a million peace marches and two-thirds mandate of the government and Fidesz-KDNP in the April-May elections, Hungarian voters took faith in the policy of reducing the rent. Thus, from 1 April 2014, according to Fidesz's promise, the price of gas decreased by 6.5 percent, from 1 September the electricity decreased by 5.7 percent, from 1 October to 3.3 percent for the heating period. Today we pay a quarter less for household energy, so an average Hungarian family can save up to 250 thousand HUF a year; and then we have not talked about reducing the additional 10 percent of drinking water, sewerage, sewage snorkeling, bottled and tanked LPG, waste transport and chimney sweep. We can clearly say that by reducing the overhead we have achieved the idea that Hungarian families should live their daily lives in safer, more predictable conditions and in a better social situation. Dear Parliament, However, we have also seen a number of other positive consequences of the reduction in overhead costs. It should be noted that the third reduction leaves more than HUF 300 billion for the Hungarian people, which is being reinvested into the Hungarian economy. So far, this money has been simply fabricated by foreign-owned operators from the country. On the other hand, the reduction has had a very good impact on the growth of retail sales, as there is more money available for free spending than Hungarian families, and this is also reflected in the statistics, and now retail sales have been increasing in Hungary for more than a year. On the other hand, as controversial as it may be, service providers themselves have benefited: many have used their savings to reduce and repay their debts in the Gyurcsány era, thus reducing the availability of service providers by billions. Cheaper energy, declining overhead costs, have also brought inflation to a historic low point. The last time it happened was in the '60s, the money went down. As a result, however, Hungarians' salaries and pensions are worth much more, so we could also say that their real value has increased significantly. Ladies and gentlemen, The cost reduction also had a very positive impact on consumer protection. Hungarian consumers have seen that the game is not on the line, there are very serious, beneficial financial consequences for the reduction of the rent. For the first time, the decisions of the majority of the government and parliament have not increased but reduced their cost of living. They found that Fidesz did not fool them with the level of " no gas price increase, but after an election " lie. In expressing their confidence, they have thus revealed problems that have been unsolved for decades, and they have also sent complaints and suggestions to the Committee that I have led, which concerns the area of consumer protection. Thus, a number of measures were taken to protect the interests of Hungarian consumers and to reduce the dominant position of service providers. For example, there is a significant extension of the powers of the National Consumer Protection Authority, which now allows them to investigate infringements in the areas of electricity, natural gas, district heating, water utilities, waste management and chimney sweep services. But this is also the new social utility law, which has led to a significant change in the possibility of limiting basic public services. Among other things, even for a disabled consumer in residential areas, the restriction of public services in common areas is prohibited, where minimum care must always be provided. In cooperation with the service providers, but with the interests and requests of Hungarian consumers in mind, we have also created a single public service account picture, so citizens are now able to distinguish the accounts by color, but thanks to the simplification of the accounts they can very easily review and interpret the information contained in it, and they can do so in any area of the country because of the unification. On the basis of their request, service providers are obliged to provide an unfettered account picture to consumers who have poor vision or are blind. We also created so-called tariffs in all 19 counties of the country and in the capital. These are extremely popular, and so far many complainants have been helped by employees of government offices. We also significantly increased the fine limit imposed by the NFH in the event of serious infringements, from 100 million to 500 million forints. [[16.10]] At the same time, we also introduced the 10 000 HUF bond that the service provider would pay to the consumer. This will be done if there is no reduction in the costs or if consumers are not properly informed of the fact and extent of this. Allow me, without the need for completeness, to list a few more measures from the past period, such as the introduction of the consumer rapporteur's institution or the more frequent reading of the meter, or the possibility of changing the reading time by the consumer, and such as the so-called five-minute rule for telephone customer services. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/466 ahead. The aim is to represent the interests of Hungarian consumers, to protect consumers from the abuse, neglect of dominant service providers, and, not least, to ensure that this public service market is able to develop and to strengthen conscious consumer behaviour. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on the basis of the experience gathered over the past year and a half, on the basis of thousands of citizens' requests, I propose to the National Assembly, under the professional control of the National Consumer Protection Authority and the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office. I would like to thank the citizens and these professional organisations for their cooperation and assistance. Dear Parliament, Let us now look at some concrete examples of the bill before us. From now on, each public service provider must operate its own independent website. In many cases, the consumer has no idea how much it costs to empty a waste vessel when the chimney sweep comes and how much it has to pay or how much a cubic meter of drinking water costs. This will cease from now on, because the websites must be filled with mandatory content. In accordance with local government regulations, the most important information should be clearly and clearly indicated: e.g. the fee applied and the method of calculating them, the rules of business, the general terms and conditions, the availability and opening hours of customer services, complaint handling forums and opportunities, the relevant legislation and other information. Thanks to the measure, all citizens will be able to quickly and easily find out about the main data of the public services that affect them. The point of clarification regarding consumer rapporteurs is that the company is obliged to employ a rapporteur whose professional qualifications are best adapted to the company's scope of activity. Other professional knowledge is needed in the areas of retail, public services or infocommunications. We extend the scope of the overhead points, on the basis of citizens' needs, to all areas affected by reductions, including electricity, natural gas, district heating, drinking water, sewerage, waste transport, sewage snorkeling, chimney sweeping, bottled and wired LPG. At the district heating service, the current 8-day payment deadline is increased to 15 days. Therefore, the district heating service provider must ensure that the consumer has 15 days to settle the invoice from receipt of the bill. This was necessary because, in many cases, the invoice will only be received one or two days before the payment deadline. Some people can't make money immediately, but even if they pay their debts by the date of the payment deadline, they still have several days until the service provider receives the money. The service provider shall charge a late payment fee, SMS or letter of formal notice, beyond the payment deadline. This could be thousands of forints, so we would like to help the stakeholders here. The letters sent by the public service provider shall also indicate the public service provider by consignor if the delivery of the consignments is carried out in a disorganised form. We have also found many practical examples of this. This rule applies to cases where the supplier of electricity or natural gas also involves a intermediary for the delivery of letters. In many cases, the consumer is not aware that an unknown name is bt. Or kft. a letter sent by the public service operator hides a cheque and an invoice. Thus, he is recklessly putting it aside or even throwing it out as advertising; he is in any case exceeding the payment deadline, which the service provider is sanctioning with serious money as mentioned above. We also extend the scope of the Consumer Protection Authority in the areas of water supply, drinking water, sewerage and chimney sweep. In the future, they may also examine compliance with the rules of business and, if they experience an infringement, they may act. The extension of powers mainly concerns invoicing, checking the contents of invoices, clearing, charging, measurement, or restriction or termination of the service. A further change is that the public service provider that may have ceased to be obliged to inform the subsequent public service provider of the fees it has applied, which will also determine the level of the reduction in overhead charges. In some cases, in the absence of this service or of the service itself, no reduction of the rent was applied. However, now it is no longer possible to refer to this, the fees must be presented and reduced. Changes in debt management are truly consumer-friendly measures. From now on, the consumer's debt can be transferred to the collecting company only after one year. But we are also tightening demand management conditions for public service and debt management to protect consumers. In particular, the public service provider shall inform the consumer and the claim management undertaking of the reasons for the claim management and all relevant information. The parties involved in debt management are now obliged to cooperate with each other. Moreover, in the event that the consumer lodges a complaint concerning claim management, no further steps can be taken to recover the amount until the complaint is examined. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, You can see that the bill serves a good purpose, it is formulated for the benefit of Hungarian consumers, based on their suggestions and experiences. Today, the general debate on this is taking place here in Parliament, but the possibility of improvements and additions is not over. I ask my fellow Members and stakeholders, consumer associations, public services, advocacy and professional organisations and, of course, Hungarian consumers, citizens to participate in the social debate on the draft law and to send me their comments over the next 2 to 2.5 months. The adoption of the law will take place only after this, in our autumn session, in September. Thank you for listening, thank you for supporting Hungarian consumers. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-07-04-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. It says yes. You have the floor, Secretary of State Zsolt Szabó, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2014-07-04-159	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent years, the government has made it clear that it considers better protection of consumers' rights as a priority, and in order to achieve this goal, we have strengthened the role of domestic consumer protection by amending a number of legislation. Today, one of the most important tasks and objectives of consumer protection is to investigate and remedy maladministration, violations and infringements resulting from the dominant economic position of large public service providers. Consumers expect firm administrative action against infringing undertakings and the remedy of their specific grievances. They also need to have access to the basic information they need in the context of consumer protection as easily as possible. The National Consumer Protection Authority has a wide range of powers in all public service areas, such as electricity, gas, natural gas, district heating, water utilities, waste management, chimney sweeping and other industrial services, for retail users. In 2012, a total of 4731 submissions related to public utility services were received by the authorities, while this number exceeded 7,000 last year. This proves the importance of the authority itself in this area. This year, the number of complaints has so far been similar to the 2013 data, and most submissions in the field of public services are made in relation to billing, settlement and accountability of service providers. [[16.20]] Due to the high number of complaints by the public, the legislator has established consumer protection obligations in the Consumer Protection Authority since January by amending the Consumer Protection Act. Its primary task is to provide consumers with information on the legal requirements for public services, on public procedures that can be initiated by the consumer, and on means of enforcement of claims as quickly and as direct as possible. The National Consumer Protection Authority and the Agency's staff shall assist in contacting and handling matters with the service provider. It is therefore absolutely justified to broaden the scope of the tariffs and to enforce all the needs of interested consumers in all service areas such as non- utility domestic waste water, chimney sweeping public services and the distribution of fixed LPG and LPG in containers or bottles. Experience has shown that legislation needs to be clarified in several places, supplemented, and that it is necessary to specify in more detail the obligations imposed on service providers, that is what this legislation, this draft law, is about. The interests of consumers require that public service providers operate a website in accordance with the expectations of the age, and in particular businesses can provide accurate, precise, reliable and concentrated information on the service and its legal background. The Consumer Rapporteur shall be responsible for the organisation of consumer education and training for employees of the company in the light of the company's activities concerning consumers. The rapporteur shall liaise with the Consumer Protection Authority, the Conciliation Body and other bodies. Businesses should always serve users in full compliance with consumer protection legislation. Keeping an eye on the proper functioning of these processes is the job of the rapporteur and can only perform his duties most effectively if he is qualified to carry out his duties and can thus provide the activity perfectly. In relation to the reduction of the rent, the sectoral laws in the field of electronic communications, electricity, gas and water utilities were amended by the Civil Code itself in the context of the entry into force of the Civil Code. In order to address the problems encountered in the practical application of the provisions introduced, the proposal provides a detailed definition of certification of invoicing systems. On the basis of the complaints received, for example, consumers often find it difficult that they do not have sufficient time to settle the invoice between the receipt of their district heat bill and its payment deadline. Therefore, in order to make the service provider's invoicing practices predictable for users, it is necessary to amend this requirement and the user should have 15 days from receipt to pay and settle the bill. In order to ensure a higher level of protection of consumer interests, it is appropriate to extend the scope of the Consumer Protection Authority in the field of water utility services to include cases of breaches of the requirements of the Business Rules against retail users. In the event of a change in the service provider's identity, the former service provider may not provide data on the previous service to the new service provider. In particular, this is a problem in the field of waste management public service, where, as of 1 July 2014, only non-profit companies can carry out this task and several areas with external service providers have terminated the supply and have not provided their databases or provided the information. Under the current legislative text, each public service provider is obliged to indicate the rolled-out amount of the savings due to the reduction in overhead costs. However, in the event of a change of service provider, it is also common that the previous service provider does not provide the new service provider with the data relating to its previous services. It is therefore appropriate to supplement the current legislative text by requiring the old service provider to provide such information and to ensure the compliance of the new service provider with the legal obligation. In the field of chimney sweeping public services, the Consumer Protection Authority's competence has so far been limited to mandatory billing images. Since the problem with the specific content of the invoice often arises in practice, it is appropriate to extend the authority's powers. This is happening in this change of legislation. Currently, in the field of waste management public services, the frequency of issuing invoices varies across municipalities. Some do so every month, every two months, every quarter, every six months and every six months. It is therefore proposed to include this area in uniform regulation in order to protect consumers' interests. Accordingly, the service provider must issue it at least every three months. The old Ptk. the claims have lapsed over a period of five years, unless otherwise provided for in any legislation. In line with this, for certain public service areas, sectoral rules set different time periods, for example for electricity and natural gas, which were two years. The new Ptk. According to the Court of Justice, civil law law must be interpreted in accordance with that law. The new Ptk. However, it does not allow other legislation to set a different limitation period, so the new Ptk. for each public service sector in relation to the limitation period laid down in the law should be negotiated and the rules on limitation should be recast. A submission often comes to the Consumer Protection Authority which complains that the public service provider is handing its claim over to a specialised company that is informed of in a request. However, it often does not reveal either the original holder of the claim, the exact title or the due date. The claim holder often does not have any information on the original claim. It is a solution to this problem that, when a public service provider sells a claim to a company, it must inform the consumer about the consumer's data, the title of the claim and the actual due date. From these data, the claim manager must also inform the consumer when making a request so that the consumer can verify the merits of the claim. It is therefore necessary to lay down the most basic rules for the transfer of the claim, the information requirements and the obligation for the administrator to reply in writing and in substance to the consumer's submission within 15 days. Dear Parliament, In order to ensure the effective protection of consumers' rights and to strengthen their position, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support its own motion. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-07-04-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The bill tabled by my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, can be regarded as a bill of major importance for all Hungarian households and all Hungarian consumers. We are having this debate and a general debate at these moments. In my reading, our group, it is basically about enforcing the common good, government responsibility, monopolistic resources, but about access to the public services we need to exist, to sustain our lives, to social sustainability and to restore public confidence. [[16.30]] As my fellow Member mentioned in his exposé, the successive neoliberal governments serving in the 2000s left their posts and places of service. It was considered that, by virtue of the market's regulatory self-regulation and mechanism of action, companies carrying out so-called public services would be able to ensure both the service obligations associated with sustainability, affordability and security of supply. But that's not how it worked. In principle, the service provider, the service provider operating on the basis of profit interests, if the vulnerable consumer is not protected by the State, by legislation or by consumer protection, will not be protected, because he is essentially interested in collecting the greatest possible benefits with the minimum possible cost. Only the State can protect the vulnerable consumer using monopolistic public services by interfering and creating a regulatory environment that imposes clear, clear conditions and obligations on the service provider itself, not just on the service user. And this is not just about security of supply, not only about enforcing environmental sustainability aspects, but also about promoting the enforcement of citizens', minimum citizens' rights for the benefit of the common good; ensuring fair conditions of service so that the consumer himself feels that he is actually being served for his money, for payment, and not being used. Because the recipient of the service pays for the service used in a good, fair case. If you pay for the service, it is clear that that service must reach the consumer by respecting him as a human being. Therefore, not only is the service accessible, it is not only affordable, but it is also a consumer that is respected by the service provider, the public service company. Well, the biggest hiatus fell in the 2000s. It was not a coincidence that, after the change of government in 2010, the first steps of governance included the elimination of this unfair situation, or at least the attempt to remedy it, which was, of course, also a question of social justice, because the price level of the use of public services in Hungary was significantly higher than the European service price levels, mainly on the basis of a comparative comparison with income. This must also be added, for this is what the truth requires. At the same time, social justice has indeed required that the government intervene by transforming pricing regulations, weeding out unnecessary elements and charges in order to freeze the amount of the rent. Then, seeing that this alone is not enough, and indeed social sustainability, the prevention of social slippage, or the reduction of its pace, also requires a real reduction in the price level, or, if you like, to maintain the standard of living at a time when, as a result of the run-up of a very poor, bad bank loan product, quite a lot of nearly 800 thousand Hungarian households have been put in a lending trap, and these two, together, have threatened social sustainability, from one side to the other, by a gradual, continuous increase in public service charges, energy prices and, thirdly, by mixing into a credit trap. I myself, as an energy and sustainability politician, and as a policy-makers, have often debated some of the solutions in our group, including in the professional public eye. I think I did the right thing. At the same time, a government policy based on the foundations of social justice, which has been achieved by reducing the costs of consumer protection, could not be supported. It has to be noted that this is a fair intervention that has provided the opportunity for a large number of families and households using different public services to hold on to themselves and to ensure normal human conditions for themselves and their families. That's what the question was. And when public service providers are obliged to provide services, they are obliged to do so, and the consumer feels not only in his pocket but also in his well-being that he is not alone, because he is supported by the state itself, which has a privileged role in maintaining and enforcing the common good, then public confidence begins to recover. Public confidence will be restored, and the consumer will appear with comments, small complaints, but rather with improved comments that can further clarify the regulatory environment, so that the consumer feels that he is not in a vulnerable position vis-à-vis the service provider. These were the proposals that our fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, has made in the last year and a half, and we are also meeting with such a package of proposals during the general debate on this proposal. That is why I said that it is essentially a question of enforcing the common good, about government responsibility, about restoring public confidence, about regulating and ensuring the conditions for access to resources. I would like to mention the extension of the payment deadline, as consumers will have 15 days, instead of 8 days, to be able to take account of the state of their own household register after delivery, and to prioritise their payment obligations in order to ensure that it is also fulfilled, while at the same time complying with the daily, monthly living obligations within their own household. Of course, this is also practical for those who do not have payment difficulties, but they are on leave, and they are taking leave in such a way that they fall into the billing period, fall into the delivery of invoices, and when they arrive, they will have to face the fact that the service will be restricted because they have run out of the eight-day deposit deadline. Therefore, a fair increase of this to 15 days is also acceptable for the public sector. And the same applies also to the details of the delivery of invoices, the disclosure of data, because if these invoices are delivered by subcontractors, they are supplied to consumers and the actual service provider is not indicated on the envelope, then these notifications can very easily be set aside. Then one goes on the other, one of the advertising newspapers covers it, the city newspapers are coming, they're coming on it again, and then suddenly, when they clean up, the consumer realizes that there's an envelope with some kind of cheques in it, but the envelope doesn't contain the actual sender, it's just a delivery guy, but the actual sender demands the rightful payment and service fee. [[16.40]] So this is also related to consumer protection, better information for consumers, protection of their interests, if it is clearly and clearly indicated on the damn envelope that I am asking you, here from the waterworks, here from the gas supplier, here from the electricity supplier or from the telephone company, in which the cheque is included and must be paid. I would like to mention one more point on the charges, since the accounts are now complemented by the website, quite rightly, which provides consumers with information on the conditions and charges of services in an online form. However, I would like to talk about a different kind of liability, and I would also like to mention here that consumers also have obligations, so let us not think that only service providers and only the State have a duty to ensure safe, accessible, sustainable and affordable operation of public services. The consumer also has obligations, and there is a need for enforcement. So when someone is actually stealing from and stealing from their fellow consumers on account of their needy situation, whether they are taking illegal electricity or taking water, that is not a sustainable and law-abiding attitude. Not to mention, at intervals, this may be the limit of public hazard. I myself saw him as a practicing mayor, as a congressman, and I can account for such situations. In our city, Tatabánya, in recent years, a residential area, a localizable residential area, there has been a hundred million scale of electricity theft and damage, not only because the needy bought electricity illegally, but also because some people did not comply with these rules. As a result, even for other consumers, due to the failure of the power lines overloaded by illegal buying, consumption became unattainable, even though they paid fair compensation for the energy consumed and the public service. In such a case, intervention is necessary, but it is not necessary to bring down the power of the law, but it is necessary that the service provider, the local government concerned and the social organisations which undertake to enforce this kind of social responsibility go into these communities, they are present as part of social support, they address the problem by bringing together a presence programme, a local government and a service provider, they rebuild the network, make it measurable, make it pre-payable, the municipality uploads the necessary resources, and if necessary, the former President of the Republic helps to purchase stoves from his own presidential framework, and the stoves are connected with the public work programme, the collection of green waste, its briquette, its burning in the stoves. This presence, if you like, is a liability, social, social, sustainability, and the charitable organisations in this area should also be thanked. This is how the picture is put together: the presence of consumer protection, social, state, municipal and charitable organisations, and in this public confidence rights and obligations can be balanced. That is why I would also like to thank my fellow Member for making the presentation. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-07-04-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr László Kiss, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-07-04-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that today, too, in this debate, we have certainly seen a good example of two things. We have seen an example of how a bill should be presented professionally and objectively; I think that we have seen this in the comments of both the rapporteur and the two speakers before me, but also the secretary of state; and we have also seen the noise that Fidesz has been continuing in recent years. I would like to raise this question as to which it should be, because, of course, everyone is obviously able to continue this blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. The rest is part of the " false left, " the " comrades'and other such stupidities, but this is not part of the policy or the intention that the author, in the light of consumer protection, clearly presents to us. The word " neoliberal " is similar, which is constantly mentioned. My apologies to everyone, this is not relevant, but as a teacher, I think this supplement is important. The concept of " neoliberal " was published in the 1970s in connection with Milton Friedman's work, and neoliberal politics itself was about allowing neoliberals to intervene in a certain state. I must say, therefore, that if we are talking about the possibility of further public intervention by an economic direction compared to the previous approach, it is neoliberal policy. In this sense, therefore, your approach can be called neoliberal, which considers further state interventions to be permissible compared to the previous one. I am only telling you this so that we can see that the concepts that you believe are being used correctly and that you have wronged yourself in Hungarian politics are not actually the words that you think they are. I just think it's important, like a little culture this Friday afternoon. I believe that if this can be achieved by using correctly concepts that have already been created by science, then we have not lived in vain. Let's look at the real content of the law. This law can be divided into two parts. One of the things that my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, says is that the reflection and representation of the submissions of the Hungarian people who have turned to him or to the authorities. I believe that if we study this law, we see that there are indeed a great number of proposals here that are certainly of such a background. And indeed, there are also proposals before us which, however, seem to reflect less the intentions of consumers. I'm thinking about some of the sloppy things we're gonna mention. I think this is important because the Socialist Party and the Hungarian socialists are on the side of Hungarian consumers, so if you come forward with a proposal that really addresses consumer protection aspects and really applies the aspects that Mr. State Secretary or my fellow Member Bencsik spoke about, then we can certainly support it, because we are partners in protecting consumers and we are partners in supporting them. However, if the legs of this proposal, which are not like this, live longer, it is certainly not just what you have been talking about. I hope we can understand each other in that regard. The first thing we need to talk about is the website. I think what you're raising here is right to be expected. It is legitimate to expect that consumers who want to know what rules apply to them by browsing the websites using the Internet. I am such a consumer, so forgive me for bringing this up, as a simple panel resident in Óbuda, let me mention a few things. I went up to my own provider, the ELMû website, and there was also a large part of (i) that you set out on the website. I didn't really look for it, and as a simple history teacher, I don't live in it, but I can tell you that I have already found most of this (i) on this site. If you look at the fact that you are obligated to operate your own independent web site providing information about public service activities only, then I do not understand exactly what this is about, I am embarrassed. As far as I know, every utility company has a website like this right now. Do we now need to create a new one compared to this, or do we need to write this information on existing ones? It doesn't matter what the question is. Although I can say that I accept this intention, I think this demand is in place. The level of fees to be applied and the conditions of application shall be indicated. This is very great, I think it is an absolute legitimate demand, but let us be clear, let us say, that the price of electricity is Budapest III. It is the same in its district and district V, while the price of water is clearly different. It is therefore a little difficult to interpret when applying this law to a general service provider, but it can be said that, apart from that, this is an acceptable direction. At the same time, however, we find it a bit excessive that the municipal regulation in force in its service area, which regulates its activities, is broken down by settlement, in a form which can be traced back five years. [[16.50]] I can tell you that if it's your own, III. In my district municipality, where I live, I would like to go back to what rules apply to me as a consumer, and I would not be able to do such a breakdown for five years. So you are asking consumers to collect something that the municipalities will not give them in the context of their reporting obligations. In addition, with regard to invoices, we can see that the consumer is lost among the many informations. The question is that if the information among which the honourable author has actually listed some of the information that really has a place on this website is here and fills it with a number of laws that turn this into an uncontrollable, tangled mass of data, then we will achieve our goal. I don't think so. We would suggest that this clause should not be included, that municipal regulations should not be broken down into settlements for five years. By the way, we believe that what the Member puts forward in his proposal to provide such information is indeed a place. It says that the person who works here has obtained the qualifications from the basic consumer skills and the profession of the company that employs them. As far as I know, most providers have consumer protection workers, but even if they do not, I have to say that the socialists also agree that this should be the case for each company. However, weird mergers can be seen between some ruffles in the education business market and this demand. I must say that you will be kind enough to eliminate our fear today, which I think you will have the opportunity to do in the direction that it is not possible that it is the education services market, an expert training market that says this kind of regulation to you. At the same time, the wording itself seems a little slick to me, because I think it would be more appropriate to specify that the rapporteur's employment should be carried out in such a way that he/she has the qualifications required for this job. But what you've written here doesn't necessarily mean it's been quite inaccurate. It is equally interesting regulation, which applies to the accounts. You wrote that you have to go through all kinds of validation procedures for these accounts. That is basically the point of this direction, so that the accounts that consumers receive cannot be accessed from the outside. By the way, I think that we are once again in agreement with the need to have such invoices, which are quality assurance in this direction. But when you think about it, what we see is that you've managed to over-regulate it here, too. It's kind of like going to the Frog County market and telling the kofa I'd like an apple, but I hope he didn't climb it. Tell me you didn't. You didn't climb. Okay, then I'd like to get a written note on this. He's gonna sign me on Frog County that no, the exchange bug didn't climb my apple. And neither is the ant? No, that didn't climb either. Okay, well, then I'd like a piece of paper on that, too. And so on, surrounded by the animal kingdom, maybe even the single-celled ones, I get a pretty good set of files about what didn't climb my apple. So I don't think we should get on the other side of the horse. In the first place, we assume that the type of documentation that we receive as an invoice, if we do not have a specific complaint, is valid. Let us try not to get suspicion into our hearts in the first place, but to try to solve this issue if we do not have a specific complaint with the account, taking into account the general security aspects. As far as I know, there is no service provider with a non-quality information management system. There is no service provider that does not have such a system. There is no service provider that does not have the IT protection of its system. I'm afraid that you'd like to oversell this, and I hope it's not a shady intention, based on all kinds of corporate crap. I think you should definitely consider that. We talked about what happens if we don't get the bill in time, but we still have to pay. That's what my fellow Member Benchik was talking about. The proposal provides for a deadline of 15 days compared to the previous 8 days. I agree with this for my part, and the socialists agree with this proposal. We believe that, indeed, this is a reasonable thing between the relations between Magyar Posta and the current economic situation, this 15-day requirement can certainly be the right direction for consumers. However, I do not feel that there are adequate guarantees in the proposal for consumers about what is going on if this does not happen. There are many possibilities to be built in. I think there might be a way to count late interest beyond 15 days. But we can think of other directions, because we think this is a very good direction, but we would like to make it clear to the simple consumer that he does not have to pay any late payment for the 15 days. Similarly, it can be said that we can talk about chimney sweeping services. It must be clear that you can talk about what progress has been made here, but the reality is that, thanks to the steps you have taken, the hard sweep has practically stopped. I think it is appropriate to improve the public service in this matter. I believe that this can be arranged. However, it is also necessary to talk about the practice of the rural settlements; the chimney sweeping service for the simple Hungarian people in the previous years was just a matter of looking at the chimney sweeps, smoking, smoking, smoking, not smoking, very good, but otherwise no meaningful service was provided. Similarly, it should be mentioned how acceptable it is, for example, that when the utility company dealing with chimney sweeps in the capital, when it became aware that you were reducing the cost of chimney sweeping, it informed the general public that there is still a possibility - this happened last year - that they would be able to make use of chimney sweeps at an earlier price, at a higher price. We should also talk about this, since we are protecting consumers. Similarly, with regard to consumer protection, the Consumer Protection Authority, which has increased its task, as the Secretary of State said, has received a lot more complaints from the public, but it has been seen that a number of complaints are coming from the public, that they do not reach consumer protection and that they do not receive a response in good time. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary, whether consumer protection is prepared to deal with increased complaints from the general public. It seems to us that the further development of the Consumer Protection Authority would certainly be a good course. We agree with the rapporteur's proposal that the transfer of the claim may take place only in order to recover a debt of over one year or any other claim for payment. However, it must be made clear that it was you who, for example, made the rent debt enforceable after a month. So when we talk about consumer protection, we can see that there are different people. There are people who owe rent, who can get out of their apartment after a month, and there are others who don't. We also need to talk about consumer complaints to public authorities. Most of all, as the Secretary of State said, the complaint of clarity about the account was common. I can confirm that myself. In comparison, it is not so well-known, but the content of the accounts is precisely governed by a government decree or law. In the event that we see that the exact content of the invoices is determined by you, Fidesz's communication gives the impression that the external image and transparency of the invoice is not the responsibility of them, but the service provider. I think it is right that the account should be understandable, but it is important that this legislation, which is before us, needs to be amended. The account you're putting here again is just making this situation complicated. I would ask you to modify the mandatory accounts so that it can really be understood by the public. Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! If we can improve this rule, if we are willing to take the steps that we have said together, the Socialist Party can support this law. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then it is indeed in the interests of consumers. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-164	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group. [[17.00]]
u2014-07-04-165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to justify the position of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary on this package of laws, which contains basically legislative amendments for consumer protection purposes and can be basically supported by the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. Of course, as has already been said here several times, as we are approaching the municipal election campaign, there is certainly a campaign-like part of this, which is often due to excessive and excessive communication of the reduction of the rent. After all, we know and have acknowledged it, because we have supported it, and some of the proposals for reducing the rent have come before Parliament, but we still believe that this reduction is not felt in society as a whole, because there has never been so many people living under the minimum living and in extreme poverty in Hungary as there is now. Therefore, the measure was, in part, a campaign course, an election campaign, which, unfortunately, has not yet made a meaningful improvement in the situation of Hungarian society. We're waiting for the sequel. We hope that, in this cycle, there will indeed be measures of a nature and depth that can bring about a breakthrough in the economic situation and the financial situation of Hungarian society, although I think that the means of doing so may need to be sought in terms of job creation and other economic recovery measures. The other is that it does indeed contain measures for consumer protection and that they are fully eligible. Maybe I'll go into the details, highlight a few things. What seems to be of concern to us is the reduction of the limitation period for public services from a period of five years to a period of two years. We believe that there is a collision here, including a limitation period of five years in relation to the new civil code. If we look at the legislation in detail, we have already talked about the obligation for the public service provider, the website with the Internet information content. This, of course, is welcome and should be supported, because often it is precisely the difficulty of finding a contact point for the service provider, whether it is a contact point or a service area. Of course, they can function properly if they are filled and continuously updated and operated with content that makes this possible. Another important part of this legislative package is to further increase the inclusion of a reduction in the overhead bill. I don't think that's necessary. Here, too, legislation has already been adopted that directly punishes the condominium where the house's advertiser does not publish how much the house's savings have been saved by the reduction measures. We also suggested that, in our opinion, the next step could be to add a new fact to the criminal code to Parliament in order to deny the reduction of the rent. In fact, other measures that can further punish the reduction of the result of the reduction of the rent, as in the case of the condominium billboard, are no longer likely to be able to imagine. Of course, I'm not trying to make a joke. The inclusion in the invoice is or would have been justified if it actually achieves substantial and visible savings for that consumer or if it occurs for that consumer. Unfortunately, this does not always happen. The next part of the legislation I would like to talk about is, in fact, certification that the same organisation cannot carry out certification in two consecutive calendar years, thus repealing this provision. The Act sets out the institutional system for the performance of public tasks related to electronic communications. This is a multi-stakeholder, government, minister, Communications Authority, Hungarian Competition Authority, Consumer Protection Authority, Consumer Protection Authority, Hungary's accession to the European Union, the European Commission and national regulatory authorities in the Member States, so it is a multi-stakeholder regulatory system. Although Community legislation speaks in a narrow manner about requirements for national regulatory authorities, it requires Member States only to be independent of market players, to be impartial and to ensure the financing, personnel and material conditions necessary for the performance of their tasks. The rules of the law on the institutional system and the Hungarian national regulatory authority create a new organisational model. The law provides only the minimum necessary for its operation for the organisational structure of the authority, the effective division of labour, thereby ensuring greater autonomy in the management of the authority in order to establish the structure and division of labour and to adapt more flexibly to changing tasks. As has already been mentioned, 15 days are available for payment of the bill in connection with the Tele Heat Act. This is certainly a welcome initiative, because it is necessary, of course, to ensure the appropriate period of time for it to be mentioned again that the appropriate revenue and the source page should also be available for the payment of the bill, because unfortunately, the problem is not always in the vast majority of Hungarian households that the payment deadline is too soon, but rather that the appropriate amount is not available. Of course, it is not up to the present law to resolve this. This requires a longer-term, once again economic change of perspective. Perhaps I would not mention in more detail the administrative provisions which continue to serve consumer protection reasons and purposes. Under the Consumer Protection Act, the Consumer Protection Authority does not currently have the means to oblige the licensee to apply the specific legal consequences set out in the Business Regulations, so the addition is also justified in order to approximate the procedures of the Agency and the Consumer Protection Authority and to enforce consumer protection interests, as regards the Consumer Protection Act. This legislation still amends a number of laws, including laws on gas supply or waste. In the case of the Gas Supply Act, the same can be said to be the case for administrative amendments. The role of the Consumer Protection Authority in relation to water utilities will be clarified in the water utility service and, in the case of water utility development, municipalities and municipal associations will also be highlighted in the legislation. In the past, only the water utility provider has been mentioned, and this is added in this way. Overall, it can be said without going further into the details and technical rules without a number of administrative clarifications being included in the legislation. There is a reading of this which really serves consumer interests, there is a political part of it, and, overall, we must say that with which the situation of consumers can be facilitated in Hungary today, we will support all measures for Jobbik Hungary on the whole, whether it is a consumer protection law or a specific fee reduction law, we will, of course, always express our criticism about them. I think that, without going into further technical details, we may be able to discuss details at a later stage when the lead speakers are finished. Once and for the last time, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-07-04-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mrs Bernadett Szél, Member of the LMP. [[17.10]]
u2014-07-04-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to disappoint you now either, because "Maybe Other Politics" is the party that has been very critical of the so-called Fidesz regime from the beginning, and we have every reason to do so, because anyone who thinks in a renewable Hungary will not be satisfied with such tricks as you keep putting on the table. Look, I ask you a simple question: if we ask, say, a Hungarian citizen what he thinks is the biggest problem with public services, this interviewed responder would tell us a lot of things. You could now talk about undelivered waste or chimney sweeping services that are not working, or teleheaters that are in danger of bankruptcy, which you know will have to deal with from tax forints, but you wouldn't mention - but I would bet on that - that you have a problem with the billing image, that you don't like the font, the color or the size, I'm absolutely sure of that. Now, if there's an expert there who I ask the same question, and I ask him where his opinion is that the regulation is problematic and where it should be put in order to be better, then it would highlight a very simple context: if someone intervenes in such a system by simultaneously increasing costs, for example, by introducing new taxes and charges, and on the other hand, by setting a price level below the costs, then - to put it so simply - this whole system will come to its head in a short time. And the problem here is that we are talking about a country, and if a country turns upside down, we will certainly be facing national economy problems in the short term. By the way, the short distance has arrived. As part of your so-called reduction in public service costs, the price of public services fell for the first time last year, but we are already hearing that there are complete sectors on the verge of failure, which is a very serious problem, because you can say the rhetoric of the freedom fighter, but who will pay the price here at the end, we will be Hungarian tax-paying citizens. It's as simple as that. I'll give you some examples, I've collected them. For example, here is the waste management - the state and municipal sector - and there is already a loss of 15 billion. Now, this is also particularly interesting because there was the competent minister who himself admitted at his parliamentary hearing that disaster management had to intervene and forced service providers had to be appointed in order to remedy this unpleasant situation. Then there are the water suppliers: 5.4 billion, district heat: 42 billion, compensation was required, chimney sweep stopped in 7 counties. So, look, you can think about what this whole reduction in rent means for you in a way that means communication, but for me, it is important that this country is operational in the long term, and that Hungarian people can use adequate public services, in a good quality, they are affordable. And here we have to come back to a problem that we will talk about later, but it is really about the fact that in Hungary people who have a job are earning very little. Now, we need to work here to build a system of economic policy in the country so that people can earn a decent income and pay for the different uses of income, so to speak. 'Cause what you guys did was basically build a bad economic policy, and there's big corruption, it all costs money, the budget's gone, we need adjustments, we've got special taxes. At the same time, it is really interesting to hear how many different aspects of this regime can be presented to the voters and to the Parliament, but it is an extremely simple matter that public interventions have led to higher costs for the service providers, and you have set the price below this level, and from now on the consequences are unpredictable. So, there's a logic you can't really override. And by the way, I looked into it, because I was really interested in where your rucksack is, and I can see that it doesn't really stop, so we're not good at gas prices at all, today we have to pay more for gas than we did four years ago, most of the time, in terms of sewer and garbage fees, it's even worse than that, and water prices are pretty much tied. I know I'm talking about heretics, and I'm sure you'll show the opposite, but the thing is, you're not going to achieve a goal. It is a useful weapon for communication, I acknowledge that, but people do not want a public relations government in Hungary, but a responsible decision-making body that sees ahead of its nose and can adjust our affairs in such a way that the whole system does not fall on us in the long term, but that it is safe, accessible public services and that Hungarian people can pay for them. And this is my problem. If you create a system in which the companies involved will save on development and maintenance, they will actually produce a toxic cocktail. So there will be a price regulation on one side and on the other, a cost financing based on special taxes. The consequences of this are imperceptible. Quite simply, there is a system here where people do not pay the real price for the service, and this difference must always be made by someone. And it will always be the Hungarian citizen in this country. So you can submit various legislative proposals here - and then I will be able to support a few points - and you can train reps, set up charges, run websites that promote reduced prices, change account pictures, and I can already understand a number of changes in account pictures with you in Parliament. Seriously, when the voters at home asked me if we really talked about what the bill looked like, I didn't start laughing first, they did. I don't know what you think we're talking about here all the time, what a bill looks like. There are more important things in this country. There are also mines or places in this law that can become mines. For example, the mandatory certification of electronic invoicing is a very interesting story, and I will be very careful to see who will benefit here. I'm used to the Fidesz administration being able to create a new market for friendly business. I really hope that's not what this is about, but I'm going to tell you that I'm going to be watching the movements in this market. What I can or can support is, indeed, that the time from receiving the invoice to making the deposit should be 15 days. In this country, I think this is the minimum, so where we stand, as we stand, as incomes, as bled out are not only the poor people, but also the middle class, I think that is the least we can do is let people have the opportunity to pay their bills. By the way, I also liked the fact that they made the transportation of green waste and the disposal of unclaimed waste part of the waste service at first. This is very important, but we already think in opposition that if we ask for something, we need to create a source. I don't really see the source of this, but in case I haven't noticed, let me know, 'cause I'm wondering if you're gonna pay for this. 'Cause anyway, I can do anything, and then somebody's gotta do it. And by the way, the need to create non-profit public services has been emerging for a long time now, so it's a process we're in. Here I predict that this May Other is not a devil's idea for Politics, so it is a fully eligible operation when we make the provider interested in turning his profits back into development and maintenance. If, on the other hand, a picture emerges from this story that there is no need to provide resources for development and maintenance, then it is a simple loss of wealth that will sooner or later be paid again by Hungarian citizens, so it is another story that we will not be able to support. There are a lot of these at Fidesz - I've been following the government for a while now - that at first it looks like something's moving in the right direction, and then they just put a turn that turns it all out that it's not gonna work. I think that there are international good examples, that we should learn from them. The May Other Politics has always thought about a system where local governments play an important role, renewable energy sources play an important role, because we are already the 21st. We made it to the end of the century, and we considered the non-profit community models absolutely useful. How you think about it, how you see it, and how it will be possible, but I don't know because you didn't tell us this, and from now on I don't know if this solution will be sustainable. I would expect, however, that, with your support - always boasting of it - that if there was no government program, then information about the individual programs that are on their spiritual horizons, so that it can be really appreciated and, if necessary, engage in a constructive dialogue, because I say that if there is a non-profit public service, it is not, in itself, an idea of a devil, but the devil is always in detail. So that's what I'd like to see, how this system would work in this country. By the way, it is already a warning to us that the current public services currently in operation are expensive, less measurable performance, but there is a very low level of innovation in the country, and what is our continuing problem in many areas is a low level of transparency. I dare to conclude from this that once again, it will not be that smart solutions will spread, which will improve energy saving, and they will play the main role, but will go towards such political considerations and opaque funding. [[17.20]] One thing is certain that the consumer will not be able to come out of this game, and the Hungarian people will not be able to come out of this either. Overall, I think that we can see here a bill of very many elements, there are elements that are good, but overall, the problem is that with the whole reduction of the rent, and this, as time goes by, is getting worse. Thank you.
u2014-07-04-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask Mrs Selényi if she wishes to comment as an independent person. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi: No, thank you.]] I assume you're here to speak after the agenda. No two-minute speeches. We now have further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2014-07-04-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I have also reviewed this proposal through my own glasses, and I have the courage to say that we have a reduction in the cost, a reduction in the cost, and a reduction in the cost! I am very pleased that the government wants to do so much for the Hungarian population and for the Hungarian public good, but at the same time I would like to draw attention to some professional concerns, some minor problems and clarifications. The reduction of the rent is an excellent thing, it can be campaigned very well, it is very good before the municipal elections, and it is very easy to give it from someone else's, because obviously, if we want to destroy the public services and nationalise them, then the good thing is that they will be destroyed as soon as possible, because they will be insolvent, but the Hungarian people might be in a good way. This is the great common good that we have talked about here, and it has been said in this speech, and it is interesting to me because there are basically different options for resolving the reduction of costs. For me, it gives me a very small situational picantria that Member Bencsik, Vice-President of the Committee on Sustainable Development, the Head of the Adaptation Centre, who is broadly professionally competent and competently aware of the fact that reducing emissions, the need for possible energy supply, would not contribute to reducing energy prices, if we were to use less. There are two ways to reduce the rent. One is that we have to pay less, but we use the same amount, and we do nothing to encourage people to consume less, and we have the idea of starting to insulate rural dwellings, and we start supporting building technical developments; it is possible to reduce overhead. I must be honest with you that I would show significantly greater support in addition to the latter, because the latter would have been what would have been possible in a sustainable way, without destroying the public services and without having to spend additional tax money to finance the losses of public service providers. It would be a sustainable reduction in demand if we could reduce the amount of consumption. I will submit proposals for amendments and they will be received by the rapporteur. I really need you to accept that I'm doing all of this in good faith and in good faith. I have looked through the whole thing, the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act puts public service activities under new requirements and requires it to ensure online access in each region after its entry into force. This is, in my view, unviable for all public services. My fellow Jobbik Members have often said here how low online access is in the country, how difficult it is to ensure, and there are a number of regions where this proposal does not necessarily help access. There are regions where the online use culture is very, very bad at all. This would be a very rapid and dynamic step to genuinely serve consumer protection objectives, as the author thinks. The second is that in the present proposal there is a need to create a separate website by public service activity; I hope I have read it well. This can be particularly bad for service providers where, let's say, there is also waste management, water utilities, funerals, park maintenance - we see these in a number of municipalities - because this includes maintaining and costing so many separate online surfaces. I do not think that this common good has much effect, and I do not know what to explain; perhaps that it can have an economic or economic impact, because IT companies may have to pay more. When amending the Electronic Communications Act, the IT certification of the invoicing system is uniformly required by the amendment. Again, I would be very interested to know who examined the economic impact or cost of this, how it was done. For small and medium-sized enterprises, this could be a serious administrative burden, which is again something that might reduce the effectiveness of implementation. Article 13 of the amendment to the Waste Management Act § (1) appears to be a completely wrong solution. This is about imposing recovery on individuals and natural persons. This may be very bad because in many small settlements the municipality pays the public service fee instead of the population. We can give many, many examples of this, in North Hungary, Southeast Hungary, Baranya, Somogy, Zala, where the municipality clearly pays the public service fee and then collects it as a communal tax or otherwise. At the moment, this regulation and this amendment motion will result in the local government not being able to pay the public service fee instead of the population, and there will be an increase in the share of the population due to the fact that so far the municipality has paid a single communal tax and now has to pay a separate new fee. I call for this to be considered because, in my view, this could be entirely contrary to the original aims of the proposer. The following is of the same importance to impose a quarterly billing fee. In this connection, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is currently a six-month or annual charging practice in many settlements. This is because the municipal size determines the extent of the recovery costs, and there may be recovery sizes, obviously in small settlements, where the cost of recovery is more than the amount to be collected. It would be good if the legislator did not try to influence such cases without taking into account local specific knowledge, because where this annual and semi-annual system was established, it was clearly due to cost-effectiveness that the collection costs did not exceed the amounts collected. The transformation of the billing system can also lead to an increase in outstanding amounts and back payments. For the first time, this can logically be the result of the fact that in the field of waste management public services, there are currently between 3 and 5 billion operators, and the invoicing system may be able to increase this with this restructuring. If the government's goal is to destroy public services and nationalise them, then this is a good tool, but if this is not a goal, then it may be worth considering. The increase in outstanding liabilities clearly leads to the need for the disaster management authority to intervene in more settlements and to use it to ensure the disposal of waste. According to the public service register, at the moment almost 300 municipalities use the help of these bodies to transport garbage. This will not be a permanent and sustainable system, so it would also be worth considering. The bill is 13. Paragraph 3 at first glance is completely contrary to paragraph 37. In addition, if a person is not a public service, he shall no longer be able to process the personal data of the public service provider. Here's a logical buffet for the proposal. The regulation of this is an unfulfilled task for the public sector, as it imposes an obligation which it cannot legally do. It's just an interesting thing. The bill is 13. § 4 is already included in Section 91. Paragraph 2d, i.e. practically the same paragraph, is repeated once more in the legislation. I do not know if repeating this clause will help reduce the cost of the rent, reduce the burden on the population, but if the same section is included twice in the legislation, it may not be significantly lucky. The bill is 13. Paragraph 4 of Section 4 is unnecessary because of the previous ones, which provides for quarterly invoicing once again, which I have already mentioned, which may entail problems and additional costs. The most important thing - while respecting all consumer protection objectives - is that it would be very good if the entry into force could be extended at least by the beginning of the following year, because the creation of all online platforms and the restructuring of the billing system will certainly take time from the public services. There's one more interesting thing. I would just like to say this because, in order to ensure some consistency, I would like the Government not to apply double standards or to apply this approach elsewhere. [[17 .30]] Article 15 of the Law on the implementation of the reduction in premiums. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 refers back to the regulation relating to the assignment of the claim, so that, in fact, substantial steps can be taken beyond one year. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, which you promised to strengthen and support this week at a chocolate factory, the Prime Minister would significantly help you to apply the same approach to both public and employer charges. At the moment, the state is not working with this approach, but by inquiring on the 15th of the following month if any burden on the employer or employee is not paid in. A possible take-over of this approach would be a good thing. In the end, there is only foam on the cake, and it is a pleasant thing to do in implementing the legislation on the reduction of costs, because from now on it will keep a detailed record of the amount of savings, which occurs in the reduction of costs. In the spring of 2018 there will be a little theoretical savings for all people that they don't get, they just saved. This is a very sweet campaign opportunity, and it is very good that public services can also be used for this. I also wanted to suggest that it might be possible to do this with regard to the pension, that it should be on every pension coupon, how much we have added over the years. In every subsequent increase in salary in Hungary, it should be mandatory to know how much we raised under the government, and then this will create a lot of additional opportunities for such campaigns. Overall, consumer protection efforts should be supported. I would ask the honourable author to consider the amendments in the course of next week, in order to see if there are some that might be applicable, and perhaps I would also like to recommend to the honourable members of the Government that the change in approach that would reduce the amount of energy consumed and not the price, perhaps by what means can be done. On the structural basis of the next period, it can easily be done with a larger amount of aid to ensure that the consumption of electricity is in fact significantly lower. I would also like to offer the same approach with great respect to the attention of the government that, if a significant part of the population cannot pay their rent, a reduction in the regime value is not enough to tackle poverty. We should certainly look at whether structural resources for the development of the economy are intended to improve employment, or whether the aim is to maintain this community-based society, because obviously we will not be able to reduce the rent so much. Even if we come back here every six months or every campaign period, we still won't be able to keep up with poverty. I would therefore ask the honourable author to consider these and, if possible, to introduce these changes in the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Kiss, MSZP.
u2014-07-04-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen. Dear House, Let me just go on with a few of the things that have come up here. Sustainability is indeed a very important issue that my colleague Sallai mentioned earlier. Let me illustrate this with just one example as a simple Óbuda, III. district paneler. Let me tell you that district heating has been reduced by 15-20 thousand forints a year due to the reduction of the overhead. At the time when the heating of the house was otherwise regulated according to sustainability, there was only a difference of 38 thousand forints on average in the panel where I live last year. So this clearly shows that when someone talks about sustainability as important in this context, they are actually banging open doors, because it can be quantified that a financial reduction in terms of something that will be taken away by the first economic crisis, which will reach us, will result in significantly less savings than sustainable renovation programmes. I don't want to talk about the fact that even the annual increase in milk was about 10 thousand forints minus the average III. Districts. I don't want to go into this number war. Let's just stay on the floor of the motion. It's very, very important what happens to the award backers. It is only one side of the fact that the award backs were obviously helped by the decline in the fees, but the reality is that, with the new capital leadership in 2010 in the capital, the new capital leadership has destroyed the system in which the back-of-chargers could reschedule their debts in an integrated system, and in which all the metropolitan utility companies and the Metropolitan Municipality were partners, it has done more harm to the back-of-chargers than anyone else. However, this is a very important thing that we have to say here, so, in addition to responding here, it is important that some of the award-backs are indeed in a better position, tens of thousands of metropolitans have been badly affected by this kind of measure. There are a lot of complaints - and this is what I talked about at the end of the previous round - about invoices that they are not transparent. I believe that you have good intentions in this area, and that you are trying to regulate the accounts in one way or another, sometimes in a really comical way, to make them more transparent. But the reality is, after all, what Mr Secretary of State has said, and what I, as an individual Member, hear every day, or what I see as a consumer every day, that these accounts are far from what can be called transparent. The simple Hungarian man does not know what is on his rent account. If you look at it superficially, you think that the service providers are entertaining us with all the tasks, but if you look at the laws, you will see that that is not the case, but that the government has determined exactly what is to be included in these accounts, which I believe the government has done only because of the public's purely good intentions, but the result is that the accounts are more opaque than before. I think there is a need to face the facts in this matter. If you are experiencing what I am experiencing in my individual reception hours, the problem here is the biggest, I think that if we are dealing with the remedying of residential complaints, that is what we are dealing with. Then our job is not to complicate this account any more, it is not to make these accounts even more opaque, but to simplify them. I think this would be a direction in which everyone in this House might agree. It is an important question whether the provider, the consumer or any of the actors in this story are enemies of anyone. I myself considered the approach that my fellow Member, Bencsik, who has left here since then, said that we need responsible behaviour from both the service provider and the consumer. That's what I think. It is responsible conduct in all areas of civil law or in everyday life, and good faith behaviour, that can be expected of all. As a result, I feel that it is not right to consider any of the actors, whether by nature the service provider, as an enemy, or as an enemy by nature, to consider the consumer to be an enemy. It is not right to take the view of the provider that, yes, these are the evil people who are dragging down the population here, who are trying to draw millions out of them at all costs, and the opposite is not right, that yes, the consumer is the one who wants to harm the state or anyone else at all costs. In this matter, I think we need greater responsibility from those who speak on the part of the government or on the part of Fidesz, because the approach that sought and found enemies in the service provider is very, very harmful. Perhaps such an approach may be behind increased residential complaints. I don't know, I hope not. So I would very much like to see my fellow Member Benchik take this approach and try not to fight this kind of war but really work together for the interests of consumers. The Hungarian Socialist Party is in favour of Hungarian consumers on this issue, so any rules that actually represent the interests of consumers are important to us in the proposal. That's what I told you. The interests of consumers are in fact represented by the 15-day solution that could be discussed and indeed represent the interests of consumers in Internet accessibility. But I think we're wrong if we want to catch too much. I would like to suggest to you that you consider not imposing these laws. I went up to Csepel's website out of curiosity, for example, that if I were a Csepel citizen - I am not - I would be able to find the legislation for me thematically, for example, if I could look for it thematically. My apologies to the III. I'm from a district council because I can be critical of this. The municipality of Csepel published its decrees on its website in a much better system than the one published by the third party. It's a district council. [[17.40]] However, I can say that although content suggests that the website of the local government in Csepel has selected its regulations, I could not continue the thematic search. So if I were a representative of the service provider and had the task of having my boss choose those laws in Csepel, the regulations that apply to the given utility company, that service provider, I could hardly do that. But it's much worse than that, for example, let me mention again self - critically the third. district council, where I wouldn't even get that much help looking for it. Well, the fact is that we expect the service providers to do something that the municipalities themselves cannot provide. I feel that it is not right in itself. What, though, is the purpose? I think if we sincerely believe that the objective of this piece of legislation is to really inform consumers about the issues that really affect them, then I have a strong suspicion that a few dozen inaccessible packages of regulations could be inadequate. The simple consumer is not a lawyer. If we give the simple consumer five years back a mass of data, a mass of legislation, to come out of this reality, it will not succeed. I understand the objective that you want to serve in this matter, but accept that, as the accounts are already overcrowded, these websites become overcrowded with unimportant, unreal, unimportant information. Similarly, we can talk about the fact that the Hungarian Electricity Company as a service provider is generally not mentioned in the Hungarian Resik struggle. It is also interesting to mention here that this is the company that has acquired extra profit in recent years as the only one, if you like, from the power companies. We're talking 16 billion forints, aren't we? I therefore believe that when my fellow Member, Mr Benedek, says that it is, of course, very easy to benefit from someone else's charity, because it is a question of private companies, while obliging them to pay off their profits and even to impose on them, in the spirit of government propaganda, that they have to write out how much savings the population has, while these companies have lost in this crisis. Apart from that, however, the profits of the Hungarian Electric Works come from this struggle. So there's a company connected to the government that closes this debt with a profit of HUF 16 billion. I don't think that's the right thing to do. Finally, I can tell you that there are quite a number of regulations in this proposal before us that are really in the interests of consumers. I don't think there's a debate between those sitting here. There is no debate, for there really are some that represent the interests of people, which really respond to everyday complaints. If we can separate proposals that are really like this from each other and those that are not, come in with ulterior motives, or accept it, be naive, there is no ulterior motive to prescribe a quality assurance system for issuing a simple account that would hold up with the National Security Office, if there is no ulterior motive, then let us not look for an ulterior motive here. Then let us accept that this is an over-insurance of this law. This is not the purpose of what you have set out here. If, therefore, we can strip this law of the slangs that really do not intend to be here, which really is not the purpose of what you have set as a purpose, then we can support it. If it is indeed a law that reflects consumer interests, if we do not push the consumer to death with a crowd of unnecessary data, if we do not consider the provider to be an idiot, and we do not give him homework by constantly digging into the constantly changing rules of all municipalities, then I think we are on a better track. The extent to which this regulatory inaccuracy is present to you, your presentation states that the rules of business, the current rules of business, must be imposed on these operators. The common man thinks it's okay, of course. Well, if there's a service, then it's perfectly right to have the policy to get to know it, to go to a website, to look at it there. In fact, I would say more than that, and I would also consider it acceptable to publish this regulation to these companies in such a way that, where appropriate, there would be a helpful explanation for consumers to understand what this is all about. I'll take that, too. However, it should be noted that in recent years, by changing the general business conditions almost weekly or monthly, you have prevented these companies from having an up-to-date business code. So in each of them, these amendments should have been or should have been transposed, which you have sometimes made ad hocly. So if you undertake to stop this kind of twitching of the system, then, of course, companies can be expected to publish the valid regulations. But if there is a policy that is no longer valid when someone makes it and puts it on the website because it had to be changed quickly because of a changing legislation, then we see that this expectation is not very correct. So it is important that, in this case, if we expect the service providers to be up-to-date, if we expect them to put in place a business code that a common person, whether I or anyone else who does not have this profession, understands, it is also very important that the legal environment does not change in such a way that they have to constantly modify the business rules themselves. I think it's the least I can expect. If this legislation can change, if you accept our amendments and the well-intentioned amendments of the other parties that really protect consumer interests, which are really for the Hungarian consumer, then I think that there will be legislation that everyone in this House can support. I therefore recommend to consider the aspects that we and the others have presented here, because I think there are a great number of people among us who have been able to make proposals that the government may have accepted. I would ask you to consider these proposals, together make the proposal before us better, because this is to prove that everyone is on the Hungarian consumer's side. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-07-04-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr István Szilárd Németh if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Yeah, he's getting ready. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-07-04-173	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly. Thank you very much for your comments and suggestions. I would like to reiterate that there is a threefold purpose to this bill, nothing else. So there is nothing philosophical, nothing moral, nothing scientific in this bill but that we have collected the proposals, problems, announcements that the population has sent us. That means thousands of connections. These were classified by the working group I led and, where we felt that there was a need and a means to do so, an opportunity to legislate on some important consumer protection measures, we have now done so in this package of laws. That's all, it's that simple. We wanted to achieve nothing more than to serve the interests of consumers, to protect them from overpowering, abuse, neglect of dominant service providers, and, if possible, to develop a form of behaviour in this public service market or in the public service sphere that promotes consumers' conscious lifestyles, conscious behaviour and decisions. That's all there was to it. That is why we have decided on certain communication requirements, and therefore we have decided on contact obligations. That's why we decided where big money is involved... - because for ordinary people, it is a great deal of money if, because of a late payment, which wasn't the result of their delay or their will, they are necessarily charged thousands of forints in fines. Then they roll it around, and at the end of the year, a bald man shows up and says he's the debt manager, and by the way, he's a collector, because he's well-known from the local pub, and now he has to pay 80,000 forints. So that's what we wanted to deal with. I would like to draw your attention to a few things, sir, as a teacher myself, so I think we can talk together. [[17.50]] Therefore, do not encourage his disciples to make the III. or XXI. on a district website in the capital for regulations relating to public services. This will be found on budapest.hu because there are two levels of government in the capital city, and public services fall within the competence of the Municipality of Budapest, and the Municipality of Budapest owns these public service companies to a large extent. Now there's a little market reorganization, but I think that life will solve it. The reason we don't deal with MVM is because MVM doesn't have universal service. MVM, if it wants to provide retail services - there are also places where it can go below the market price or below the price of the universal service, there was such a period, so Telekom also jumped to this market anyway - it can operate with free market instruments, so it is not mentioned in this matter of overhead. I would also like to ask my fellow Members of the LMP to thank you very much for the comments and proposals, which I hope will be sent in writing, but I would ask that they do not do so five minutes earlier, as the bill has now been memorized here before the debate, and we have been banged into the clay here with a large, sweeping, scientific-looking presentation, they think. So I don't think it's worth it. It's worth more than that. It is worth more consumer protection, it is worth more to deal with consumers than to have such great revelations here in the Hungarian Parliament, otherwise it has neither the beginning nor the beginning. Once again, I thank you for your comments, and once again I urge everyone, my fellow Members and Hungarian citizens, consumers, consumer associations, professional organisations, associations of interests, to make proposals and send them to us in the next two and a half months to improve their intentions for consumers. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2014-07-04-174	Thank you, Mr Szilárd Németh. Dear Parliament, The amendments can be submitted on Wednesday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now up to the speeches after the agenda, and 11 Members have indicated that they would like to express their thoughts in a speech after the agenda. Sándor Szabó, MEP MSZP, applied for a speech after today's agenda: "Thank you for the service of the public. " The title is given below. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-07-04-175	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with one detail from Sándor Márai's Grassbook about offices and officials: " It is the best official and the most perfect office that does not disturb life too much. The one who doesn't act too much. If they negotiate with each other, life and office, they make about fifty percent of an agreement and they don't hurt each other too much: that's the most. But only very advanced, overripe societies and offices are able to do so. " Why did I begin with this detail, my fellow Members? Because we all know in this House that the 1st of July was the public service civil servants' day, which was this week, Tuesday, and I think that especially here in the Parliament, and especially for us Members, whose decisions are very important for public servants, we should and should pay a few minutes' attention. This time we welcome all civil servants, civil servants, government officials and, of course, all employees working in the public administration of Hungary with respect to their work. It can be said with conviction that workers in this area meet the growing requirements. Citizens have a legitimate expectation of a high level of professional preparedness, empathy, conscience and, above all, customer-centred administration. The practitioners of this profession do their work day by day, they are aware of the responsibility of serving the population, the clients and the state, and the enforcement of the common good. Public servants, civil servants, government officials should be recognised, thanked and respected by society for the responsible exercise of their civil service. Although the public administration serves the country at an appropriate level, this is not reflected in the remuneration of those who do the work. Today has already been mentioned: in recent years, the income situation of around 660,000 people working in the public service has deteriorated, and there have been adverse changes in the living and working conditions of public officials. For more than half a decade, there has been no general wage development, the salaries are unchanged, the real value of the actions has decreased, and unfortunately, the daily livelihood problems have also appeared in this workforce. The decline in the real value of public employment income was higher than the decline in economic performance and contrary to the increasing work performance of the public sector. This situation can also lead to negative changes in the quality of public services within a short period of time. I therefore join and support the request made by the Hungarian Public Officials, Civil Service Workers' Union and the Federation of Civil Service Trade Unions, which strongly invites the Government of Hungary as an employer to increase and increase frozen public service salaries for the sixth year. Public service wage planning is not only a question of interest protection, employee protection, but also of fundamental professional policy and interest. The current generation shift makes a significant improvement in the income situation particularly pronounced, because it is only possible to manage and maintain young, prepared professionals on the public service track with competitive salaries. We have a duty here, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure that as many people as possible choose the public service of their profession. And last but not least, let me wish the Szeged people first, but, of course, all public service officials and employees working in the Hungarian administration, good work, further professional success and good health. Thank you for listening.
u2014-07-04-176	Thank you, Congressman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. István Józsa: It's bad enough!]] Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Kiss applied for a speech entitled "The Hungarian Crypt Care. " You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-07-04-177	Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! Today, for the second time, although it is summer vacation, it is still my narrower profession, the teaching of history that emerges. To reassure everyone, I do not plan such speeches in the month of July-August [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] But today I think that... some people get the joke, some people say the joke, some people don't understand the joke. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-07-04-178	Congressman, talk about grave care.
u2014-07-04-179	However, I think that on the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the First World War, it is also worth remembering the care of the war tombs in this House. Institutionalized grave care begins in 1915, it exists since November, obviously based on the horrors of World War I. The year 1917 was the year VIII. The law decreed that the late posterity be grateful to preserve their blessed memory, and I quote literally: those who paid their lives to protect the endangered homeland, and said that each city and village should inherit the names of the heroic dead on a worthy monument, according to the material power of all cities and villages. These things happened accordingly. After World War II, in 1946, the Department of the Ministry of Defence prepared a draft to restore and maintain the Hungarian soldiers' graves at state expense, and to bring home and to bury the remains of Hungarian soldiers who died outside the country. The Soviet Union requested a special status and treatment resulting from the status of the winner. Several laws provided for the exceptional situation of Soviet military tombs and monuments. I quote literally the nineth year of 1945 on the recording of the memory of Soviet soldiers lost in the liberation of the Budapest capital. law, once again I quote it literally: "The memory of the Soviet heroes who died at the liberation of the Budapest capital was put into law as a sign of his gratitude and mercy, and he inherited the memory of the Soviet heroes who died at the liberation of the Budapest capital by setting up the central monument of Szabadság tér. " [[18.00]] However, military cemeteries are tended not only in the capital, but throughout the country, in rural settlements, even small settlements. However, the change of regime has led to a fundamental change of approach in this area. Hungary has concluded a bilateral government agreement governing the provision of war grave care with a number of states, taking into account the '49 Geneva Conventions. As a result, the status of foreign burial sites in Hungary is organized and its protection is guaranteed today. At the same time, the comprehensive and appropriate legal regulation of the Hungarian military tombs has been waiting for a very long time. Within the Ministry of Defence, the Honvéd Tradition Office was founded in '93,'since October 97, the Military Care Office. However, the structure has constantly changed,'this office will be terminated from November 99 and a new one will begin its operation within the framework of the Institute of Military History and Museum. The Hadisírzérőző Office will later operate at the level of the department and then the board of directors. On the one hand, the organization continues its predecessor's activities with regard to Hungarian soldiers' graves in Germany and Russia, on the other hand, it places greater weight on the care of Hungarian soldiers' cemeteries and soldiers' graves located within and outside the borders, as well as military monuments and memorials. As of 2010, the defense leadership wanted to raise the issue of grave care to a higher level, so in October 2010 the Ministry of Defence's Office for Social Relations and Military Care was established, which has been transformed again into the Military Traditional and Military Care Department of HM since 2011, which was again transformed into a surprise in 2012. I can say that, in addition to such transformation, I can admire the soldiers, the people, the civilians who took part in the Hungarian cemetery care, because at so many organisational levels, in such an untraceable transformation, I believe that these soldiers, these civil servants and the people of everyday life could only carry on the issue of Hungarian grave care with their sacrifice. Today, however, the Department operates Facebook and website www.hadisir.hu. This website contains information about the fallen: whether the deceased are labor workers or the deceased soldiers, and the website also deals specifically with the fallen soldiers of World War I. However, there is a painful lack of significant progress on the 1848-49 war tombs. It is obviously difficult for historians, soldiers, to have a unified record of the fallen in the struggle for revolution and freedom, and therefore the care of the '48-49 graves or the finding of them is also a serious problem. It would be a state task if we could also create a proper tradition for the maintenance of the '48-49 revolution and freedom fight by the Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and his heroes in Hungarian soil would also receive a suitable grave. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-180	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform you that the representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the MSZP Group, spoke after the agenda: " Why is only a fraction of children in need getting a summer social meal? " with the title " You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-07-04-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I didn't want to go on summer vacation without bringing this up again, because one of the most important topics for me is helping poor children. Let's start with the programme against child poverty, for which we developed a 25-year strategy, which Fidesz voted in 2007 and stopped after it came to government. State Secretary Bence Rétvári, in his reply to my interpellation, stated a number of untruths. Secretary of State said that we spent only HUF 8 billion on the programme. Where he might have gotten that number, it's not there. In this material, which appeared shortly after the start of the program, and which is recorded among other things by Zsuzsa Ferge, this number is given for 2008. It is also described, however, that in 2007 the government spent approximately HUF 30 billion on reducing child poverty. This was not what the professionals expected, but it is much more than you have spent the past four years, fidesz, trying to eliminate this poverty. I might also mention that the hateful family allowance that you put in such a quotation mark was last raised under the socialist government, which was due to all children, unlike the family tax relief. But I would rather go back to the subject I asked for, the feeding of children in need, on which Mr Secretary of State also provided incorrect data. During our administration, we have raised the number of people entitled to a free meal from cradle to the seventh grade student. All you've done is push this up to 8th grade. Perhaps it is because they think that there is no longer any reason, because you poor children are second-rate, you don't have to go to school, you don't have to study. With regard to the summer meal, the words of the Secretary of State do not cover the reality, as the amount of resources allocated to the operation of the system has increased significantly during our administration. In 2002, we provided food for 30,000 children out of 200 million forints, and more than 100,000 children out of 1.2 billion forints from 2006 for 30 days. In 2009, this amount doubled, from this point 120,000 children of HUF 2.4 billion received the support for 54 days, which essentially covered the entire summer vacation period. It is therefore not true that this amount would have increased only in the year of the election, that the extension of the period would be due to the current government. In fact, you have only raised the framework this year, in the year of the election, with only HUF 240 million. But that is not the important thing, whether we have done more for the children before you. You are on the government, and it is your opportunity and your responsibility to do everything possible for children's chances of rising, or, as you like to put it, to catch up. However, neither the country nor we can see that they will do anything. We do not see child hunger being eliminated, we do not see that they provide social meals for every child in need in the summer. We do not see that at least minimum wage jobs would be created in areas that are lagging behind. We do not see any increase in the support of the poorest. As long as elderly patients who are helpless and unable to care for themselves are obliged to provide care and hot food for these people for 365 days of the year, which is very good, summer social meals for children in need are not important for today's government. About 400 thousand children who do not get hot food today in Hungary during summer holidays. I think we can ask again why substantial measures are not taken to reduce child poverty, rather than still pointing back to socialist governments every day. What are they doing to keep no children from starving in Hungary? - perhaps we could answer, I said just now that there is not much; and when will they finally solve this very serious problem, so that in summer children in need, all children will have a meal? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-07-04-182	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, On behalf of Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné, Group of Jobbik, she applied for a post-meeting speech: " Hungary is for sale, offshore companies have a preference! " with the title " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-07-04-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In 2007, an offshore company named Camfield, partly registered in Seychelles and partly registered in the USA, purchased a land property of the size of 100 hectares from the Metropolitan Waterworks. Then a few months later, the Hungarian state bought back part of this area because of the construction of the M0. While in the case of the former sale, Camfield came to the ground at a surprisingly reasonable price, the purchase price at the time of the take-back was already high, so overall, the offshore company benefited very well. On the basis of a signal from a better member of the Committee for the Control of the Management of Property of Metropolitan Water Works, we have turned to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the above case with a declaration of public interest, as we assumed that there was a gross violation of the provisions restricting the acquisition of land ownership. There was an investigation, and after a long investigation, the response of the BRFK Corruption and Economic Crime Department arrived, and I hold it in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] I quote: " According to the laws in force at the time of the sale, Camfield Kft. could not have obtained ownership. " - because the company could not own Hungarian land then or now. [[18.10]] " There is no doubt that certain private standards have been violated by sales, " concludes the investigating authority, "but since the Metropolitan Waterworks have met other formal requirements regarding the conclusion of the transaction, such as a preliminary valuation and even competitive tendering, the police say there is nothing to do. And as we read in the decision to close the investigation, " Taking all the circumstances into account, the Metropolitan Waterworks acted properly and made a favorable deal. " [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] You might think that this is the most cynical sentence we can certainly not read in this text, which is a history of law, but if we read it further, we could see that we were wrong: there is even lower. There is nothing wrong with the fact that the two legal transactions, i.e. the purchase of the land of Camfield from the Waterworks and the partial buy-back of the Hungarian state, have been six times the price of the land in this area for some paranormal reason, so the offshore company has realised a significant profit. The law enforcement authority almost excuses the parties to the legal transaction, saying that Camfield did not ask for such a peppery price for the land, but that the Hungarian state offered 200 million to the offshore company, which it obviously took into consideration with respect. When describing the story, we need to address where this property is located here and now. Szigetszentmiklós, along the Soroksári-Duna branch and M0. Among other things, there is a well for the extraction of drinking water with high yields. Overall, we can say that it is a property of strategic importance. It is well known that the design of the M0 goes back decades. Thus, in 2007, when the property was alienated by the Metropolitan Waterworks, the trail was well known. At that time, the FVM was only 75%, but it was municipal property. So we can rightly ask: has no one in the Metropolitan Assembly noticed what is happening around the House of Waterworks? Of course, the question is poetic, because we're talking about the Demszky regime. The more outrageous and disappointing is that the law enforcement authority of the Fidesz government, claiming to be national, is now on the side of criminals. Sunnyin looks the other way when he experiences obvious violations and the fact that the prosecutors responsible for the investigation, acting under the authority of the public interest, take effective action is not an issue. Dear House, If Fidesz is unable to do so, Jobbik will continue to fight on public property in order to protect the Hungarian soil, we will take the necessary legal steps and demand that the Hungarian authorities operate in accordance with their legal obligations and not party goals. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-07-04-184	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you that the government has not responded to the intention to speak. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, from the Jobbik Group, asked for a speech: " A word has been called to the desert. Do you know, Mr. Pintér, Minister of Interior, that you also owe the Grand Commonwealth a promise? " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2014-07-04-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The unreconfirmed promise by everyone is already known to Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, that he will clean up Hungary within two weeks. However, not only in 2010, the Minister of the Interior made an unsavory promise, but also in 2001, 13 years ago when he promised that a new police station would be built in Karcag within a short period of time. He based the statement and the claim on legitimate expectations, which were as follows. The area of competence of the Karcagi Police Department covers a number of large-scale agricultural towns, large villages, villages, whose public order and public security were challenged at national level in 2001, it is enough to examine Kunhegyes, Kunmadaras or the management centre, Karcago, and to think of Karcagra. In addition, the Karcag precinct was completed in 1912 and was still considered modern, but since then it has not been renovated, it has moved to a sublet. One of the main reasons for the initial plans was the need for a new precinct, because the rental, which is in fact a quarter of the city hall, does not meet the professional requirements of the police and the challenges of the age. Following the promise, the state's measures on the new Karcag Police Department building have progressed with the usual slow pace. As an example of this, a press report from 2005 states: "Since 2001, the municipality has been negotiating with the Ministry of the Interior about the placement of the city police station, and as a new area for the police organisation operating in the current municipal lease, experts found the area bordered by Attila József Street, Széchenyi Avenue to be the most suitable area, " recalled the mayor of that time, current minister Sándor Fazekas. The city has acquired the ownership of six smaller plots in order to make available the 3000 sq m area. After that, almost no year went by without the topic of start-up and completion of the investment. Every year, a new promise was made for the construction of the Police Department's public safety year-end. Regardless of party standing, all governments and ministers have been very promising to resolve the matter that had already been going on for nearly a decade, following the beginner, frivolous promise of Sándor Pintér. But in 2011, Sándor Pintér repeated that statement when he declared in the presence of the county chief of police that there would be a new police station in Karcagon. And what is the demand that is given? The Karcagi Police Department's annual report on the area of jurisdiction can be easily established, with the number of crimes showing an ever- fluctuating trend in the region, but on a long-term basis. In particular, violent crime against property has increased, such as the Karcagbábik.tv news portal, or even the Alfanew, whose summary articles show that the number of certain crimes has doubled from 2011 to 2012, supported by the police department's public safety report. It's enough to say that the total crime rate has increased by 33 percent, while the number of burglaries has increased by 102 percent. Recent incidents have been the series of robberies against the city's inhabitants, but in recent days, Karcagon has also beaten the paramedic who went out to see a patient, and even Kenderes attacked the law enforcement officers by the local residents, and almost as a victim of violence against the police. There's a huge scale of usury and drug trafficking crimes. I could tell you a number of cases in the area, unfortunately, but I do not wish to spoil the good news of the area. And if we are to think of the increased police presence, it is obvious that this facility has outgrown its framework and that the 100-year lease no longer serves the comforts of those working there. If you visit Karcagi Police Department today, you will meet with deplorable conditions, crumbling walls, half a room full of fallen walls, untimely offices. The situation in the persons involved in the process of arriving is renouncing, reducing public confidence in the police, and the staff working there are both physically and morally uncomfortable with the state of the property. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to the above, to whom it is in your interest to maintain such an unresolved situation. Who is the notary promiser who has not been able to or does not want to act in accordance with his promise for nearly 14 years? What prevents the construction of the new Karcag Police Department with existing land, existing construction plans, when this is required both organisationally and by the number of crimes? With all due respect, it is time for someone to take seriously the implementation of the new building of the Karcagi Police Department, so I ask the government, Mr. Minister of the Interior, through the public, not to delay the implementation of the investment, because whoever does so is not interested in improving and maintaining public security in the countryside. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-07-04-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, from the Jobbik Group, applied for a speech: " The lance mountain of the East or the mark of the East? Or where is the detailed draft of the Budapest-Belgrád railway delayed? " with the title " [[18.20]]
u2014-07-04-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 6 June 2014, Péter Szijjártó, the government commissioner responsible for coordinating bilateral relations between Hungary and China, announced that the preliminary feasibility plan for the investment involving the construction of the railway line connecting Budapest and the Serbian capital will be completed by the end of June, and this document will also present the proposals on the conditions of Chinese credit for an investment of approximately $3 billion. Well, the month's over, but it's still not on the table for taxpayers, it's not exactly a side-by-side plan. If one of the parliamentary parties cannot be accused of anti-railway, it is Jobbik. On numerous occasions, we have stood up for our opinion in every possible forum that the issue of railway development is one of the top priorities of the economy, the Hungarian countryside. We strongly opposed it when the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments executed half a hundred sidelines as a loyal successor to the destruction of the region called the railway network, called the construction of the railway network. And we didn't hide our reprehensible judgment when, despite the promises of the Orbán government, it only restored transport to a fraction of them and reduced flights in many places. In this connection, we did not forget to confront the government with its earlier creed when, in opposition, it was explained that public transport is a public service, not essentially an economical, corporate issue, the state does not favor its rural citizens when it operates the post, school and railway, it is a fundamental state obligation. On behalf of rural people put in a difficult situation, we have said that the statistics of economic surveys before line closures have often been directed to favour the road. We also pointed out that the closure of the sidelines did not entail any substantial savings. We believe that the role of rail is outstanding among the modes of transport, as it is more energy efficient, safer, cost-effective, and lower emissions of pollutants than in the case of road transport or passenger transport. Since its heroic era, the railway has had a huge impact on the economy and society, so development is necessary, but its effectiveness is not irrelevant. We would also appreciate this two-track course, especially if modern trains were speeding at a speed of 160 kilometres per hour. We will be happy to be the mountain of the East, and we would like to see our country become a regional centre for cooperation between China and Central Europe, and we would welcome the new Silk Road through us. But we want to see clearly about a project where we can talk about the total cost of nearly HUF 1000 billion. We want to see it clearly guaranteed that the government can ensure that the current trade balance, which is detrimental to us, will not continue to deteriorate, because currently Hungarian exports to China are only $2 billion a year, whereas Chinese goods are coming to us for more than $5 billion. So it would be foolish to make our own trade balance worse, helping foreign goods to cover our country even more, cutting down our light and manufacturing industry - what is left of it - and, moreover, the government intends to finance this with new loans placed around the neck of Hungarian families. Where are the plans to ensure that our huge external trade deficit is balanced, which guarantee that Hungarian taxpayers do not finance China's economic expansion in our region? Where are the plans to ensure that the construction does not become an extra profit of domestic or foreign oligarchs? I trust that, in a demagogic way, they do not blame the question by saying that our proposal is directed against rail and eastern relations, because that is not the case. We don't want the saying to be true either, that the railway is held together in summer by weeds and in winter by frost. We are willing to acknowledge that even the government may have good initiatives, but taxpayers have the right to know the details. So, let's live on the railroad, let's live on the development, let's live on the eastern connections, but we want to see the plans. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-07-04-188	Thank you, Congressman. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, from the LMP Group, applied: " Who takes responsibility for increasing poverty, for the bled-out middle class? " with the title " You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-07-04-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There could be a lot of people who take responsibility for the fact that more and more people in this country are in an increasingly sad and hopeless situation, yet we now see a number of governments that neither take responsibility nor face reality. The last time we're going through Fidesz is the way he keeps referring to the economic crisis, or the last eight years, when it's actually a 25-year-old story. There have been many promises in this country that have gone, which remain unfulfilled, and what remains is the unfortunate fate of many misfortunes and many Hungarians. This negative trend must be brought to an end. We talk a lot here in Parliament about statistics, but they like to show statistics on the government side that are positive for the government's perception. Let us finally talk about the statistics that make it clear how many aspects of this country are constantly deteriorating. Let's start by saying that social differences continue to grow, in fact the decline has stopped from Bajnai Gordon, and we have been living in this country since the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. We also experience the fact that in the past, people of the middle class, complete social groups, are vulnerable and live in the worst existential fear. No wonder we live in a country where two thirds of workers earn under average wage, and only ten percent of people live on average. Women have lost particularly much in recent years, in recent decades. All I have to say is that we live in a country where a woman who raises a child less than three years old can be kicked out on the street. And 84 percent of families don't have any savings, if anything unexpected happens, trouble, trouble, illness, they can't afford it. Families fear that their teeth will break and they cannot go to a dentist; families fear that if someone we love is in trouble, they cannot help them. We live in a country like this. The measures that have reached this country in recent years speak for themselves. We see that the new labour code has only increased vulnerability in this country, but we also see that the increase in the tax burden of the minimum wage and the extra taxes passed on to the population have only increased the problems of the Hungarian people. In addition, wage increases have fallen behind, hundreds of thousands of people have been left behind by the government's failure to settle wages in the public sector, there has not been a wage increase in the last six years, although inflation has been very significant. We used to live in a country where many people still remember it, where family formation was associated with the hope that we could educate our children so that we could help them move out and start their own lives. What we now see is that parents are happy if they can support their children until graduation, and young people, we see that they are simply unable to get along without serious debt, without borrowing, can't start a family, in many cases they can't get a job, and we see that these young people are going abroad, and they have a painful heart to think that they could have prospered in Hungary as well. Who is responsible for these events? Which government is willing to accept that Hungary has come this far? We are beyond the point where Fidesz can refer to the economic crisis. And as the years pass, they are less and less able to refer to the last eight years, because money, steeds, weapons, they have everything they need to start the process in the right direction. However, communication tricks cannot be used to make a living, these sad statistics and the sadder events behind them cannot be hidden from people's eyes. There was a Fidesz that came to government and said that he was going to create a million jobs here. This was a good proposal, since this country has now been missing a million new jobs for several decades. Now almost the same government has started campaigning undetected with the promise of full employment, with the help of self-proclaimed employment politician János Lázár, but he does not add that these new jobs will be created mostly in public work, which will again be paid by taxpayers. A May Other for Politics Hungary does not have to experience such a trend: we want a different future for the Hungarian people. We joined the Parliament with the "Renewing Hungary " program, we say that by strengthening the capacity to create internal capital in this country, hundreds of thousands of jobs can be created that are crisis-resistant, in the green economy. We have designated the areas where these jobs are, and we should only start using them. We said that exploited, eviscerated workers cannot be built on a strong Hungary, and we say that families will be safe in this country, children will come if we strengthen the situation of women and if we stand by the workers. I ask the honourable government when they will finally face that responsibility. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what these trends mean and when they start to create jobs in this country. [[18.30]]
u2014-07-04-190	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP Group, applied for a post - agenda speech: " Hollywood? ' The title is given below. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-07-04-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, After the 2010 elections, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán appointed American film producer Andrew Vajna of Hungarian origin as the government commissioner responsible for the renewal of the national film industry. He was assigned to reconsider and reform the structure and support system of the Hungarian film industry. He was expected to eliminate operational anomalies in the area and to develop conditions for balanced film production and distribution. The government commissioner's activities are not visible, and what the government commissioner is really doing behind the scenes, the public knows nothing, but unfortunately, the results are very devastating. Apart from one or two real successes, the market share of Hungarian films has fallen enormously over the past four years. The market share of Hungarian works is now only around 1-2 percent, while the share of American films is constantly increasing; last year it reached 80 percent on the basis of data from the European Audiovisual Observatory. Instead of renewal, the Hungarian national film industry is dying. The activity of the Hungarian National Film Fund responsible for filmmaking is completely opaque. There are movies that are supposed to be made, but we don't know where they are. The Film Fund manages a budget of 6 billion a year, but we do not know exactly what these funds are being spent on. If that wasn't enough, there's more and more about domestic filmmaking. It was recently discovered that MVM Paks Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. Last year, he supported the Film Fund with nearly HUF 5 billion, which is a multiplicity of the previous funds. It is not known who or why has decided, nor what compensation is due for this aid. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant has suddenly become a great friend of filmmaking. But is that how other people do it? How much does the casino industry associated with Andrew Vajna support the Hungarian film industry? It also turned out that in recent years several foreign productions have received indirect state aid of billions. Hollywood superproductions received billions of forints, such as Die Hard 5 by Hercules or Intercom of Andrew Vajna's former interest. Other foreign films or series also received hundreds of millions of forints. But was this multi-billion-dollar state aid worth it for Hungary? The productions that were partly filmed in Hungary generated what tax revenue for the budget, who really benefited from the system of film dotations? Whose interests are in this support structure? Is Hungarian filmmaking or serving American film interests really happening? In any case, it is rather revealing that its market share is almost invisible today, while the latter is growing dynamically. Why doesn't the government commissioner try to make as many Hungarian films as possible and get the audience as wide as possible? According to the LMP, this is what is needed most. In conclusion, apart from some real successes, the Hungarian film is in a catastrophic state, the Hungarian cinematic culture is being demolished. The conditions and financing of film production are opaque and domestic statistics are hidden. Since 2011, there has been no fundamental information about the distribution of films, their spectators, their ticket receipts, unlike previous practice. The May Other in Politics wants to clarify things. This is why we have today presented a number of important written questions to the government to find out, among other things: what do the statistics show about the production and dissemination of films in recent years? Where and where do billions of filmmakers migrate from? Is it worth it for us to produce foreign superproductions in Hungary if they receive a billion-dollar grant? What does the government do to ensure that Hungarian films reach as wide a Hungarian audience as possible? We would like to get to the bottom of the truth, which includes the need to clarify the work of the Commissioner. As of 1 July 2014, Viktor Orbán appointed him again as the government commissioner responsible for the development of the national film industry. Thank you for listening.
u2014-07-04-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Márta Demeter, from the MSZP Group, applied for a speech entitled "Slovak-Hungarian relations work excellently. " You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-07-04-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the hearing of Minister Tibor Navracsics, Minister for Foreign Affairs, before the Committee on National Inclusion, he said: "The primary objectives of foreign policy are national representation and the popularity of the national interests of Hungary, the Hungarian nation. " He also said: " I believe that there will be issues for Hungarian foreign policy in the future when we cannot save conflict, because we need to protect our interests and because others are protecting their interests, and it is inevitable that we will be in conflict with other countries from time to time, even with our friends. " In less than a month's time, on June 30, Tibor Navracsics met the Slovak head of state, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister in Bratislava as the head of Hungarian diplomacy. At the next joint press conference, he explained that " everyday Slovak-Hungarian relations work well." It seems that the Hungarian government did not take a month to forget the Hungarian-Slovak government's position to defend Hungarian national interests, which also engages in conflicts, and to listen deeply to the issues that seriously affect Hungarian-Slovak bilateral relations in the negotiations. At a committee meeting, the Minister-designate also said that "Slovakia is the only neighbouring country, and we can even say that the only country on the planet Earth that has a problem with Hungarian preferential localization is not only in relation to Hungarian preferential localization, but also in relation to the institution of dual citizenship in general. " Compared to this, the representative of the Hungarian government in Bratislava did not mention the disorganization of dual citizenship to his Slovak colleague, since, contrary to the promises, no agreement was reached between the two governments to settle the matter. The Hungarian Foreign Minister has not expressed any concerns about the Slovak government's policy of ignoring minorities, such as the fact that Slovakia has not had a designated minority government commissioner for a year. There would also be a lot of work to be done in bilateral economic relations, as the issue of building the road section between Košice and Miskolc is not moving, and the plan to build several Ipoly Bridges has been removed from the agenda, and the construction of the new bridge in Komárom is becoming increasingly slippery compared to the original plans. It is a huge mistake to sweep these unfinished problems under the carpet just to say that relationships are excellent. The Hungarians in the Highlands see these matters differently, they feel different about themselves, and they expect something different from the visit of a Hungarian government member. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Orbán promised that sensitive issues would now be on the agenda in the relationship between the two countries, but there was no sign of this at the current bilateral meeting. We could also say that everything has remained the same, nothing has changed compared to the policy of the previous Orbán government. In the previous cycle, it was not appropriate to include sensitive issues on the agenda, i.e. in the Hungarian-Slovak relations, the uncomfortable minority issues, such as a coat, were left in the wardrobe. Orbán then said that "a new chapter begins in the joint history of Hungary and Slovakia" and " Slovakia and Hungary are facing successful years." He added that "the minority committees are fine. " No one must have informed the Hungarian Prime Minister that the Slovak-Hungarian Joint Committee on Minorities was the first meeting in December last year that the participants could not agree or sign the minutes of the meeting. The most memorable moment of Hungarian-Slovak relations took place at the inauguration of the Slovak house in Piliszentkereszt, which also did not give the opportunity to discuss the issue of the Hungarian looters in the Highlands. Neither at that time, but let's add, either after this meeting we did not know what negotiations the parties had in order to amend the Slovak citizenship and language law. [[18.40]] It is not clear when those Hungarian citizens who lost it because of the Slovak anti-law can get their Slovak citizenship back. So, then, and now only in his domestic communications will the government undertake the conflict and protect Hungarian national interests only in his communication at home. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the rights of foreign Hungarians. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-194	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would like to inform you that the representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent representative, applied: " Is it a peaceful, cheerful, competitive country? - The first two months of the new Orbán government. I give the floor to the congresswoman in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-07-04-195	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, It was almost 20 years ago that I spoke for the last time in this House, and today was the first day after all these years, that I would speak for the second time. In the last two decades, I have not been interested in dealing with Hungarian politics, I have been excellent in my civic profession, but in the last four years, Viktor Orbán's reign and opposition to everything we once started together moved me to re-engage in politics in Hungary. A new party state is now being built in Hungary under the leadership of Viktor Orbán, a party state against which we worked so much together at the time. I will work against this new party state in the coming years. In addition, it is very important to me that the 21st edition of In the second decade of the 20th century, freedom and democratic fundamental values should once again become the majority in the government and parliament of Hungary. Orbán recently announced the construction of a new, fair civilian country in his speech to be inaugurated as Prime Minister. Well, in two months, it was his ambition to get back to his own well-known course of action. He went to war against everyone who didn't believe in his system, the consolidation of the new party state. Because what happened in the last two weeks? In a completely incomprehensible way, the government voted and carried over a loan agreement with Russia that will indebte Hungary for decades and is extremely risky from a security policy point of view. In the last six months, no one on the government's side has been able to explain why the Paks project is needed and what this EUR 10 billion foreign currency loan is for, which the government has taken up in such a sloppy and sudden fashion. With a sober peasant mind, you don't make such a risky loan agreement. When we build a house, we'll make plans first, see what the credit is for, and then we'll deal with the money. This has not happened in Hungary, we have taxed this country for decades, with a risky, dangerous contract and a serious service to Hungary. In particular, the government struck the citizens of Budapest. In his fear of losing the capital, Fidesz again reached a two-thirds law three months before the municipal elections to change the rules of the game. We all know, according to the common rules of the Venice Commission, that these types of movements, changing the rules of the game, are democratic stability and taking steps against the rule of law. The amendment of the law took away the right from the citizens of Budapest to elect the representatives of the capital directly. Obviously, this step will further seriously destroy democracy in Hungary. The fact that the development resources for the capital have also been seriously compromised is just a blur on the cake. Today's sad story is the introduction of advertising tax. The expansion of the new party state will not only spare citizens but also the economic players. The advertising tax adopted today will not only constitute an unnecessary, malicious, serious market-distorting, obviously a barrier to freedom of expression. It has no other purpose but to regulate the press and to keep the news of Hungarian reality from getting to the people. While some are being punished separately by the government, others have been relieved of debt - this goes against EU law. There have been other sad stories in the last few weeks. One of the most depressing things I can imagine is that Viktor Orbán appointed an ex-III/II agent as the Minister of State of the Ministry of Interior, a man who, a few decades earlier, was a minister of the communist regime, obviously collected reports about us at the funeral of Imre Nagy. In his inauguration speech, Viktor Orbán spoke about common sense and middle politics, promising a peaceful, serene and competitive country. Well, the parliamentary session ending today [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It has led Hungary, citizens and entrepreneurs no closer to peace, serenity or competitiveness. Viktor Orbán and his government will remain, the harsh ruler of the battle of the thrones, where only eternal battle, blood and sweat will be given, and no perspective. Thank you very much.
u2014-07-04-196	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the summer special session. I would like to inform you that the first meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on 15 September 2014. Thank you for your work. I wish everyone a good rest. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 6:47 p.m.]]
