u2014-05-10-0	Dear Parliament, The session of the Parliament on 10 May 2014 is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be attending the meeting with Loránd Hegedűs and Lajos Szűcs notaries to assist me. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome President János Áder on behalf of all of us. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (Applause) ; Mr Paul Schmitt President of the Republic ; Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (Applause) ; President Paul Schmitt (Caps. - Paul Schmitt stands up to thank you for your applause.) ; Mr Péter Paczolay, President of the Constitutional Court (Applause) ; Mr. Peter Darák, President of the Curia; Mr. Peter Polt, Attorney General (Applause) ; public officials of public bodies; Cardinal Péter Erdő, Archbishop of Esztergom-Budapest, President of the Hungarian Catholic Bishop's Conference (Applause.) ; representatives of foreign Hungarian communities, members of diplomatic bodies, Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament, Members of Parliament, representatives of national minorities, all our dear guests, representatives of the Hungarian and foreign press and everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, Under the agreement of the factions, speeches before the agenda will not take place today, interpellations, immediate questions and questions. I would like to inform you that the oath papers in accordance with the oath law have been signed by all Members. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. On the agenda, the House Committee presented its proposal for the duration of the meeting. Dear Parliament, At the request of the factions, we will decide on the adoption of the agenda by using a voting machine. Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. [[It's happening.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposal on the agenda. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the agenda by 159 votes to 27, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, The election of the Prime Minister follows. Under Article 1 (2) (f) and Article 16 (3) of the Fundamental Law, President János Áder nominated Prime Minister Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister at the inaugural meeting. The proposal is S/105. You can learn about it on the IT network. Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 16 (4) of the Fundamental Law, the election of the Prime Minister requires the vote of more than half of the Members of Parliament. The Prime Minister will take office with his election. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary. Please vote. [[Vote. The members of the MSZP fraction shall leave the Chamber after the vote.]] I note that the House elected Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary by 130 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the solemn oath. I ask you to listen to the Prime Minister's oath standing. [[The people present will stand up. The phantoms speak, the commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the presidential pulpit, and requests permission from the Speaker to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber, who grants permission. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the flags will march on both sides of the presidential pulpit. The decorator carrying the national flag arrives next to the stenographer's table, and the conductor enters the other side of the stenographer's table.]] I ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to take his oath. [[The people present will stand up. The National Flag Parliamentary Guard comes in from the Presidential Pulpit and, breaking the flag, stands in the middle of the hall for the duration of the oath.]]
u2014-05-10-1	I, Viktor Orbán, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its basic law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my position as Prime Minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[It's a long applause.]]
u2014-05-10-2	Dear Parliament, Please sing our national prayer together. [[The people in this room sing the Anthem together. After that, the people in the room will take their seats.]] I ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to take his place and to sign the oath papers. Please, have a seat. [[It's happening.]] [[15.20]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Prime Minister of Hungary from the heart and to wish him good health, strength, endurance and wisdom to perform his duties. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[Viktor Orbán enters the speaker's stand.]]
u2014-05-10-3	Presidents of the Republic! Ladies and gentlemen of the Prime Minister, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Old teaching: What should be the first thing to do if you begin to govern? Answer: restoring the correct use of words. If the use of words is wrong, the meaning of thoughts is confusing; if the meaning of thoughts is confusing, it cannot be done in a tailor-made way. Therefore, the first thing that the government wants to do is to make his thoughts words words and words into words, not to let his words become messy; it all depends on that. Dear House, This is the ancient wisdom I seek to follow when I now address the first prime minister of the new term. On 6 April, the Hungarian people decided. In a manner worthy of a thousand years of European state, according to the rules adopted today in the world, or democratically, he decided on his future. My first thought is thanks. Thank you all who participated in the elections, for any political force or candidate you voted for. Thank you for your involvement in strengthening national independence and the idea of freedom, for which so many of us have stepped in over the past centuries. Those who take part in the election, and especially those who take part in the electoral campaign, actually carry on the traditions of our country's independence and freedom fighters, because the meaning of the election in peacetime is no different than finding answers to the question of how we can preserve our national independence and how we can best settle our country's life according to the order of freedom. Of course, I also thank the citizens who supported us, the civil, Christian, national forces and personally me. I know that I have a special responsibility to them, for they have put their trust in us, and it is our duty to use that trust well as a steward. I will not forget my duties to them, even if I know that the government and the Prime Minister must serve the entire country, the whole country, all citizens of the nation, regardless of who they voted for on 6 April. Nor will this conviction be changed by provocations. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Therefore, my government, which is now to be established, although it stands on the basis of a two-thirds majority in Parliament, will always represent the three thirds, i.e. all Hungarians, and will strive for the service of all Hungarians. Today, these words weigh more than usual. For the first time in decades, the entire Hungarian nation, the mother country, the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin and the Hungarians living outside the Carpathian Basin could participate in the joint decision of the nation, so this parliament can feel rightfully the parliament of the Hungarian nation, and the government will rightly consider itself the government of the nation. In my opinion, this is not an exaggeration or exaggeration, but rather a commitment, a weight on the shoulders and, above all, a responsibility. I thank the Hungarians living outside the mother country for their overwhelming support for our policy of unifying the Hungarian nation over borders. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I accepted the request of the President of the Republic to form a government, and I took the oath. I start my seventh four-year term as a Member, I have 24 parliamentary years behind me, I have worked 16 years in opposition and 8 years as a pro-government representative, taking on a prime minister's mandate. I see what Churchill meant when he said politics is more dangerous than war, because in war, you only get killed once. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] If I count my years in anti-Communist resistance movements, I have been walking the most comfortable and smooth ways of Hungarian politics for almost 30 years. This 30 years of experience gave me the right to say yes to the President of the Republic without hesitation and to take my oath. Ladies and Gentlemen, I have learned that winning is good; but I have also learned that defeat is not in vain. In fact, those who are determined, those who are not afraid of hard work, those who do not give up, even their enemies and their defeats, will go their way. The question is whether we read it well, whether we understand the deeper meaning of our defeats, failures, and backstabbings. Over the burnt, gangrene remains of a scientist's lab, he said that there must be one benefit to the fire - it consumed all my mistakes along with my house. [[15.30]] However, for the second time in a row, I am now faced with the consequences of victory and success, not defeat and failure. The starting point of the four years ahead and the starting line of my Prime Minister's work can be given by a deep and accurate understanding that, after the difficult years when Hungary was completely renewed and reorganized, the electorate appointed us to continue our work. The road we took was neither easy nor comfortable, on the contrary, we faced serious difficulties, outnumbered opponents - sovereign debt, sluggish budget, financial dictators - we went through an obstacle course with banks, monopoly companies, cartels and international bureaucrats, not the government, but the whole country, but the voters decided to continue the road. First of all, I read from their decision the desire to end barren disputes. Dear House, It's part of man's nature that if he's banned from something for a long time, he tends to overdrive it after the ban has passed, he falls on the other side of the horse. Forty years he was forbidden to argue, and then, that he has been free for twenty-five years, the Hungarian public is nothing but a debate, a step and a step, everyone drives his own, and eventually we stay where we are, we're in place. The right proportion of debate, consensus, agreement and action has not been found by Hungarian politics, which is why, despite freedom, democracy, the market economy, despite the obvious signs of development, the public sentiment is rather that we are on the ground, that we have not made any progress. According to the public will now declared, it is better for the country to stick to the strong and firm direction that has begun, rather than reopen the era of barren debate, we have debated enough about the main direction, the basics. To quote the popular but somewhat imprecise speech of voters: it is time to work, now let the era of action and action continue. After the second confirmation, I have no debate about the basic law, the social organisation based on respect for human dignity, the policy linking freedom and responsibility; the policy of the work-based economy and the unity of nations is not the subject of discussion, how there will be and need to be debates, but the fundamental issues have been resolved, the electorate has closed the debate. In my view, therefore, this election confirmed the second change of regime in 2010. He confirmed that instead of speculation, the Hungarian economy should be based on work; that instead of the doctrines of liberalism we should follow the idea of mutual responsibility; that instead of conquering global forces, we should fight for our national independence; that instead of internationalism, we should raise our children to love their country; and that instead of allowing, demanding mess, we should have order, which is both fair and consistent. Ladies and Gentlemen, The April election result also means commitment to unity, there is no point in going into a number war on how the support given to the governing parties is related to the total number of voters. The proportion of the election victory is convincing, at most we add that we will consider the position of the leaders of the opposition, who have literally said during the campaign: whoever stays at home will vote for the government. Silence is consent, says the Hungarian... [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] Silence is consent, says the Hungarian, even if I have some doubts about the validity of this, but a new cycle begins, so let's take a gesture to the opposition and accept their appreciation. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, In the modern age, which is based on reasoning, measuring the weight of positions and proposals and representing its own interests, no matter how much we want it, neither unity nor unity can be complete. We, those of unity and unity, are aware of this, the law of the deepest part of the human soul, and its insight enables us to reconcile national unity and democracy. The point, however, is that during the elections, the forces seeking unity received an overwhelming majority, i.e. the middle forces triumphed. I consider this huge mass to be a European centre; a European centre, which strongly rejects extremist politics. The " extremist " - as a political stigma - appears in Hungarian public life as a cheap political club and more often than necessary, so it is reasonable to make it clear what we will regard as extremes, against which - and I would like to advance this without a fuss - I will act decisively, consistently and persistently over the next four years. I consider any policy that is dangerous to Hungarians to be extreme. I consider it dangerous and extreme to place criminal rights before the victims. I consider economic policy proposals which ignore the basic rules of reason and common sense to be dangerous and extreme. I also consider this policy dangerous and extreme - whether it is right or left - to take money from working people to give it to those who are able to work but who do not want to work. In other words, I consider it extreme if someone wants to support not work but unemployment, and I regard the Hungarian people as dangerous and extremist a policy that wants to sacrifice Hungary a thousand years old on the altar of some European United States. That's what I'm against... [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]] I am opposed to this, and I find it necessary, along with the resulting slimming foreign policy behaviour, to be curbed. But I will also consider the programme of exiting the European Union as a dangerous and extreme policy. We Hungarians, with our stormy history, must understand that those who do not sit at the dinner table should not be surprised if they find themselves on the menu. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Therefore, the government's policy will aim to strengthen national cooperation, unity and the centre of Europe. For the next four years, I don't have any concerns about right or left extremes. The nature of the water level is such that it often changes, so the question is not how high the water level is, but how high the dams are, and the Hungarians have drawn high barriers in the elections, which guarantee the stability of the government and Hungary in the years ahead. Ladies and Gentlemen, During the election campaign, we left no doubt about our plans and intentions: continue - support us to continue, we asked for this. But in fact, we asked for more than that: we asked to continue together. I intend - as we have done in the last four years - to continue our national consultation policy, I will look for the opportunity to open up the most diverse forms of public participation to Hungarians. I have never shifted the responsibility of the government, the responsibility for final political decisions, and I will never put it on anyone else's shoulders again. [[15.40]] People put it on our shoulders so we could carry it. But this does not rule out, but rather requires that we listen to people. We need their voices and their opinions. A decade and a half ago, I was the youngest elected Prime Minister in Hungary. Believe me, I'm not young enough to know the answer to everything. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] Dear House, In 2010, we decided to break up with the liberal social stance, social organisation principles and methods prevailing for 20 years between 1990 and 2010. Instead, like the basic law on which we have all taken the oath, it presents this to us, we follow the link between freedom and responsibility, i.e. the idea and policy of mutual responsibility. For 20 years, the idea of life has been given political recognition and support that everything is free, which is not a violation of the freedom of others. Since there is no answer to the question of who decides what is already a violation of another man's freedom, in real life this question was answered by strength, the dominant. That is why, in reality, this concept, in addition to all its spiritual elegance and attractiveness, has proved to be deceitful and hypocritical. That is why we had to reject it and replace it with a new idea. More specifically, we had to put the ancient moral law back into its rights: what you don't want them to do to you, you don't have to do to others. In fact, in the spirit of Christian - inspired politics, we want to add the law that you want them to do to others. Dear House, I am aware that human behaviour should, after all, not be regulated by external behavioral instructions, especially by non-governmental decisions and least calls from the heads of government, but by deep impulses from the depths of the soul. Internal conviction should regulate our relationship with life, the elderly, the children, the neighbors, the other sexes, the truth and the community itself. You could just call it a conscience. Therefore, politics, the government, the Prime Minister, must act with extreme caution here, knowing that he walks on thin ice, and goodwill and goodwill - more specifically, his good intentions and good will - can easily turn back and appear to be unauthorized interference and violence. At the same time, dear House, we cannot accept public states in which conscientiously acting, law-abiding people continue to suffer ill, while unscrupulous, Pharisee, perverting rules always benefit and gain advantage. If the country gets here, the public figures can't be quiet and they can't be idle. With due care, restraint, respect for the ban on personal dignity, but they must play a role in restoring the right order of the country. That is what I expect from myself, the people working in the government, and I am asking you, as well as Members of Parliament, to do. Dear House, In the new era since 2010, the relationship between the individual and the community is also shaped by new rules. The liberal constitution did not oblige governments to serve national interests. He did not oblige Hungarians living in the world to acknowledge and strengthen their belonging to our nation. He did not protect community wealth, he did not protect people from the debt and looting of the country; and in the name of freedom, hundreds of thousands of families ended up in debt slavery. I will also be committed in the future to maintaining and even strengthening the relationship between the work, performance and interests of the people and the life of the community and the nation. For me, society is not a mere set of individuals, but a community, an organic structure. This national and Christian-inspired social interpretation will provide the basis and purpose of my work. Ladies and Gentlemen, In my experience, prosperity and the spiritual state of a country are linked. Prosperity can only arise in a country with good self - knowledge, good self - respect, and a sense of pride. I mean, he's aware of his options, he doesn't think he's any more despicable than anyone, and he's got serious accomplishments in mind for his own greatness. Such countries are capable of respectable economic results. They are capable of continuous growth and are able to give their citizens the opportunity to do so; that is, they have the ability to grow peacefully. To do this, Honourable House, we need strength, because peace can only be given by the strong, peace can only be created by the strong. But, ladies and gentlemen, peace is not the absence of war. Peace is more of a fruit of truth. And justice is that everyone must receive what is due and do what is to be expected of him. He will receive what he deserves and do what he is expected to do in his state of life, and in the meantime, justice or lack thereof cannot be a reference to an exemption from our obligations arising from our state of life. Thirty years of political experience has led me to believe that this balanced and nuanced perception of justice creates a country in which peace prevails, whose basic tone is serenity and which is able to deliver competitive economic performance with other countries of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, We live in an open world economy. Therefore, fair but not economically competitive countries will sooner or later start to decline and fall into poverty. And poverty gives birth to envy, which ends peace, and at the same time opens up space for the smallest and most serious trouble. In the same way, in economically competitive but unfairly arranged countries, the strong crushes the weaker. He has no regard for the other man's dignity, so he necessarily accumulates the material of discontent, injury, anger, and hatred that consumes peace. I therefore seek to establish a government that can create a fair and competitive Hungary at the same time. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is my duty to say a few words about the future government's European policy. Hungary is part of the Western federal system, NATO and the European Union. There is no such thing, and there will be no doubt in our time of government. However, we are members of these alliances and not hostages. The federal obligation does not apply to vision. No one can expect us to pretend to be blind so that we don't see what's going on around us and us in the world. And the federal obligation doesn't apply to speaking either. No one can expect us to pretend to be mute, not to talk about what we see around us. And the federal obligation doesn't apply to thinking either. No one can expect us to pretend to be a dork who doesn't have any sane thoughts about what we should do. Our European policy will be characterised by discernment, open dialogue and courageous thinking. Since the financial crisis that broke out in 2008, Central Europe has not been satisfied with copying Western policy. [[15.50]] Europe is losing its weight every day in the world economy, world trade and world policy. Europe is our country as well as the country of Central European peoples, so it is our personal interest, our personal cause and our personal duty as a good ally to change this situation. Central Europe and Hungary, Honourable House, have their own proposals, backed by the hard work of recent years, economic and political successes. We want a Europe that respects its roots, respects Christianity, and gives the nations the respect they deserve. We want a Europe that realizes that a community that cannot biologically maintain itself is doomed to disappear. We do not want a policy to support immigration, nor do we want immigrant masses causing unmanageable tensions, but we want support for childbearing and we want a natural reversal of population loss. We want recognition and respect for families, we reject the relativisation, expansion and emptying of marriage and family; we demand support, protection and physical and spiritual security for children. We want a Europe that supports entrepreneurship, is able to create full employment and eliminates the competitive disadvantage caused by high energy prices in Europe. We want a radical, rapid reduction in energy prices across Europe, connected European energy networks and secure energy supply across the continent. Dear Lords of the President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We put our economic relations at the heart of foreign policy. We'll continue with the east opening. We will strengthen our economic presence and increase our economic weight in the Carpathian Basin. This is in the interests of Hungary, neighbouring countries and the European Union. The determined strengthening of regional economic relations is not contrary to the strong national policy stance. The Hungarian case has been unresolved since World War II. The Hungarian case is a European matter. Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin are entitled to dual citizenship, community rights and autonomy. This is our position, which we will represent in international politics. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] The situation of the two hundred thousand Hungarian communities living in Ukraine, which must receive dual citizenship, must receive the fullness of community rights, and must also be given the opportunity to self-management. This is a clear expectation of the new Ukraine, which is now forming, who, by the way, enjoy our sympathy and support in their work to create a democratic Ukraine. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, We all know that many Hungarians have managed to rise to the best of the world. Nobel laureates, artists, Olympics. Still, we have a lack of feeling. Because if so many have succeeded one by one, why can't they succeed together, as one nation, together? This is exactly what we want: to build a national community living in prosperity and security, where success is not an exception, but the experience of the majority, where everyone is raised by the common success to which everyone adds their own achievements. We have done much, but we still have a lot to do to live in such Hungary. First of all, however, we must prevent the nation from being able to cope at the expense of it, we must look for it and I will look for the roads and ways in which Hungarians can do their own personal affairs and gain personal benefits in such a way as to benefit the entire community. For the first time in decades, we have come to the point that the economy is not growing from credit, the world of money is in balance, while the world of companies, production and work is expanding. This can fill us with confidence. Dear House, The Prime Minister is expected to tell us where Hungary is headed, and although the Prime Minister is far from omnipotent, but he is not even a fortuneteller, he should respond intelligently. We're heading in the middle. Hungary is heading towards the centre. In the middle of Europe, we are building a new Central Europe that can catch up with the western half of Europe. We are heading towards the centre of European living standards and quality of life over the next four years. We're not getting to the top and first levels yet, but we're moving up. We are on our way to the strengthening of the middle class, the large majority of Hungarians. We are heading for a healthy economy based on work, knowledge, property and free enterprise. Our common and family finances are moving towards balance, everyday livelihoods are becoming less and less financially dependent and debt-based, less and less based on inaction and aid. Workplace, knowledge, property, enterprise. All this brings income and money. But it gives me something more important than money, and that's security. If I need my head, my brain, my arm and my muscle, if I've paid my debt, if I have savings, if I can live in my own home, and if I have a stable government at the head of this country, I'm safe. This is where Hungary will be heading for the next four years. Dear House, Where can Hungary reach in four years? We can go far and high. Now's our chance to leave behind everything that's pulled us down. The great common and individual debt, the knowledge that is not or can only be used, the professional qualifications that have been obtained only on paper, the insufferable overhead costs, the vulnerability of everyday life. It will be available for safety, work, home, and will be available for good training and quality knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I only have one more question to answer. How's the good Prime Minister? József Eötvös has a parable of the steam locomotive, namely the expert, who perfectly knows the structure of the locomotive, all its wheels, each screw and axis - he just doesn't know what makes it work, because he doesn't know what the steam is, that is, the force that puts it all in motion and keeps it moving; he knows how things work, but he doesn't know why. Dear House, That's the thing about the state machine. We know the structure in vain if we do not understand the soul, character, the spirit of the nation and the will of the nation. If we do not understand this, the constitution will rustle, the codes will squeak, the institutions will crackle, the structure will fail. If the government, at the head of the Prime Minister, if Members, if those of the political world understand the spirit, soul and will of the nation, then they will be able to serve well those who elected them. I want to serve you well. I would like to be a good Prime Minister for this strange, unique, talented, but sufferingly people, this brave, resourceful, chivalrous and industrious nation. I would like him to stop making sacrifices, for he still had to suffer far beyond his reach for so many centuries. But I know that the future, because that is the nature of it, and on whose European horizon the cloud is much more than it should be, will present us with new challenges and trials. Either way, you can be sure that even forced victims will eventually benefit the large community that includes all Hungarians. [[16.00]] Dear House, We must serve by the fact that the state structure and government, which provides a framework for the common life of the nation, are always passed through by soul, purpose and reason, always determined by the consciousness and responsibility of the common destiny. That's the order I want to serve with my best knowledge and all my strength. I ask the good Lord, if he has brought me this far, carried me on a hawk wing, now confirm me, so that I may meet the responsibility which awaits me. I ask that my actions always be guided by loyalty and insight. Soli Deo gloria - God alone has the glory. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties. A round of applause from the LMP. Gábor Fodor applauds. Viktor Orbán takes the Prime Minister's seat.]]
u2014-05-10-4	Dear Parliament, I thank the Prime Minister for his words. Now I ask you to stand up and honor the departure of historic flags and national flags. [[The people in this room stand up. The commander of the decorative guard comes forward, and the flags leave the meeting room at the sound of the fanfares. The people present will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I thank you for the attendance of our invited guests. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Spring Session of the Parliament will take place on Monday 12 May 2014 at 13 a.m. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 4:03 p.m.]]
