u2014-11-11-0	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. The 12th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet and Congressman József Moring will be here to help me. Welcome to our guests, and to all those who are monitoring our work today. Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the KDNP, has applied for a speech before the agenda today:. Aid or work? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, So aid or work, that's the question. This is perhaps one of the most important issues in recent years and in the years ahead. And if this really is one of the most important social policy issues in our country, then I think it is very important that we speak calmly and debate this matter without emotion and cynicism. Therefore, in this calm tone, I would like to say, without any emotion, that we naturally disagree with the many and many anti-demagogic accusations that we want to create a public-worker country. How can such a superficial, cynical expression be revealed on a serious subject, a matter of life that cuts into flesh? ! Why would we do that? Neither our moral understanding nor our political values nor our fiscal interests support this. After all, instead of aid, his work programme meant much more budget support in the past, and it will continue to be. We spend a lot more money on these public employment programmes and on job creation programmes in general than we do on multiples of socialist-liberal governments combined. Dear Parliament, Through these programmes, the government is pursuing a work-based social policy, i.e. we are offering hundreds of thousands of people in difficulty an opportunity to break out. And if so? And that's how it is? Then the state, the government and Parliament should support this programme in a uniform way, because it is better for everyone than aid, it is beneficial for everyone and it is in the interests of everyone: individual people, families, settlements and the entire Hungarian society. So the obvious answer to the question of aid or work is that we have to give people work instead of aid. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that the MSZP is also beginning to think more calmly and more rationally, since István Hiller recently suggested to the MSZP that? Is that what I'm saying? change your policy so far, think about the issues of community service and relief, because a left-wing party cannot be against the income earned by work. We hope that this opinion will be a united position of the MSZP with regard to public employment as soon as possible and that this programme will not continue to be attacked in a demagogic and cynical manner and thus humiliate hundreds of thousands of people in their human dignity. (An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: That is you! ? Zoltán Haughty interrupts. [[Attila Móring József takes the notary seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We need to exchange ideas in calm and sound debates and dialogue on how to further develop this programme, how to make it more effective, how to link this programme to the work of social cooperatives, for example, and how to get more people from public employment to the labour market. However, at least in terms of basic goals and baselines, we need to agree and speak in one language. Dear House, If we give more work, it is logical and natural that less aid is needed. If we give more work, it is logical and natural to give people more opportunities. If we give more work, it is logical and natural to give people more self-esteem and the chance to move forward, to make better use of their personal responsibility, to do more for themselves and for their own families. I trust that, on this basis, the Parliament will be able to support the work and government programme together and unitedly, and we can make it even more effective in calm, sound debates and dialogue. The Christian Democratic People's Party and its parliamentary faction will do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister of State Sándor Czomba responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-11-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, he has brought a very important topic, one of the most important topics, here to Parliament today as an address before the agenda. In 2010, the Hungarian government faced a very serious dilemma. We knew, we saw, we perceived that for many years and decades, high unemployment and low employment have been one of the most serious problems in Hungary. In this case, we had to take very serious steps, but we had to think about where the straight line was. So, A-alternatively, we carry on the socialist program, in which the basically the minimum wage, which was written down on paper, was given to people to deal with social tensions in this way, but a piece of tools and equipment was not financed, so it was encoded in Hungarian that it was not operational, because, if it is not behind meaningful, value-creating work, then we are doing virtually more damage anyway. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Now what is the value-making part of it?]] It's like we're trying to make a profit on the other side. In this connection, it is also a serious dilemma for the current government to wait for jobs to come along in parallel with the recovery of the economy, to increase in the competitive sector, and then to convey people to work, and until then? In quotes? Let us keep hundreds of thousands of people on aid, or let us not wait for this ideal condition, but let there be an intermediate opportunity, which is not yet competitive employment, but no longer aid. There is a huge difference not only in philosophical terms but also in fact between aid and wages. We are not talking about HUF 22 800, but at the moment we are talking about HUF 50 600 on the one hand, and on the other hand, we are paying a contribution, so it is a pension fund, and the other and many other aspects can and should be taken into account in the context of public employment, which, if any, is not measured by deca or forint, but the social effects of this go far beyond that. Of course, for the Hungarian government, as before, the most important thing is, the primary aspect is to increase employment in the competition sector. We have to do the best we can in this case. But as long as there are areas, areas, there are groups? low school education, over 50, young people? where we cannot create this ideal state, we must operate the public employment tool system. Obviously, everyone feels, senses, that paying the public employment salary costs the state much more than, by the way, the relief, the HUF 22 800. So in terms of budget, this is an important burden on taxpayers' money. Despite this, or above all, we say that all forints are spent usefully here, as opposed to the chances of being stuck in the relief system, since 22 800 forints cannot be lived or dealt with mentally. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And what do you do if you are ill, disabled? What about that?]] [[9.10]] This is why we have decided to ask for work instead of aid in the next period, if nothing else, to offer people work in the framework of temporary public employment, but I must draw attention to the fact that, as a representative of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, I have received a number of entrepreneurs in the past period who complain that they have difficulty or barely found a workforce in the business. So it's double-edged: it can become counterproductive if we don't pay attention to the processes that have shown up in the past. So the ideal condition would be that if virtually as many people left the competitive sphere, we could reach out to so many people of the current inactive, and in Hungarian, they would run out of inactive people, so in Hungarian, those who do not receive any care at the moment, what's more, are not registered at the labour office, because they feel that their situation is hopeless. So good processes have started, and we want to strengthen these processes in the coming years. In the coming year, HUF 270 billion will be available in scale. This means that we will be able to involve another 50,000 people in public employment from the end of the semester, but we also want to launch programmes that will help to exit public employment from the competition sector, mainly by using EU funds. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-11-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the LMP Group, Mr Sallai R. Benedek has applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Why do we need further amendments to the 2015 budget? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'd like to pick up where Secretary of State Czomba left off. He said that in certain regions of the country there is a need for public work and a shortage of workers at the same time, and he said that this is a good direction. No, it is not a good direction at all, precisely because it shows the failure of the public work programme to lead those involved in public work back to the world of work, and I wanted to talk a little bit about where it leads and what trend we have seen in Hungary since 2010, all this is employment policy, all this is the budget. First of all, as a constructive opposition representative, I welcome the government's insight into the financing of foundation schools or the Internet tax, but I feel that this is very, very little, and that much more, much bigger, structural changes are needed in Hungary's 2015 budget. Why am I saying this, and why am I saying this? First of all, this budget for society, this employment policy, has resulted in a result of social fragmentation in 2013, i.e. in terms of middle wages? differences in the direction of poverty and the wealthy? After Greece, we became the second in Hungary. The middle class has ceased, the civilian population has ceased to be represented by this government. After Greece, we are in second place in this regard. It is also the 2013 EU report on how poverty in the EU has changed and how the country stands in terms of wages below the middle wages, i.e. in Hungary in 2013 under the net income of HUF 109 thousand. It can be concluded that 3.3 million people make less money in Hungary than 60 percent of the median wage. So this means that income below 65 thousand forints is the determining factor, and in this Bulgaria, Romania, Greece is ahead of us. This is also an EU report, which shows that we are using our resources badly. However, the most talkative is the report that appears every year under the name of the World Happiness Report and examines a number of parameters, the health situation of people, their vision, their hopes, how they feel about security in democracy, how they feel about their income opportunities. In this respect, did Hungary need 110th place in 2013? a thousand people were asked in Hungary? In 110th place, we are on the same planet as Iraq, Serbia, Bangladesh, Laos, Palestine and Iran. So that's what these reports mean. Of course, if I want to continue to nuance and present this, I can say that we are still in Europe in the four countries where the number of suicides per thousand is between 17-32, the highest in Europe. If we look at what society this results in, I can say that in Europe we are in the 4th place behind Bulgaria, Romania and Macedonia in terms of cardiovascular diseases, in the 2nd place in terms of myocardial infarction, and in terms of cancer in the 3rd place. So these indicators are, in my opinion, the indicators that should measure the outcome of a country's budget, the indicators that the government should use to assess its own activities, and not the juggling with numbers that constantly present an improved picture of the country. The reason I feel this is important now at the time of the budget negotiations is because it would be good to talk about what the two-thirds of the members of the government are empowered to do and what it is possible to do, because I do not think that the majority of pro-government representatives would want to do bad, but I think that they are using inappropriate indicators for what they are aiming for in Hungary. As long as the outlook of the majority of society in Hungary is not changed, many of the children will not get to vacation in the summer, many of the children will never meet mountains, many of the children in the lowlands will not meet mountains, many of the children in the mountains will not meet rivers, they will not get to beaches, however we talk about any indicators, the budget is bad. As long as we spend billions on sports concepts, as long as we spend billions on supporting Hungaroring, as long as we spend resources to support Red Bull, this budget will not serve the interests of the population of Hungary, and this would require a structural, serious change in the budgetary perspective. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-11-11-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, we will hear the answer from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-11-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Although he gave the title of his speech before the agenda, "Why do we need further amendments to the 2015 budget?" We couldn't say a word about it, but we could hear statistical collections about how the country stood. If you'll allow me, you've been talking about trends since 2010, so will I. So in 2010, Hungary was essentially morally, financially, economically on the verge of bankruptcy, or we can say that it was bankrupt. The budget deficit was 10 per cent, debt increased by more than 30 per cent of GDP in the previous 8 years, and it was already over 80 per cent, with the country slipping down in all respects thanks to the socialist government of the eight years before. He really took over in a difficult situation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Aren't you tired of it?]] the government of that time has managed the country, but let's look at the results it has achieved over the past four years. For example, one of the biggest social problems is the problem of foreign exchange lenders, and it is also a daily issue in Parliament, as we are facing a final solution. [[Sándor Szabó: What you do in this is a disgrace!]] This week will be the date of the legislative proposals that will be presented to Parliament, and by the end of next year, the system of foreign exchange credit will be completely removed from the credit system. But Hungary was also excluded from the excessive deficit procedure, which in 2010 seemed to be an incredible thing, since from 1 July 2013, after nine years of membership, the government was able to bring the country out and thus increase confidence in the country. [[Sándor Szabó: Are you serious?]] But the country has also made significant progress in terms of employment. On the one hand, in terms of EU statistics, we are making a number of peaks, such as women's employment, youth employment or a reduction in unemployment. The number of unemployed people has fallen by more than 100,000, and nearly 4 million 200,000 people already have jobs in Hungary, which was around 3 million 800 thousand in 2010, at the time of the change of government. [[9.20]] Even if these results are not recognised by the Hungarian opposition, the European Commission certainly recognises that it will change Hungary's prospects and economic prospects for 2014 and 2015. But the IMF also acknowledged, probably in Hungary's example, that the kind of austerity policy that it offered Hungary in exchange for credit did not bring any results. This has been admitted by the IMF and these advice will no longer be given to other countries. That's what they said. But London analysts also consider Hungary's upgrading, so we have managed to deliver serious economic results in Hungary over the last four years, during the last four years. The result of this is that the 2015 budget is fully designed to meet the EU's expectations on the one hand and, on the other, in terms of government objectives, in an appropriate manner in terms of macro-numbers. Thus, the deficit target can be set at 2.4 per cent of GDP, the government debt will stop at 75,4 per cent by the end of 2015, while economic growth will be 2.5 per cent and annual inflation will be 1.8 per cent in the 2015 budget. It is absolutely important that next year's budget stimulates economic recovery. There will be significant reorganisations in the area of EU aid to this end, as it will fully serve economic development. The most important objective is to ensure that banks are accounted for, thereby increasing consumption by remaining in the population, thereby stimulating economic growth. These are the main objectives of the 2015 budget. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds. Zoltán Pride: You don't mean that either!]]
u2014-11-11-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Speaking before the agenda from the MSZP Group, Mr László Varga:. Why not solve the problem of tens of thousands of people? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of people have a lot of problems with the government today, because they didn't promise what they eventually gave people. This can be seen from the tax laws and the budget. However, I am bringing to this House today a problem that I have seen as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc in recent weeks. A lot of people came to me by e-mail, letter, and phone from Tapolca, Pretzels, and a lot of areas of the city. Small garden tenants who have been renting small gardens, closed garden properties from Big Zrt., the real estate company of the municipality for decades, and after the elections, they received a letter from this company on 12 October concerning the fact that they will not renew their contract. It is clear in this case that the land law has been amended last year, and according to this amendment, only these areas can be used by an ancient producer, farmer or farmer. According to the new land law, they cannot enter into a new contract with these people, even though they have been using these areas for decades to meet their own consumption needs or to meet the fruit and vegetable needs of their families. They're doing these areas fair and square, keeping them in order. It is also clear in this case that this problem has already occurred earlier in Szombathely, these contracts have expired earlier. There are about 1,500 properties affected. György Ipkovich, former mayor of the city, our former colleague, dealt with this matter. Proposals were also made in Szombathely, and there was a very serious problem at the assembly there. There are many very nervous people on this issue. In this context, there was a proposal from the Socialist Group. My fellow Members, Gergely Bárándy and Zsolt Legény, tabled this proposal. This is a proposal that tackles this issue in a comprehensive manner. By setting a limit in a hectare where this issue can be dealt with in this way. It would add to a specific passage that a natural person who is not a farmer can obtain land use rights not exceeding one hectare. This issue would have dealt with this problem, which was apparent months ago, because from 1 May this condition actually exists. You voted against this amendment in the Committee on Agriculture. It has been voted off, and there is nothing else that has been put on the table instead of this proposal, so there is no solution. They promised me a solution. Once again, there are many people involved, estimated to be tens of thousands, which is why I wrote this as the title of my speech before the agenda. But there is a newspaper article, there is an expert who says that this problem can affect about half a million hobby gardens in the country. So we are talking about a very wide-ranging social tension problem. I asked questions in the form of a press conference in Miskolc so that the city would act in this form. I have asked my fellow Member from Ottani, but I have also asked all the members of the Government to act together in this problem. Nothing happened in that particular case. And people are getting tense, and I get more letters and phone calls every day on this issue. Once again, we are talking about people who often have a hard time living their daily lives, many of them are retired, many of them have this kind of small income supplement that farming means, that means everyday life, a relatively acceptable standard of living. If they take that away from them, their fate will become extremely difficult. Who's good at this? I'm asking you. After all, we've heard a lot about public safety in the last two weeks. I mean, there are a lot of closed garden properties on the borders of many county seats and cities, as this problem has grown beyond this, affecting the area around Lake Balaton, I got phones and many places from Debrecen, in many of these settlements the border is so to speak, the neighborhood of the city is maintained by these property owners. These cities won't know what to do with these little plots. These plots, if they do not cultivate them, will go wild, and this will also raise serious public safety problems. After all, if they stop, they leave these areas, then there is a serious public safety problem on the border of the city, which can be seen in many places, by the way. Who's good at this? I also raise the issue of corruption here. Someone has created this legislation in this way, in this form, against small gardeners and users. Why don't you solve the problems of tens of thousands of small garden users? Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-11-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, István Nagy State Secretary will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-11-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, Dear House, The problem he raised seems to be a tiny, tiny, yet very big anger and very big troubles issue. This problem, not according to its size, but according to its importance, must be discussed. After all, we can talk about a lot of big city neighborhoods. It is customary that people who moved in from the surrounding villages in former or modern industrial cities, due to their way of life, considered it necessary to be able to carry out the agricultural activities they had become accustomed to at home, so to speak, what they brought with them with their genes. And they needed to grow tomatoes and fruit there, in those gardens, for their own needs. Yeah, but as life goes on, there's aging, there's inheritances, and the problem we're experiencing right now is set. Here's the thing. The government has also seen the question of the honey gardens in Szombathely, as we have received a lot of requests, as my fellow Member said, that this issue should be addressed. [[9.30]] We already had the answer to this question in May, only the European Union's procedure for the Hungarian law did not allow us to reopen the debate on the land law and settle this issue in it. I can assure my fellow Member that this issue is important and that we want to settle it. We're discussing several alternatives right now. There is also the possibility that the closed garden will not be equal to the soil. And from here on out, I think we can solve a lot of legal issues that can resolve this issue. I think that this is the path that we should consider, and we should look for a consensus on how to solve the problem of a lot of people on this issue. If we can get this through, and we can reach consensus on the legal and codification side, so that we can regulate this, I think, in a short time? as the Brussels procedure takes place? We will be able to give a reassuring answer to each and every garden owner, each closed garden owner. This issue is precisely important for inheritance and sales. But there are other questions. It's not enough to direct a hacker, because what about the man who moved into town, but he still has one or two or three acres of land at home. Then you can't do the closed garden sale there already. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to separate closed gardens, honey gardens and agricultural land conceptually and systematically, so that other rules apply to one and the other. And if we can present this in relation to the changes to earth law that will be opened in the near future, I think we can give a reassuring answer to this question. I thank my fellow Member for raising this question. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech:. Why do we not know important details about the background of the disbarment case? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Since mid-October, it is not possible to know who the six Hungarian individuals who were banned from the United States were, and what was the reason for this ban. However, one thing is certain: there are six citizens who the U.S. agent in Hungary claims cannot enter the United States because they are involved in a serious corruption crime that does not allow the US to enter. The various statements, which were often contradictory to each other, were of mutual value. According to the U.S. Advisor, none of the parties opposed the ban decision, nor did any of the parties ask for a legal review of the ban decision. The fact that the government and the head of the National Tax Office made conflicting statements, one of them said that the government knew about the ban, and the other said he didn't know about it. The fact is that Hungary has found itself in the middle of a geopolitical conflict with war happening in Ukraine, with two major spheres of interest, West and East currently conflicting in our region, and this has an impact on Hungary as well. It is also a fact that Hungary is failing in the world ranking of corruption. It is recalled that we have moved further down compared to the last years of the socialists, and the situation has become even worse over the past period. It is also a fact that János Lázár, the right-hand man of Viktor Orbán, directs civil intelligence personally, so he is supposed to immediately possess all information relating to the banning of senior state officials. The question is what can be done. The opposition has asked its own questions several times, but no one has answered these questions. We will now take advantage of parliamentary opportunities on a different stage, and we will take advantage of the framework for democracy. I am the chairman of the Parliament's Committee on Enterprise Development, so I will convene the committee at 10 a.m. on Friday, and we will invite Vida Ildikó, President of the National Tax Office, to this meeting, we will invite André Goodfriend, representative of the government in Hungary, and we will invite Mr Péter Heim, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Századvég. Why are we doing this? Because we want to conduct a calm, professional, factual inquiry into this matter. The inhabitants of Hungary should be aware that they are senior state officials, such as Ildikó Vida, president of the IRS, are involved in any corruption crime, what is happening in this case, why the United States claims what it claims, and why the Hungarian government is lying in parallel. We don't want anything else. We do not want to use this opportunity to make political cuts, but to conduct a calm, professional-based factual inquiry in this matter, because it is in everyone's interest to be clear on this issue. And I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State that much? if Secretary of State Tallai will answer the question? That it should not be what my fellow Member said before the agenda. My fellow Member spoke about the people, and Mr Secretary of State read in response a pre-written cliché on the situation with the excessive deficit procedure. Excuse me, Secretary of State, the questions are not about what you answer regularly. So if you're going to answer that, then we're asking nothing more than for you to answer that question factually. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-11-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although I do not agree with Mr Group leader's criticism of the Secretary of State of Tállai, I will be the one to answer the matter. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You're talking about a serious corruption case, you're saying that there has been no appeal from those involved, and you're saying that they want to use opposition tools. First of all, should we say that those affected cannot seek redress or even seek redress? Like we've known since yesterday? They can't even know why the United States of America decided that way. Apparently, Vida Ildiko was not informed by the U.S. agent about the reason for the introduction of an entry restriction. It is a thought-provoking process in itself, and in itself it is a thought-provoking phenomenon that the person against whom such accusations are made must prove that he is not involved in such a case. But if the United States so wishes, then Ildikó Vida will take the step to go along this path offered by the United States representation in Budapest, namely to apply for a visa to the United States, and see if they can finally tell us what the President of the Hungarian National Tax Administration is accused of. I would add that this charge is unthinkable in a rule of law. It is unthinkable in a rule of law that there is no possibility in any way for the person concerned to know exactly what he is accused of being accused of being accused of being unable to defend himself against him, to appeal against him, or to seek redress. It's unthinkable in a rule of law. We do not dispute that there are such laws in the United States, laws that allow, for example, the Guantanamo detention camp to operate, but we would like to indicate, on behalf of the Hungarian government, that Budapest is not Guantanamo, that it is not the first place to declare that someone is corrupt, and then the person who is accused of it is obliged to prove his innocence. In Hungary, innocence must be proved not by the person concerned, but by the person who claims to be guilty. Therefore, for a long time, I believe that on the opposition and pro-government side of the Parliament, we are all asking what the United States is accusing the President of the tax administration of and accusing Hungarian citizens who are subject to entry restrictions. [[9.40]] So we're all asking? Would it be good if you came forward with these facts now, would it be good for you to expose him to the public of the United States' temporary agent? What you're accusing people of. This can, of course, be done in a parliamentary form as you propose. I, of course, do not wish to classify why the Committee on Enterprise Development should deal with this issue, since the other committees of Parliament have already tried to obtain information from the provisional representative of the United States. I stress that if the United States takes seriously that it is making such a serious, restrictive decision by public authorities against someone, it is, of course, expected that it should state the facts in this regard. And obviously, since it is not true that we are talking about private individuals, it is a question of individuals having a high position in government, because this has been emphasized several times by the agent, it is also expected to ensure full transparency in this matter, so there is no place for a private conversation at the embassy; there is a place for these evidences to be made public. And, of course, only after the suspicion has been established is there room for examination, the investigation may be followed by some kind of finding, and the finding may be followed by the fact that there may be a sanction or a legal consequence of such a disbarment case. You can't reverse the order. I would also ask the opposition to demand that each foreign embassy should publish its reasons before imposing such an entry restriction on someone, if it intends to impose such serious sanctions on Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Fidesz Group, Member István Németh Szilárd applied for a speech before the agenda entitled 'The Common Things'. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The opposition? Among other things, with the powerful help of public opinion-forming journalists? has kept the so-called ban case on the agenda here in this House and in the National Security Committee for weeks. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Jesus!]] The reference fund is André Goodfriend, a press release from the United States of America's temporary agent, stating, among other things, that the president of the NAV has been banned from office:, We have not decided to ban certain persons from entering on the basis of what we read in the press, we must not believe everything. We asked ourselves who there was solid evidence to enforce the law. What's the matter with you? I've been told by the agent. This was done on 21 October, but since then he has not been able to produce any solid evidence at any forum at any time. Mr Goodfriend, risking his credibility thoroughly, he remained at the level of unfounded accusations, since neither the government, the Parliament, nor the National Security Committee, nor since yesterday we know that he has not been able to provide any credible evidence to the data subject himself, even though the National Security Committee has so far listened to the government's two ministers, five ministers of state in this matter. [[Nándor Gúr: Maybe they didn't understand!]] Three secret service executives and the national police commissioner said they didn't receive any information on the case from the United States co-organizations, such as the CIA or the FBI. We can conclude that, in the absence of all this, Mr Goodfriend's statements seem to be at present nothing more than a personal-motivated political pressure attempt. Dear Parliament, Meanwhile, matters that pose a real security risk to our country and the European Union and NATO, including the United States, are being removed from the agenda, such as the KGB relationship of the MSZP parliamentary candidate. [[Zoltán Gőgös: What about the Deputy Director General?]] As is known, the Socialists, who are also the chairman of the National Security Committee, will launch a candidate in the Újpest interim election in the person of Imre Horváth, who was trained as a professional BM officer in the Kádár system at a five-month KGB course in the early 1980s. And this way? In contrast to Good Friend, there is written evidence, supported by facts. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] In fact, the candidate himself admitted all of this to the public. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us get back to the Good Friend case. Well, the Hungarian opposition accepts only Mr Goodfriend's unfounded claims [[Zoltán Grimlock: Do you know that this is weak?!]] Therefore, it is not surprising that the MSZP Chairman of the National Security Committee has not implemented the Committee's decision in breach of the house rules. [[József Tobias: No offense!]] The opposition also accuses itself without evidence, at the same time risking the sovereignty of our country and the foundations of our democratic arrangement. No country will allow a citizen of another state without evidence [[Zoltán Grumpy: Lower your rent, son, that's better.]] You can accuse your own citizens of committing a crime on a provocative basis, it's a matter of sovereignty. On the other hand, democracies are also democracies from the need to prove not innocence but the guilt of the accused in a credible way and not an autodaphene. Whoever says it proves it. It is very important to pursue crime, to arrest and punish criminals, but it is at least as important to protect innocent people, honest and honest Hungarian people. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not what you did with Imre Horváth!]] The presumption of innocence is not just a legal category; every Hungarian citizen has a legal right to good repute, smooth work and the sanctity of privacy guaranteed by the basic law. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of recent weeks, it is unlikely, but at the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Homeland Security, we will also attempt to hear Mr André Goodfriend. It is in the interests of the Hungarian Government, the Parliament and the whole country to clarify this matter in a reassuring way. Therefore, we are asking the interim representative to come to the meeting, and, if necessary, with closed doors, without violating anyone's right, to present to the Members the solid evidence he refers to in support of the encouraging nodding and active involvement of the Hungarian opposition. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Zoltán Grimlock: Give him a big round of applause because he deserves it!]]
u2014-11-11-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-11-19	Thank you for the floor. Congressman! With regard to the issue of US state sanctions against Hungarian citizens, I can agree with you that it is necessary that we now need to hear what the United States suspects these Hungarian citizens for weeks now. All instruments are available, all legal instruments, such as a convention on criminal cooperation concluded in 2008, published by the Parliament in law, are available in other forms of criminal cooperation. Indeed, as you said, on these channels the Hungarian authorities did not receive any information from the United States, so it is time to clarify that we are dealing with a large bluff, or there is indeed some evidence in the hands of the United States. We are not asking this because we are allied with the United States, we are allied states, but because we are asking for it, according to the order of the Hungarian rule of law? Like you said? who claims, who accuses a person of a criminal offence, it must be demonstrated that at least the facts available must be brought to the attention of the authorities. By the way, if they were Hungarian officials, they would, of course, have an obligation to report these officials, so a Hungarian official is obliged to report and report crimes that have come to the attention of the Hungarian authorities. Of course, this does not apply to foreign diplomats, but we can therefore expect the United States to do so on the basis of cooperation and mutual criminal cooperation agreements. Of course, the government takes note and is interested in monitoring whether Parliament can obtain this information by various parliamentary means. We are very confident that the diplomats of the United States, accredited to Hungary, want to cooperate with the Hungarian Parliament and the process that they started by imposing official sanctions on Hungarian citizens, will enter into this process and will be willing to cooperate in order to investigate the charges. [[9.50]] I would add that the government has examined with the means at its disposal whether there is any suspicion of a criminal offence in these cases, whether there is any evidence of corruption in connection with the operation of the NAV at all. We know very well that many of these charges have been made. These reports of corruption [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] the authorities have always taken it seriously and have always investigated the suspicion of corruption. Thus, the Hungarian authorities carry out procedures in a transparent manner in the event of suspicion of corruption. I have already quoted here in Parliament that the Honourable Parliament has passed a notification protection law, which has already been in force since 1 January 2014. On this basis, under the notification protection law, independent persons should be designated by public authorities to accept allegations of corruption; these independent persons should be protected from labour law. But if someone does not trust a system of whistleblower protection with their own public authority, they can turn to the Commissioner for Civil Rights, so they can turn to the Ombudsman, who can conduct a completely independent and anonymous inquiry into the matter. So I ask you very much that those who reveal corruption cases in certain public offices should take advantage of the opportunities provided by the new law. The law on whistleblower protection grants them rights and protection that guarantee that corruption is suspected of being investigated in all cases. The government is committed to fighting corruption, and it will conduct these investigations if there is a reasonable suspicion of corruption. Thank you very much for your comment. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. We will continue our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill initiating the publication of the 2014 amendment to the Agreement on International Carriage of Goods by Rail and its Annexes will follow. The submission was made in T/1225. was given to them. The rapporteur was Mr T/125/2. No 2 submitted an adjustment containing a translation error. Since there is no committee for discussion on the bill and no amendment has been tabled, the final vote follows. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1225. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 150 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. The final vote on the Communication on the professional activities of the State Court of Auditors in 2013 and on the proposal for a decision initiating the adoption of the report on the operation of the institution. Opinion of the Economic Committee on its own motion H/1702 was given to them. The Committee has not tabled an amendment closing a detailed debate, nor has the meeting of the Legislative Committee been convened. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the H/1702/1. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. The amending proposal aims to extend the scope of the State Audit Office's audit activities. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/1702/1. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The MSZP Group has proposed H/1702/1. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. The amending proposal aims to extend the scope of the State Audit Office's audit activities. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/1702/1. Amendment No 1. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the proposal with 38 votes in favour, 117 against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/1702. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 116 votes in favour, 30 against and nine abstentions. The 2012 CCIV on Hungary's central budget for 2013 follows. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill implementing law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/1143. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. T/1143/33. and its summary report is T/1143/34. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group has proposed the T/1143/16. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. T/1143/16. László Kiss and other representatives amend the actual expenditure of the Bethlen Gábor Fund in Annex 1 to the bill. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1143/16 will uphold the request of the MSZP. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1143/33. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 27 against and 16 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1143/35. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 31 against and 13 abstentions. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the draft law on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2013. The separate motion of the Committee on Budgets is T/244. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/244/7. T/244/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed T/244/3. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. That is what we are voting on first. T/244/3. In the amendment tabled by Mr President Novák, by supplementing the bill, he proposed that the audit of the Authority's budget should also be carried out by the State Audit Office. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of Jobbik, T/244/3. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 21 votes in favour, 119 against and 20 abstentions. [[10.00]] As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/244/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 29 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/244/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 118 votes in favour, 43 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote and the decision on a summary amendment to the draft law on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2015. A separate motion by the Committee on Budgets T/1577. On the parliamentary IT network, all of them could reach it. T/1577/7. T/1577/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group has proposed the T/1577/3. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. That is what we decide first. T/1577/3. In amendment No 1 to the amendment, Mr President Novák proposed an obligation to make a deposit instead of a reserve instead of an amendment to Annex 1 to the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of Jobbik, T/1577/3. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 18 votes in favour, 119 against and 25 abstentions. As the Parliament has not retained the amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1577/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1577/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes in favour, 45 against and without abstentions. The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. Individual motion by our fellow Members Katalin Csöbör and György Balla Fideszes T/1427. On the parliamentary IT network, it was available to all of them. T/1427/7. T/1427/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1427/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1427/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes in favour, 7 against and 35 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill on the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code to improve the protection of children and vulnerable persons. Individual motion by Gabriella Selmeczi and our fellow Members Erik Bánki Fidesz T/1328. Number 2 is available on the IT network. T/1328/13. T/1328/14. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed by T/1328/4. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. That is what we decide first. T/1328/4. In the amendment tabled by Mr Bernadett Szél, by supplementing the bill, he proposed that certain crimes against the freedom of sex should also be prosecuted. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1328/4 will maintain the T/1328/4 on the basis of the LMP's request. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 25 votes in favour, 138 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1328/13. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 165 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1328/16. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, on the basis of the request of the LMP Group, the Parliament has already carried out an investigation into the state security history of the dominant players of national policy following the regime change, H/484. The debate on the inclusion of a series of proposals for a decision. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you, will you be included in a series of questions, Mr András Schiffer H/484. I have put forward a proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution into consideration by 51 votes in favour, 111 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, also on the basis of the request of the LMP Group, the Parliament has already carried out the necessary amendments to the laws concerning the exclusion of the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the wearing of certain public offices. The debate on the inclusion of Bill No. 1 in the series of articles. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you, will you be included in a series of questions, Mr András Schiffer T/485. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] [[10.10]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 49 votes in favour, 112 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We have reached the end of our decision-making process. Before we continue our work with our general debate, I am ordering a two-minute technical break in order to allow all our fellow Members who leave the Chamber without delay to perform their duties. [[It's a short break.]] I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. We will continue our discussion. A general debate on the draft law on a single electronic card framework will follow up until closure. The submission was made in T/1761. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás, Minister of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-11-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We all experience that today citizens use uniform public, municipal and economic services more often by means of some kind of electronic card identification, electronic cards and IT systems. However, as the number of services increases, the number of different e-cards is also increasing, as no one... [[Noise.]]
u2014-11-11-22	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, one moment, please. My fellow Members, who do not have a job in the Chamber, at least make it possible to hear the State Secretary's exposé. Thank you for your understanding, and I would like to ask those of you who have an official mission elsewhere to come over there. Thank you very much. Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-11-23	Thank you. Thus, the number of card issuers is constantly increasing, but it is typical that the improvements made by the service providers are incompatible with each other and not interoperable. Therefore, there is no system available to ensure the identification of users by electronic means, in a uniform and credible manner guaranteed by the State, and thus the provision of personalised services, whether guaranteed by the State or by market participants, rights and benefits. By building such a framework, with guaranteed authentication and identification functions, the development that has been done so far in island style would be much cheaper to achieve or replace. In this case, the individual systems should not already organise all elements, aspects, identification, facial image, system development and production of the card issue process; in the case of market use, it is sufficient to ensure compliance only with the technical requirements of the statutory interface to ensure the connection to the single card system, and, in the case of public use, to impose the obligation of accession at the level of sectoral legislation and to lay down the rules for related sectoral data processing. The single electronic card issuance framework therefore does not mean direct card issuance and use, but rather covers a legal and technical framework that creates the most important technological, procedural, organisational and other framework conditions for standardising electronic card issuance and eliminates the lack of authenticity associated with the identification service provided by the State and the background database. Thus, specific user applications are not part of the framework, but are the result of its independent developments created accordingly. The NEK central register shall contain the unique identifiers of the user's cards issued in the system and their issue and the validity of the card separately per card assigned to each card user's personal data. The NEK central register does not contain, does not collect, only acts as a background register in order to provide the card taker with electronic information on whether the card is valid. Specific card issuances related to public functions, as they are linked to sectoral registers and data management rules related to these systems should be specifically regulated at the level of sectoral law. This regulation is not part of the NEK framework. It is also necessary to regulate the specific document security requirements for each card at the level of sectoral legislation. The card issue shall be carried out by the card issuer designated by law or authorised by authority by filling in a card application form for persons with card users' registration. The card issuer shall keep a record of the details of the cards issued. Part of this register is data on the existence of a card user's entitlement or fact for the purpose of issuing, in fact the function for which the issue takes place, such as the sector register. The card may be issued to a person with a card user registration valid in the NEK system on the basis of an individual application or a sectoral law submitted to the card issuer. The application for the issue of a card may be submitted by means of a form provided by the card issuer. The card-acceptor shall have an electronic card reader complying with the technical requirements of the proposed regulation. The principle of operation of the system is that, on the basis of the unique electronic identifier of the card, the NEK central database shall provide information on the sector or market register of the function carried by that card. The data on eligibility or fact can then be requested from the sectoral or market register, so it is essential that such data is not contained in the NEK central register. A guarantee rule is that the card-acceptor has access to only NEK's central register data on the validity of the card during the electronic reading of the card. In the case of an invalid card, the NEK central register shall provide only information on the fact of invalidity. In the case of a valid card accepter, you have access to the data of the issuer of the card, and this data allows you to access the data to verify the existence of the entitlement or other fact for the purpose of issuing the card, so that you can practically use the card for that task. [[10.20]] According to the bill, it is possible to issue a primary, physical and so-called secondary, i.e. directly separated virtual card, which does not exist in tangible reality, but is also electronically assigned to the primary card. The regulation on secondary cards makes it possible for the user to have a theoretically infinite function on a single physical card, if he so wishes, and for the cards in question, not excluded by the sectoral law. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in order to establish a single electronic card framework. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-11-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker within a 15-15-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-25	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Please allow me, fellow Members, to add only a few points to the previous speaker and also to stress and confirm the need for the adoption of the proposed bill. [[Some MSZP representatives bring the Hungarian and EU flag to the Chamber and place it in the last line of the MSZP fraction. ? Dr. Répássy, Róbert: It is a great thing that at least you brought in the Hungarian flag!]] The need for the introduction of a single national card system was established in 2010 and since then efforts have been made to enable citizens to use certain economic, state and municipal services by means of electronic card identification and electronic cards. Based on the experience gained so far, the objective previously set is seen to be met and the number of e-cards operating on different platforms is increasing, while the number of card issuers is increasing. However, insular developments are not compatible with each other. There is no system available to ensure the identification of users by electronic means in a uniform and credible manner guaranteed by the State. There is a risk that the provision of personalised services, the use of privileges and benefits will also be put in the background. Dear fellow Members, As the Secretary of State has already said, it is not a question that there is a need to build a framework that would make improvements that have so far been island-like much cheaper with the help of guaranteed authenticity and identification functions. The aim of the proposal is to create legal and technical conditions for a single electronic card issuance framework that would allow, on the one hand, the basic technological, procedural, organisational and other framework conditions for standardising electronic card issuance. On the other hand, at the same time, with the identification service provided by the State and with the help of the personal data and address register, it would address the lack of authenticity associated with the identification. The resulting record would include the details of the cards belonging to each person and would ensure a link with the sectoral or commercial systems, thereby guaranteeing that each entitlement is not linked to the card but to the person who is actually entitled to it. In addition to the principles and guarantee rules laid down accordingly, the submitted bill provides for the registration of card users, the central card register, the rules on card issuance and the process of acceptance. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to ask you, along with me, to support the development proposal before us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-11-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Members of the MSZP, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this House has a unified image. Think about what it would mean if national minority advocates brought in every day the flag indicating the national identity of their own nationalities and the Hungarian flag as well! [[Intercoms from the benches of MSZP and LMP.]] Then we wouldn't even be able to fit in the whole house. [[Defiance. ? Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Which nationality flag did you bring in? ? Noise.]] So we will continue our work accordingly. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, allow me just one thought: I believe that the flag of the European Union represents the identity of all of us. He should be here in the house, by the way, officially. He's been here for the last cycle. He's not here right now. We think that's why it's justified to bring him in. On the subject of the item on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to introduce a single electronic card issuance framework, which is to standardise the conditions for electronic card issuance and to provide identification services based on a public database. It would allow an electronic card to carry several functions and ensure uniform access to public services and transparency in the use of public benefits. One of the objectives of the single electronic card issuance system is, according to the explanatory memorandum, to authentically identify card holders. This is done by recognizing the facial image and signature, based on the address record. In addition, the system contains technical specifications but does not issue a card. The operator of the system will be an administrative body and an organisation with authority. Several of the certificates currently in use are planned to continue to operate within the framework. For the first time in 2012, educational certificates, such as student, educator and educator cards, will be included in the framework. Citizen IDs and the government official card are also issued in a NEK-compatible manner. We have also heard of the idea that the ID, the tax card and the Taj card would be included in the system, and that even the coordination of the electronic ticket system for social transport will be ensured with the NEK within a few years. Dear Parliament, This bill is surprising from a government that has repealed or not allowed to enter into force the progressive rules of electronic administration, and has advocated electronic communication in words only over the last few years. I have to say, we might as well welcome this bill if it weren't for some problems, but unfortunately, there is. It is legally acceptable that a single electronic card issuance system is established, i.e. a standard for issuing electronic cards. The aim is to create a framework law, which will be used when issuing specific electronic cards when introducing the cards required by each sectoral law. The framework already established by law will therefore be completed by these sectoral laws, which will be the real content of the system. So I ask you: where are these sectoral laws? How do we know, in the light of the legislative rampage of the majority of governments, that once these sectoral laws are in place, we will not have to touch this law again? It would therefore be extremely difficult to see the functioning of this new system as a whole; I hope that Mr Secretary of State will give some answers to these points and questions. Under the proposal, the law would enter into force on 1 August 2015. Since the government's objective is to launch a complex, complex IT system, it is doubtful whether a functional framework, subject to thorough tests, can be established in time. [[10.30]] Dear Parliament, Speaking of timing, the only reason why this proposal comes at a very bad time to Parliament is because it is not credible to have a government policy that for weeks stands up for the introduction of an Internet tax in a country that is digitally based on almost all of the EU Member States. In many cases, it has been revealed that the Government of Viktor Orbán is not a fan of transparent operation. Electronic operation, whether in financial operations or in administration, is much more transparent than, say, personal administration or payment of cash. This is precisely the development that today's Hungarian government has taken with its actions. Therefore, it is hardly possible to believe that this bill is intended to move the Cabinet in the opposite direction. The card system hasn't been completed yet, but there are already some strange transactions about its financing. The NEK will be set up in the framework of an EU project. The main beneficiary of the nearly HUF 800 million grant agreement is the Central Office for Public Administration and Electronic Public Services, which spends 95 percent of the money, i.e. HUF 800 million. Is this about that central office, ladies and gentlemen? Just how do I recite things? , which gave Detre Diána an olympian company a commission of HUF 23.9 million to write studies, contact planning and communication tasks. I'm sure everyone knows how this lady is connected to the ruling parties and one of your former State Secretarys. The amount is also interesting because under HUF 25 million the ordering state office does not have to issue open public procurement. This office, ladies and gentlemen, is responsible for the NEK project. It'll be worth it, I think we'll take care of it, we'll keep an eye on it. Dear Parliament, Two, once again, two days have been granted to the present proposal. Obviously, positions other than government wills are not to be considered, but they are not willing to listen. Nor do they intend to comply with the minimum requirements for better regulation, as neither the Data Protection Authority involved in its tasks nor the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights issued a professional resolution on this bill. The question is, where do you think you're going to rush to again? Is there a hurry because EU funds need to be accounted for? There can be no other reason for this if the sectors are not yet prepared to fit into the framework. We recommend that you give yourself enough time to think and the system to function smoothly. It is also proposed that the use of the horritable cost of developing the card system will be strictly monitored instead of the government's management of civil society organisations. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that mistrust has been given several times. I myself would like it if we did not have to focus on this in connection with an improvement. The MSZP faction will only support the adoption of proposals to amend the bill, and I will say this once again, and we will focus on the continuation of cases with árgus eyes. Thank you very much for your support.
u2014-11-11-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Volner, Deputy Group Leader. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Me, too? Like my fellow Member? I regret that there was very little time available for the Committees of Parliament and Members of Parliament to deal with this large and serious bill themselves. I also complain that the professional discussions, the data protection concerns that have been expressed in relation to the bill, have not been satisfactorily clarified over the past period. I would ask the government's present representative, Mr Secretary of State, to be kind enough to change this practice. Legislative proposals are regularly submitted to the Parliament in the same way as this one. In order to put this bill in its context, I would like to go back to 2010, when the government has already talked about the national electronic card system and has foreseen the introduction of it. At the time, György Matolcsy said that the cost of bureaucracy in Hungary is HUF 2800 billion per year, and this is what the government intends to reduce by 30 percent, i.e. HUF 840 billion. The question is, by what means, how to achieve this. The electronic card system obviously simplifies a lot of processes, as a single card, a single electronic identification card, can be used to replace several documents, and in many areas this document will be available for administration of life. But the question is that this process of state reform, which has started since the entry into office of the Orbán government, is how planned it works, how planned it is, where the electronic card system is located and where its role is. May I remind you, fellow Members, that, after the change of regime, it was necessary to wait until 2007, for 17 years, for a public-service survey to be carried out at all. At present, if I ask the Secretary of State how many public tasks the e-card will help in the future, he will not be able to respond to it, he cannot quantify it, simply because there has not been a similar public service survey in Hungary since 1997. By the way, in a six-level functional grouping, 9045 different public tasks in state and municipal systems were quantified, and the basis for the idea of state reform, represented by the Government of the Secretary of State, could obviously be to assess public tasks, to have a picture of where we are now, where we would like to go with the implementation of state reform, and to what different steps this will take, such as the unification of the electronic card system. It's a XXI. It is a proposal of the century, but it is only a question of where the role of this is in the state reform process. If I now ask Mr Secretary of State to show us how many public tasks are being performed at the moment and in what functional grouping the various offices are, then Mr State Secretary will say that, indeed, he cannot respond immediately to this. But it would not be such a big problem if Mr Secretary of State could tell us where this could be achieved, for example, on the Internet, because such a public task survey has not been carried out. For now, therefore, we are indeed legislating a framework. The only thing about this national single card is that it is not yet possible to know how many areas to use it, but there have been very serious data protection concerns about the potential for abuse by some, either without funds or without funds, but there is no doubt that social and professional dialogue was important in order to address these concerns and, as far as possible, to clarify these issues as reassuringly as possible. There has also been a lot of nonsense about the introduction of an electronic card system on the part of the government. Now let me quote you, fellow Members, a true curiosity. According to Mr Norbert Kiss, Deputy State Secretary for Higher Education and Science, this type of student card based on a national single card system has become of age, European, the intelligence of the new document is equal to that of a student in higher education; that is what the Government's Deputy State Secretary for Education and Science has said. My fellow Members, if that is the case, according to the Deputy Secretary of State, I see a serious problem around the card system here, and do not be surprised that similar unfounded, stupid statements only confirm these concerns. Do I complain about that, too, Mr. Secretary? is it not enough to read in Parliament a very dry justification, which is the general justification for the bill? that it will not be understandable for many people how this single card system helps them, what it helps them to do. It is also important to say that a great deal of money can be saved for both people and the state if this single electronic card system is introduced. [[10.40]] For example, if you want to travel and if you want to go from Budapest to the countryside, or if you are travelling in Budapest, a large number of people are currently avoiding the payment of ticket prices, for example, because they simply use travel for too short periods. For example, if a person takes a stop or two by tram, this is a very tangible example that everyone can understand, and the BKK ticket prices reaching Western European prices will not be paid for, and 300 forints will not be able to do so. However, if a stop or two were to be paid in proportion to the journey, i.e. in proportion to the journey taken, so that people would be willing to spend money, it would be easier to control the system itself, to spend less on control expenditure, and, as appropriate, to build a lighter, cleaner, more transparent system. What has now been accomplished? Since your entry into office, various Community-owned companies have introduced solutions based on similar electronic card or electronic payment methods since 2010. These were not compatible with each other, if someone started using the service in one of them and then moved to another service provider's territory, then this system was not interoperable. The question immediately arises as to why I needed XXI. In the first century, waiting for years to create a similar system, and why the haste is that if we have waited four years for this card system to be introduced, then the final proposal, which contains a lot of detailed rules, why was not given a meaningful social consultation, why there were no substantive professional debates on this. I am talking about the final proposal, Mr Secretary of State, not the fact that people have been talking about the national single card system for years, but we have only recently learned about this final proposal in this form. So, along with these excuses, I say that this is a forward-looking, good proposal, but the concerns that have been raised about it would be very important to resolve, and I would ask the Secretary of State to be kind enough to examine and address these concerns in substance in the final part of his speech. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-30	Thank you very much, Deputy Group Leader. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr András Schiffer. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to start by saying, Mr Secretary of State, that, of course, we regard electronic administration as a good direction, so that we can also support the various laws on the development of electronic administration. However, it should also be pointed out in advance that, in all cases where the government is making improvements, obviously working towards the future, which points to the electronic administration, the introduction of different elements of electronic administration within administrative staff should also be taken into account. At a time when the previous Parliament, i.e. in autumn 2010, the two-thirds majority, passed the legislative law, this law contained a proposal for impact assessments to be carried out in government proposals, these impact assessments to be presented to the Parliament. We voted in favour of this law, too. Have you responded to this in the last four-year term by making the really important laws with individual representatives' motions? Imre Vas? It was presented and was a rare guest at the house with the government proposal. We have a government proposal now, and we should be happy about that, but the problem is that the government brings it here to the House without complying with the legislative law which it has created or the two-thirds majority. Is there a need for an impact assessment when we talk about the introduction of e-administration? and, in the knowledge of it, prepare the bill itself and decide for the House? which shows how many jobs will be lost in public administrations by developing e-government, and how many new jobs may be indirectly generated by the development of e-administration. This would require clear surveys and clear figures, because while we believe that the development of electronic administration is essential, not least because it makes public administration more transparent, it allows citizens to participate directly and actively in administrative procedures in the long term, allowing various development projects affecting all of us, it is absurd to build electronic administrative infrastructure in local decisions. It is an opportunity to see, for example, Estonia's model in the not-so-distant future, for people to decide directly, say, on the things of a city or village. That is why it is important to develop electronic administration, but also to be aware of the government and the parliament that, if temporarily, but here, jobs will be lost, and responsiblely, it can be decided if there is an accurate statement of this on the table, and we can see where, from which sector, it is possible to replace these job losses. This has, moreover, been proposed by the LMP in connection with other laws and other parliamentary debates. In the event that the Hungarian government does not want a country that is practically a assembly hall for some large multi-company companies, but basically develops the local economy, does it help Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in as many R &amp; D projects as possible? Unlike the debate on yesterday's municipal law, when it came to the fact that you want to give different tax incentives to large multinationals again for R &amp; D, so if you invest in regulatory benefits, tax incentives, or direct subsidies for the development of the local economy, for the development of the domestic SME sector, it is possible that those qualified people who have to leave the administration, public service, and a new job in the private sector that corresponds to their qualifications may find. We do not see the impact assessments, we do not see how the otherwise welcome development process has an impact on the labour market, how it affects the fate of people working in public administration today, and those who today receive diplomas where public administration is the primary place of employment. Our second general problem with the bill is that the so-called bureaucracy reduction programme, State Reform II, has just been announced, known as the Government Resolution 1602/2014. The question is whether such a bill should not be submitted to the House after this State Reform II. The actual elements of this package are already seen in this House. What is our real problem with this proposal, however, is this. This is basically a framework proposal, and in principle it will be different sectoral laws and other sectoral laws that fill in content. On the one hand, we must be aware that the single electronic card system raises very serious data protection concerns. In the event that there is a single electronic card, there is a risk that everything that the Constitutional Court stated in the so-called so-called personal decisions in 1991, namely that the state or the various public bodies could not create a personality profile on citizens, this was at the time, after the change of regime, a transparent state, an opaque citizen's password, then this single electronic card raises the risk that individual authorities might still be able to create a single personality profile on the various aspects of personality. At the time, in 1991, the then constitutional judges argued precisely that it was not permissible for someone, say, to have their library habits, his illnesses, his travel habits, to gather together with a single authority in a uniform system. [[10.50]] That's the danger of the Orwell state, so the authorities know all about man. The question is, where did this bill leave the guarantee that, let's say, the tax authority should obtain only the tax identification mark and the personal information behind the tax identification mark. And the other problem of trust is this. You have put a proposal on the table that includes the technical solution to include this so-called RFID chip in this electronic card. This, in turn, is technically appropriate for the immediate residence of the citizen to be traceable by the public body. Again, this is an unacceptable restriction on the right of information self-determination, so that without any other legal authority, a public body can track the whereabouts of the cardholder's national. I think that this chip can be replaced in a relatively simple technical way, and we need legal guarantees that the definition of the place of residence will not be abused by the respective public bodies. So, to be clear, our two main concerns about data protection are as follows. On the one hand, it is not guaranteed that the Constitutional Court's decision, which was adopted in 1991, was precisely this 15/1991 Constitutional Court's decision to prohibit a uniform identification mark, the principles contained therein apply. So we don't want a country where a state authority can store all kinds of personal data, all kinds of habits, and all kinds of personal data of the individual, in a central location and, if appropriate, abuse, manipulate. And our other concern is this chip. We do not see the legal guarantee that the state will not abuse the technical possibility of determining the location of the card holder. And we didn't tell you that it was the experience of the past four years? And not just the last four years, excuse me? Based on the experience of the past many years, behind all such developments, it is remembered who has the best interests behind it. We have seen an article about the existence of a private business for people close to Fidesz or close to government behind the single card system. The Watcher also wrote a fine article about it, the name of András András Gál Levente was mentioned. We are not entirely confident that this new development, which, I say again, may be useful, is not again about whether it is entirely accidental and completely unusual that someone will benefit. We have not received a reassuring explanation from the government in recent weeks either, but the most important concern for LMP is that there is no legal guarantee, and in a framework law this would be expected not to be a step forward in order to create an Orwell state. There is no guarantee that the authorities will establish a uniform personality profile of the individual citizen, and there is no guarantee that the individual main authorities will not abuse the Chips capable of determining the location. Finally, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that, at the time of the presentation, the Ministry would have had a legal obligation to carry out the appropriate impact assessments and put them here on the House's table, because the development of the electronic administration, as much as it is welcome, is a goal to be welcomed by the LMP, because this is the way to participatory democracy, which is the way for citizens to actively participate in public affairs and administrative procedures for shaping their environment, but it should be taken into account by the loss of jobs in the public sector. It is unscrupulous to bring such a bill without long-term, to determine the state of the public sector for a long time, not to see exactly how many jobs are lost in the first place, or, in the second place, how many new jobs can be created by such a development, as this is also part of the deck and should be made in relation to it, and decisions should be made on this basis. We do not see this impact assessment, we have violated this legal obligation of the government, and this is an unscrupulous decision, an unscrupulous presentation of the staff of the administration today, an unscrupulous demonstration of those who are performing today at universities from which they hope to make a career in public administration. Therefore, it should be clear how such improvements are reorganising the labour market in the public sector, and it should be clear how long-term economic development plans could be suitable to create jobs elsewhere in the private sector for administrative professionals who have lost or not found a job. I therefore call on the Government to present, preferably before the adoption of the bill, what plans it has for replacing long-term jobs with, for example, a local economic development programme, the development of the domestic SME sector. Until then, I think that, as much as it is welcome for such an electronic administrative development, it is quite simply unscrupulous and will further deepen the employment crisis that Hungary has been involved in since the early 1990s. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-11-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, As there is no independent speaker, it is now possible to make two-minute comments. First I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-33	Mr President, Dear House, I have to respond to some of the things that have been said, because it is a far more important presentation than it could have been thought of at first glance. There have been very serious privacy concerns about the possibilities of localising the clip of the card. I must draw attention to this fact that student IDs currently treated as prototypes and which have already been newly issued have been substantially similar for two years. So we are talking about a problem in its process, and we need to force the reaction to it in the light of this. These privacy concerns are particularly problematic from the point of view of the government's attempts to bring this issue into the public address since 2010 and have not been eliminated since then. But answering an even more topical and perhaps very, very important question could help us to see more clearly, namely that Hungary's capital is thinking about developing an electronic ticket system at the moment, and, for example, it has already given us the authority to develop a comprehensive electronic ticket system for the metro system, because if the news did not deceive us, they would basically build this system from a large loan of HUF 15 billion, which seems to be simultaneously with what we have before us, because even the signing of the necessary contracts and the necessary legislative framework are flawed. So, Mr Secretary of State, please give me some kind of acceptable answer to the fact that, on the one hand, in addition to a serious budget reduction, a comprehensive national system is being put to a long-term conclusion, and, on the other hand, it is already taking place in parallel with a loan, possibly using a foreign investor and contractor, to build a system that might be harmonised with what lies ahead. Here, Hungary could save billions of serious savings and use them for national and social-building purposes from which we will fall because of these parallels. Thank you for your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2014-11-11-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Congresswoman Anita Heringes is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-11-35	The new system raises a number of questions that cannot yet be answered clearly, as in everyday life it will have an impact on all areas, from the address register to travel preferences, through the use of public supply systems, to the fulfilment of obligations to pay fees to public utility providers. It will be possible to identify, where appropriate, who had the privileges during the same period, who would benefit from the benefits, who would benefit from the services. The card contains sensitive personal information that is of concern based on data protection considerations. The new issue of cards will really only be good for the issuer, both for the card applicant and for the issuer, will be an extra burden and unnecessary burden. It will not be economically beneficial, either for the individual or for the state. This will only bring economic benefits to the card company, as I said. There will be no savings in the public administration or even a resource, as these cards will need to be centrally managed and supervised. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The administration will be faster not by issuing a new card, but by creating modern computing systems that you have been at odds with in the past, as we can see. It will strengthen the state's overpowerment and record every moment of the individual's life. I don't think that's gonna work. Thank you. [[11.00]]
u2014-11-11-36	Thank you very much. Welcome. We continue to work with speeches asking for a normal word. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Here you go. [[For signal:]] He's not in the room right now. In that case, the agenda is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Secretary of State, please.
u2014-11-11-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In what appears to be the majority of Parliament's factions agree that such an electronic card system, such a framework, may be suitable for it, it will be suitable for the rather complex and chaotic system in which we live today, as many card issuers as there are, and as many types of cards as there are, we can create a uniform and sustainable, useful design for everyone. The fundamental purpose of this law, and only that is its fundamental purpose, does not go beyond this to provide the framework to which the necessary sectoral regulations can contribute. The single electronic card issuance framework itself is not about issuing or issuing a new card, but about creating a framework in which the card holder can log in to the relevant service provider or to the relevant administrative service provider, and the service provider will only be able to access and search its own data and records on the basis of the login. So the concerns that a single card, this one card, would connect the databases in this way, are not well founded. The time of the law itself arose, on the one hand, that there was a very short time to read the law, to prepare. The bill was submitted on 27 October. Obviously, it is up to everyone to decide for themselves whether this period was enough to prepare, but the law was not submitted two days ago. And also in terms of time, many people have said that it should have been a long time ago, but at the same time they have set aside why we are rushing to do this, why we are rushing into doing this. I would therefore like to emphasise once again that a framework is being established in which no new card issue is being made. During the drawing and checking of the card, the citizen's entitlement is revealed to the provider of the given service. The service provider will not be able to navigate the entire database, will not be able to access the full database data. So there is no link between the data set and the habits of citizens, as Mr Schiffer has suggested here. Who's it for? I think that if such a single card system is developed and the number of cards issued is reduced, it is clearly good for those who are dealing with the issue of these cards today and are still providing services related to cards today, and it will be good for those user citizens who have to keep these cards on record today, have to use and mix them. So a simpler, transparent system is being created. I understand that there is basically an opposition attitude on the part of the opposition to the bill, but at the same time we could feel it from the majority of the speeches, and I thank you for your support for development, and you can accept the aspects of the direction of development itself. I trust that we can reach a consensus as much as possible in the legislative proposal and accept it with as much consensus as possible. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-11-38	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain legal status laws until closure. The submission was made in T/1767. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Robert Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, CXCIX 2011 on the status of civil servants was the government's top priority. Since the entry into force of Law 2012, the establishment of a service of public service officials based on a strong nation-consciousness and valued. The revision of the law is largely justified by the transfer of proposals in the application of the law after its entry into force, the need to comply with the requirements set out in the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the standards of European Union and international law. The amendment under the bill aims to amend the regulation in accordance with these requirements. In view of the close relationship of the Public Service Officers Act with a number of other professional laws, it is also necessary to amend other legal status laws which have become necessary in order to maintain the coherence of the legal system. For the above reasons, the bill contains the following major amendments. The most important change to the Public Service Officers Act is the addition of a new chapter to the regulation, which contains specific provisions concerning the employment relationship of the mayor and deputy mayor. In order to establish these rules, the Act on Local Governments of Hungary 73. It follows from Article 5 of the Act on Civil Service Officers, which lays down other provisions relating to the performance of the mayor's office. Accordingly, this proposed amendment provides for detailed rules on the legal status of the full-time mayor, including its formation, termination, freedom of the mayor, severance payments, disciplinary and compensation liability rules. As with previous legislation, the legal status of the full-time mayor remains governed in several cases by other rules of the Public Service Officers Act. The provisions were not intended to be completely detached from the previous rules; the derogations were justified only by the experience of the past years in the application of the law. In the context of the amendment, however, it is important to point out that, by including the rules on full-time mayors in the Public Service Officers Act, the full-time mayor does not become a government official or civil servant, but retains a special public service status, whether specific or not. In addition, the amendment of the rules on conflicts of interest, which was necessary to bring the rules on conflicts of interest of the Public Service Officers Act into line with the rules on conflicts of interest of the law on local governments of Hungary and the law on the rights of nationalities. In order to ensure that the right to hold a public office is ensured as widely as possible, while at the same time ensuring that a fundamental right to belonging to a nationality is not impossible, it is of the utmost importance that the rules on conflicts of interest of certain legal status laws be established in accordance with uniform principles. This coherence needs to be created by this amendment proposal. The rules on maternity leave will be clarified in order to ensure greater consistency with EU law. According to this, the mother continues to be entitled to 24 weeks of maternity leave, but as a result of the amendment, she is obliged to take two weeks of maternity leave, which, of course, can be taken not only before birth, but also after. [[11.10]] The change does not result in the loss of rights so far, as the employer can still not refuse to grant maternity leave for more than two weeks, or the full maternity leave granted by law, in the case of a request for that purpose. The Labour Code Act 65. Paragraph 5 of the Act on Civil Service Officers is amended to comply with the Ab decision on the establishment and annulment of the fundamental law of the text of the Act on Civil Service Officers in the event of pregnancy and treatment in connection with human reproductive procedures. Therefore, the circumstances underlying the exemption protection can be invoked by the government official not only in the case of prior notification, but only in the case of information to the employer. With this provision, the legislator intends to comply with the appeal contained in the Ab Decision that it is necessary to review the regulation of the public sector's employment relations and, in all cases where there is a provision of the same content as the annulled legislative provision, to abolish the fundamental law in accordance with the constitutional principles set out in the decision. In addition, technical clarification of the Public Service Officers Act will be carried out, inter alia, on the grounds of the reorganisation of the Administrative and Judicial Office, since as of 1 October 2014, the Office of Justice will carry out the duties of guardians, legal assistance and victim support. Further justification for the technical clarifications is the transfer of changes in government restructuring to the law. In order to maintain consistency with the law on public service officials and with the law on local governments in Hungary, the National Tax and Customs Office Act will be amended as regards conflict of interest rules. Moreover, in order to ensure consistency with EU law, maternity leave rules will be established in substance in accordance with the Public Service Officers Act. It was also necessary, in order to ensure consistency with the law on public service officials, to amend the law on certain obligations for the declaration of assets slightly. As a result, the category of persons subject to the declaration of assets was established in accordance with the terminology of the Public Service Officers Act, in addition to civil servants, government officials were also named in the regulation. Perhaps the most important achievement of the bill is that it establishes the legal basis for the certification of certain public officials named in the Fundamental Law, elected by the Parliament. Accordingly, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the President and Members of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Curia, the Attorney General, the President of the National Court of Justice, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates, and the President of the State Court of Auditors, shall issue the certificate to the President of the Parliament. In addition, the proposal provides the Speaker with a public official's card, issued by the Chairman of the Committee on Exemption, Conflict of Interest, Disciplinary and Ombudspersons' Board. No additional rights are attached to the card, only for the purpose of enabling the public official to prove that he is in office. In view of the fact that the certificate is issued by the President of the Parliament, the relevant rules are laid down in the Act on Parliament, not in the laws of legal status applicable to each public office. The 2011 CLXIV on the status of the General Prosecutor, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of prosecutors is necessary in order to ensure consistency and non-existence of parallel regulation. a minor amendment to the law. Like the Public Official Certificate, the proposal also concerns the rules on State Driver's Card. The aim is to standardise the provisions on the State Driver's Card without affecting the rights attached to the State Driver's Card. The proposal repeals the relevant mandate, thereby simplifying and making more transparent the provisions on the State Driver's Certificate. On the basis of the enforcement experience, another amendment to the Act on Central Administrations and the Status of Members of the Government and State Secretarys was made. According to this, in the future, the term of office of ministerial commissioners will be until the term of office of the Minister appointed as Minister for Foreign Affairs has ceased. In this context, the rules on the remuneration of the Minister's Commissioner will be clarified, with the aim of excluding double salaries. Finally, it is necessary to mention the amendment to the Law on the Status of Civil Servants, which took place in the light of the experience of law enforcement and aimed at promoting uniform application of law. The further reason for the amendment is to bring the law into line with the terminology of the Public Service Officers Act and to introduce technical clarifications on government restructuring. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The codification of the bill presented briefly was accompanied by a wide-ranging conciliation process. In addition to communicating with the wallets concerned, the Ministry of Justice has taken particular care to take into account the experience of the case-law, its observations, the issues raised in the application of the law, difficulties as far as possible and to adapt the regulation accordingly. The legislator should endeavour to address the problems in practice in a timely and effective manner and, following changes in the legislative and social environment, to adopt provisions that help to implement the law, which meet the expectations of the national constitutionality and of the EU and international standards. I trust that the prepared bill will meet the above requirements and will be able to provide sufficient support for the application of the law, to ensure consistency between the legal status laws, thus ensuring the maintenance of the evaluation professions. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, and there will be keynote speeches in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-41	Mr President, Fellow Members! I would just like to say briefly about the bill before us. At the end of October, the Government presented the bill that we are discussing, which aims at technical amendments to certain legal status laws. Firstly, the proposal amends the Act on the Status of Civil Servants, the main reason for which is that references to the repealed Act on the Status of Civil Servants are replaced by references to the Law on Public Service Officers in force. The purpose of the amendment is to implement technical changes related to government restructuring. On the basis of the proposal, it was also necessary to ensure consistency between the Act on Certain Declarations of Assets and the Act on Public Service Officers. It is necessary to amend this law in order not only to impose an obligation to declare property to civil servants, but also to government officials. The proposal also amends the Act on Central Administrations and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the term of office of ministerial Commissioners in accordance with their public-law situation. The term of office of the Minister for Foreign Affairs shall run until the Minister for Foreign Affairs has appointed him; if not, until the term of office of the appointed Minister following the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In this way, the proposal seeks to exclude the possibility of twice-paying and twice-paying of ministerial Commissioners. For this law, the proposal also clarifies the authorisation for the identification of members of the government and other state leaders. In order to maintain consistency with the law on public service officials, the National Tax and Customs Office Act will be amended. The purpose of the amendment is to include a mandatory two-week period of maternity leave in accordance with Union law. [[11.20]] The next point of the proposal is the amendment of the law on local governments in Hungary. On the one hand, the change to the law in question is of a more precise nature, since the text that expresses the original legislative intention is laid down more precisely than the rules of conflict of interest. The essence of the conflict of interest is that the municipal representative should not be able to carry out media content services. Another amendment to the proposal is to refer the termination of the mayor's post to the jurisdiction of the administrative and labour courts within this law. The reason for this is that it is more likely that a labour law inquiry will be brought about by the termination of the post and that the courts will be relieved of the burden. The main purpose of the bill is to address the problems encountered in the application of the law under the Public Service Officers Act and to ensure consistency between the provisions of EU law and the provisions of this Act. A new chapter of the Law on Civil Service Officers is added in relation to the implementation of the conflicts of interest governed by the municipal law, which contains detailed rules relating to the relationship of the mayor or deputy mayor. Finally, I would like to mention that the proposal regulates the legal basis for the certification of certain public officials. Accordingly, the National Assembly shall issue the certificate certifying the post to the public officials. In addition, the proposal would also provide the Speaker with a public official's card issued by the Chairman of the Committee on Exemption, Conflict of Interest, Disciplinary and Ombudspersons. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Since this is a technical amendment, please support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-42	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here.
u2014-11-11-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree with what the Secretary of State says that this bill has been through such a wide range of social consultations, and I would like to continue my contribution there exactly? Just like I did last week when there was a debate on the bill related to the central address register? That, yes, there is a lack of social consultation here, too. It can be said that it is now almost intolerable to draw the attention of the government at all times to the fact that it cannot ignore the obligation of legislation to consult society. As much as the government would like to make it believe that it has the Philosopher's Stone and always knows everything better than anyone else, we must tell you, fellow Members of the Government, that this is now slowly being believed not only by us opposition representatives but by no one. For people, it has become more and more certain that there is a need for genuine social debates and professional preparation, which is even more important before discussing the legislative proposals. If this does not happen, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, we see what we see on the streets every day: people are trying to express their views on the streets, which they are doing very well, as long as this continues in a peaceful way. Indeed, on 28 August 2014 the judicial portfolio submitted a draft of 16 sections to be discussed in relation to this bill. And you can see how important the protection of those concerned was for the government, because as soon as this deadline for comment was over, the number of amendments planned doubled; so much for social consultation. Of course, the draft is according to the Impact Assessment Paper: regular communication, regular powder, everything is fine, everything is good, everyone is prepared to accept the law, and it will certainly not cost anyone anything. We are now faced with a legislative proposal of 29 sections, the few virtues of which we can mention that it does correspond at least to its title and actually regulate legal status issues. Some sections of the Act will enter into force immediately and most will enter into force on 1 January 2015. The amendment of the municipal law will enter into force on the day following the announcement; the amendment of the law that was already amended last week. With regard to the previous amendment, the seal has not yet dried on the amendment, and we have again before us the amendment of the municipal law. 11 of this proposal. §2 of the Act regulates the conflict of interests of representatives of local governments, which means that, under the rules in force, a natural person from the media world, including the media content provider, cannot be a local government representative. I would like to say what is the justification for this, and I quote: the Mötv. lay down its rule of conflict of interest, with a text that better expresses the original legislative intention. I'm really going to ask the government's representative what this is all about. Is this to keep the public out of the running of the municipalities? Because if I look closely, that's what this is about: neither a municipal representative nor an external committee member can be a person in the future whose profession is somehow connected to the media. I respectfully ask once again, Mr. Secretary, why this was necessary. Why was that so important? Tell me what the legislator's original and real intention was. Of course, I'm afraid I won't get an answer to that, just like I didn't get any answers to any of my questions last week. But I continue, there is something more amazing: the bill is 13 and 20. § 2 of the Act extends the law of public service officials to the employment relationship between mayors and sub-Mayors. A whole chapter is, by the way, introduced by the law, the bill before us, on how to regulate the labour law of mayors and sub-Mayors in the future. At the time of the publication of the existing municipal law on 28 December 2011, the following rule became applicable: other provisions relating to the performance of the mayor's office are laid down in the Public Service Officers Act. Therefore, the question of the mayor's office and the repeal of the Law on the Honorary Fee of Municipal Representatives of Hungary was provided for in 2011 by the Act on Local Local Governments of Hungary, which was to expire on the day of the 2014 municipal elections. What does that mean, fellow Members? In fact, it means that, one month after the municipal elections and until the bill comes into force, there is no special legal provision in the Hungarian legal system that the mayor's legal relationship is a specific public service relationship, that the full-time legal relationship is a retirement period, that, in the case of the mayor, the body of representatives exercises employer rights, there is no specific rule for disciplinary action, liability for damages, and I could still list it. In the absence of regulation, mayors and sub-Mayors are provided for in the Public Service Officers Act. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you cannot be serious and you can see that the law of public service officials is obviously completely inapplying to the employment relationship between mayors and sub-Mayors. But what is more incomprehensible than that is to explain? , it is that the 2011 municipal law provided that the law on the status of mayor would be repealed. Tell me why you had to wait three years to create new laws. In 2011, they knew precisely that in 2014, following the municipal elections, this law would expire. Tell me what you've been waiting for. Who is responsible for not dealing with this issue for three years? Of course, the question is poetic, because I understand exactly that you have been engaged in one-sided amendments to the rules on municipal elections for you, or I could say that you have been engaged in the destruction of Budapest, but you could have had one or two people among you who, by the way, for three years created these provisions on the status of mayors. Think about what's going on right now, by the way. The law is 25. According to Article 4 of the Act, the provisions with favourable content should apply to the newly elected mayors and sub-Mayors and not to the other persons of a more restrictive nature, such as disciplinary, liability for damages, the transfer of mayor's duties and powers, severance payments, and so on. The legal issue is, therefore, what kind of legislation applies to mayors in the unOrdened circles; we do not see this yet. In summary, it can therefore be concluded that the repeal of the law on the status of mayors was completely unnecessary and was a failed legislative step. [[11.30]] As a result, the new law clearly does not apply to mayors and there is a crowd of regulatory holes. By the way, if we compare the repealed law with the provisions contained in this proposal, it contains the same word for word; then I do not understand why it was necessary for that law to be abolished then. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is another question, indeed, on the subject of ministerial Commissioners. The bill is not at all brazen when it comes to ministerial commissioners in the negotiation of the proposal. You may no longer remember it, but in 2010, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State for Administrative Affairs and the Deputy State Secretary, who was also the Minister of State, could not receive any remuneration. I repeat, he couldn't receive any extra fees. Then, as you came in with your previous administration, the legislation allowed the state leader to receive remuneration for his activities as Minister of State not in connection with his duties. And the regulation we are proposing is precisely saying that regardless of whether the activities of the Secretary of State and the Minister of Ministers are related or unrelated, there is still an additional benefit for him. This is amazing and cynical, fellow Members, even if the justification says that the aim is to exclude the possibility of a double salary in the remuneration of the Minister's Commissioner. If that was the aim, Mr Secretary of State, then let us say clearly that for the tasks of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, or who holds the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is no extra payment for that. According to the proposed legislation, it is precisely possible that the state leader could obtain twice as much salary for his work, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, plus a Deputy State Secretary's remuneration. In this way, the salary of state leaders, without the public knowing it precisely, could be up to HUF 1.5 million. I can only describe this, Mr. Secretary of State, as you say? I'd like to use Fidesz to describe it? It's a brazen, cynical wage increase. The number of ministerial commissioners is, by the way, refused to be limited by the government, which should be done, as it also has a binding mandate to establish a regulation. The MSZP also had an amendment proposal in relation to this, that no remuneration should be paid to the state manager for the activities of the ministerial commissioner, even if it is related to his job, even if it is not related to his job. To sum up, therefore, the bill, Mr Secretary of State, I can tell you that the lack of preparation of the bill, the lack of consultation, the serious legal gaps, because of the extra fee the government intends to provide to its Fidesz State Secretarys, the MSZP cannot support this bill. Thank you.
u2014-11-11-44	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It is worth analyzing this submitted salad-like proposal, looking at it almost from stage to stage. For the first three paragraphs, we do not have any particular problems, we see different text changes and expiry regulations. Article 4 § 1 is more interesting, since it amends the rules on certain obligations for the declaration of property in such a way that, in addition to the civil servant, the government official is included, which in itself is not a problem, since the extension of the obligation to make a declaration of property is not a thought far from Jobbik. Would it be worthwhile to consider this with Members of Parliament, or even with certain positions of senior civil servants or government officials? For a long time, we've been saying we're pushing, do we always get rid of these suggestions? , even introducing the concept of compulsory propertyisation investigations, and launching a propertyisation investigation at specified intervals in certain managerial or higher management positions, either upon receipt of the mandate or upon termination of the mandate or in accordance with certain precisely fixed rules, especially in cases where it receives high remuneration, say, a senior civil servant or government official, or a member of the government, secretary of state or minister. This would greatly help to regain the authority of politics and politicians. But by the way, we're not thinking of the wealth studies that we've seen, say, in the case of Rogán or Sir Szijjártó, because it's a joke because they've been conducting an investigation in a few weeks. Ask, let's say, a Fidesz-like, targeted entrepreneur, if the NAV launches a property investigation against him, it will take a few weeks, a few months, or rather a few years. The correct answer is.c., it takes a few years to complete a procedure with a lot of tension and a payment obligation of several million forints in general. Once again, it is legitimate to violate the self-esteem of the people, the self-esteem of the entrepreneurs who have been examined and, at times, violated unnecessarily or unjustly, that, according to the law, they are not subject to the same rules as politicians, especially pro-government politicians. So it would have been more credible if, at the ministerial level, a thorough, long-term examination of the two gentlemen mentioned above had determined whether their wealth, movable and real estate assets were in proportion to their taxed income, corresponding or possibly excessive. Once again, in addition to their completely unilateral legislation, the application of the law serving absolute self-interests is the fact that they regard themselves not only as guiding other principles in the field of lawmaking, but also in the field of law enforcement in a completely biased way, in a completely transparent way, they believe that a few weeks of propertyisation will mislead the public. That is why this 4th would be worth it. In addition, or in addition to other laws, to introduce the concept of compulsory propertyisation investigation. Then the 5th and 6th. In connection with Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure, the problem mentioned earlier by my fellow MSZP Member is that the proposed norm and the justification are contradictory. What is the current text on the Minister's Commissioner? According to the text in force, this mandate of the Minister of Ministers shall cease with the end of the term of office of the Minister which appointed him. What do you want now, what is the new proposal? That the mandate will not end with the end of the ministerial mandate, but that the cessation of the powers of the old minister will also result in the termination of the ministerial commissioner. What's the reason for that? The fact that it is not the exercise of the powers of the old minister, but the beginning of the exercise of the powers of the new minister, is the reason for the termination. This may coincide in time, but it is not in stone at all, perhaps a new minister's mandate begins with a serious time difference. So it would be good to decide whether the original rule would remain, because it is much better than this contradiction; then the mandate of the Minister of Ministers should be terminated when the term of office of the Minister who appointed him ceases. The clear contradictions in the norm and reasoning need to be resolved. Articles 7 and 9 §, which then in another respect is referred to as Article 17. It also recalls and does not cause any particular problems: due to an old EEC Directive, the relevant rules on maternity leave are finally included in the legislation. More exciting than that is the tightening of conflict of interest rules for NAV workers. At present, the rule or rule was that the government official, the finance officer, the administrator cannot be a representative of local government and minority self-government, but only in the municipality that operates in the organisational area of the NAV's body that employs him. Compared to this, they expand and tighten significantly, and now there can be no local government representative, external committee member, local minority self-government president, vice-chairman, national minority self-government president, vice-chairman or minority self-government representative, who is a government official, finance officer or administrator. What case - law arguments are there? Who should be taken out of the circle, where, in which settlement you might be harmed, who could disturb the particular Fidesz mayor in terms of the fact that there can be no outside committee member anywhere, say, an NAV worker? In that case, I think it's too strict. So they weigh wrong again, they weigh disproportionately again. When there is a need to act with sufficient rigour, for example, in the event of a tightening of the obligation to declare assets or the introduction of compulsory propertyisation investigations, they refuse to tighten or introduce these institutions when there is no reason to act with a Draco rigour, but, contrary to common sense, they do so. [[11.40]] One of the old cancers of the practical application of the local government law is the conflict of interest rule for media content providers. They touch this, but quite unlucky and again unregulated, in such a way that this will cause serious problems in the application of practical law. Why? Because the old text is now omitted from the very important, as well as, one of the important connecting words referring to economic activity, and from now on, a natural person, legal person, principal body of a company, member of management, personal contributor or representative will be incompatible with the office of representatives. Although the media content provider is not defined here, we could say that this is in the relevant law. Yeah, let's just see what CLXXXV 2010 says about that. law, it's about media services and mass communication. The concept of media content provider is rather rough and does not give any orientation, this law states with a noble simplicity that the media service provider or any media content provider is a media content provider. Technically, they explain a concept with the same thing, they don't give you any orientation. Again, this will cause problems in practical application. May I remind you that it is not uncommon for a media content provider to name it a little more precisely, translate it into Hungarian? , say, an editor-in-chief working at a local newspaper or a municipal or urban television, a senior or non-leading person, or, where appropriate, a representative of a person in this circle who is difficult to identify and is a problem which cannot be solved by a clear application of law, because he has acquired local visibility, a high profile, either because he is an editor or because he works at a television; it will not be easy to judge whether his position with a given media content provider is a conflict of interest or does not fall within the sphere of conflict of interest. Here, they want to solve or clarify an important problem, but they fail, because the law that may be invoked or returned to the application of the law also does not provide adequate help and orientation because of the definition of an inaccurate concept, a cliché and a rough concept. The lawsuits relating to the mayor's office are transferred from the jurisdiction of the court itself to the labour court. This may even have a speciality, a specificity, which makes it much more exciting, and this was also affected by the MSZP lead speaker, who would like to achieve a rather naughty, hidden salary increase with the mayor's colleagues. On the other hand, it would be worth considering the salaries of small town mayors. I know that there is a Member among you who has already chosen this and has the will of the mayors of the smallest settlements, because the salary of these mayors has been reduced to such an extent that it is practically close to the salary of a public worker or a minimum wage. If we maintain this system, it is not that it is not certain, but that it is certain that the most suitable people will not start, because for such a low salary as that which can now be received as a full-time mayor in the smallest settlements, they will not leave, because they are literally unable to make a living, and a small town mayor often puts a much greater burden on his shoulders than the mayor of the larger settlement. The mayor of the larger settlement can be helped by an appropriate apparatus, the mayor of a small settlement must literally babysit, patronize his settlements, hold the people's hands in every tiny thing, which would not otherwise fall under the authority of the mayor, they must be helped. Therefore, it may require a non-excessive but decent remuneration. I know it's always a delicate subject. So when we talk about the pay and remuneration of political actors, in the last 25 years, the politics and the majority of politicians have been so discredited that the knife will open up in people's pockets immediately, that if we talk about any increase in wages or fees, but in the case of mayors of small settlements, municipalities over 1500 or 1000 people, or perhaps even up to 2,000 people, I say that there is reason to think about this. Let's get quality people in the system. Let us not keep away suitable mayor candidates and elected mayors, because we dare to give them a very low salary, 70-80 thousand forints of salaries, because those who do not provide it 8 hours a day are the other important issue. This is not a day's 8-hour job, especially in a remote settlement, but it could be 10-12 hours a day, or even 14 hours a day, so they deserve a normal, decent remuneration. Instead, what do you do? Perhaps it is worth experimenting with employers' rights instead of full-time mayors. Is it not a problem that this is a public service relationship under which you are entitled to a pension, trying to resolve the issue of basic and supplementary leave, but that will result in a rather indecent and totally inaccurate, absolutely unpredictable application of law? I quote, you can literally give the mayor a six-month reward in recognition of the work of the board during a specified period. What specific period? Two weeks? Three hours? Four days? A month? Two months? Calendar year? Or it should be determined precisely, because where there may still be funds in the register, it is quite often possible to grant six-month rewards. Of course, in most places, the budgetary situation solves it, because if it deserves it, if it doesn't deserve it, there won't be anything to give it. However, where local tax revenues might allow, a mayor with a relatively lower salary will be able to be paid in this way. This should be considered and clarified more carefully because, in such an important norm text, the terms of the term, which are such at a specific time, are not worthy and significantly impair the professional quality of legislative proposals which are already bleeding from several wounds, and, moreover, are so sensitive issues which should not have been put into the text in such a way. At the end, I left an interesting question, which is the 19th. The question of conflicts of interest between government administrators. Thanks to the good God, in my own constituency, such a very exciting problem arose, when the government administrator working at one of the district government offices became the highest-ranking municipal representative elected with a number of votes above 600. He started as a candidate for mayor in a given settlement, without 40 votes he beat the mayor of Fidesz, who was considered to be more likely, almost one of the biggest surprises, a settlement in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, without 40 votes he did not become mayor after all, but he became an elected representative with the highest number of votes, and now the dilemma is whether his office is incompatible or not. By the way, it did not exercise any decisive powers, so it really does not make any sense, there is no legal and professional justification for declaring such a person incompatible. However, I very much welcome this rule. So I would be very happy if this would go through so that government administrators would not be subject to this. It is absolutely without prejudice to the independence and impartiality of their work in the district office or in any other body, since their duties are far more limited than those of a government official with decisive powers. Otherwise, in this particular case, a valuable representative, who is popular in a given settlement, with a very high number of votes, would be eliminated from the possibility and entitlement to represent his constituents for the next five years. I very much hope that at least these more digestible and valuable parts will pass. I really hope that rule isn't taken out otherwise. For once, it is a rule that has been misconceptioned so far, that is exceptionally well thought and that they want to change it in a positive direction. At the same time, I must say that, if these terrible contradictions are not resolved, the many rags and inaccurate wordings will not be settled either with regard to the rules of conflict of interest for media content providers or with regard to the regulation of the Minister's Commissioner, we will not be able to support this proposal overall. There is still much to discuss, and many amendments need to be adopted by you in order to be acceptable to us as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-46	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask the factions who haven't taken the lead speakership to see if they want to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] No. In this case, we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. Two-minute speeches are possible if you want to take advantage of them. [[There's no candidate.]] There's no sign of that. In this case, the speakers announced in advance will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dezső, MSZP. You have up to 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, You have already heard the overall criticism of the amendment package from my Socialist fellow Member. However, I cannot ignore the fact that this bill is once again an eloquent example of Fidesz political and legislative arrogance and lack of need. The mere fact that the proposal is mainly aimed at technical and uninteresting changes points to the fact that, in addition to the rapid pace of legislative action, legal coherence has often been abandoned, with consequences such as this bill. [[11.50]] This proposal is also a follow-up to the rush of legislative fever, because if, for example, when the law on public service officials had failed to establish legal consistency, it would have taken place at least at the time of subsequent amendments to the legal system transfer of new concepts. It is unfortunate that the otherwise appropriate conflict of interest rules relating to the occupation of local self-government and minority self-government positions were established not long before the election on 12 October. Think about how much more fairer it would have been for those who wanted to run and plan for these elections to do so, knowing that they knew what conflict of interest rules apply to them, not in hindsight, and later to regulate it, and possibly to put someone in an impossible position, as some of my fellow Members have already mentioned here. Not only is it not elegant, but I think that they have chosen a particularly unfair solution if they have done this consciously. It's more than unfortunate what the mayor and the deputy mayor have done in connection with their employment relationship. The feeling is that you can only concentrate on acquiring power, and that is why the two-thirds legislative cylinder works. They believe that the law is what you think it is, and that the legislative shortcomings can be covered by misrepresentation. Well, that didn't work this time. I mean, the misproduction, because the error is yelling. They caused the situation that the mayors and sub-Mayors couldn't resolve their labour law right now. If the newly elected mayor is the mayor, the bill is the 25th. Does Section 5 only apply to provisions with favourable content? By the way, very well? So, what will be the rules of disciplinary or financial compensation? The ones that are now in the Civil Service Act? How will they be applied to them? The repeal of the law on the status of mayors was a failed legislative step and, as a result, this law is clearly no longer applicable to new mayors, so there is still a great deal of regulatory holes. We don't know what will happen to future mayors' severance pay, disciplinary and compensation responsibilities, the transfer of the mayor's duties and powers at the end of the term. Now the bill is taking over almost literally the provisions of the previous legislative law that you have removed. That took three years? A change in the rule that proceedings for the termination of the mayor's office from the court to the administrative and labour court should be considered. The proposal does not help, because we have learned nothing from the reasons for the change, not to mention that we are only aware of a few of these specific practical court cases, so without being a matter of established case-law, there will be a change without justification. If the administrative and labour courts act in the first instance, the court is the second instance, but in the present case these cases are carried out on the judgeboard, because after the decision of the court, the judgment panel was the second instance. It is not true that the assessment of the mayor's multiple violations and omissions is primarily a matter of labour law. Here there are complex, primarily constitutional issues, and there is no harm in deciding on the mayor's case as far away from political battles as possible; if there is any such place in today's Hungary at all. In my opinion, it would be appropriate to establish the jurisdiction of the court and the court board. Dear Secretary of State, A significantly greater mistake is that this law cannot come into force on the day following the announcement because it was spoiled by the 27th. Paragraph 2 of this Article. It is envisaged that some of the rules will enter into force next year and the others will enter into force after the announcement if the 27th regime governing the whole of the application of the rules will enter into force. § would not enter into force next year. I think that this should or should be amended, although the Secretary of State is not listening [[Dr. Répássy is talking to Róbert Balla György.]] Paragraph 1. It is envisaged that some of the rules will enter into force next year and the others will enter into force after the announcement if the 27th regime governing the whole of the application of the rules will enter into force. § would not enter into force next year. I think that this should or should be amended, although the Secretary of State is not listening (Dr. Róbert Répássy is talking to György Balla). I'm sure you've got more important things to do. The Ministry responsible for legislation from the department responsible for codification...? I think it's a completely unusual mistake. Or there's no such department anymore, it's already been outsourced to my friends' law offices for a serious tens or hundreds of millions. It is less spectacular than the one mentioned above, but it is worth a few sentences on the issue of overregulation. I am talking about rules on conflicts of interest for representatives and officials of nationality. Maybe the Justice Department doesn't know that the only official they've elected to represent is an official? Because it would be enough to lay down rules on conflicts of interest for Members, as it also applies to officials. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, You're proclaiming that you're doing better. In light of what you've said, you guys are rather poor. Finally, I would like to ask you to leave the municipalities alone in relation to the legislative proposals submitted and to let them work. It is enough to cope with the current situation, with the withdrawal of funds, with the roaring deterioration of the social situation of the population, as we have seen in the submitted budget for next year. We ask for decent work rather than the destruction of local governments, and it is not enough to ask you to do so. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-11-48	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have concerns about certain sections of the law, which we have concerns about, as we have learned from the municipal election, where Fidesz-KDNP did not win, and at each mayor's office you immediately attacked these elections for some reason, and tried to make impossible, even now, before they started their work, the mayors who didn't start in your colours. That is why, in our opinion, we are concerned about the provision on the disciplinary offenses of the mayors, as they negotiate and try to get them to accept it here. This says that the mayor is committing a disciplinary offence if he violates the duty arising out of his office in a guilty manner. What it means to break it guiltyly is a rubber rule again, which the body of representatives can say about various things, that the mayor here is guilty of violating his obligation, that we should do it against him, that we should initiate a procedure against him. If the mayor is found guilty of this misconduct, he may receive the following punishments:. The mayor may be subject to disciplinary penalties: reprimand or reduce the mayor's fee or fee by up to 20 percent. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So the mayor doesn't get a high-level sentence, and they describe in detail how a disciplinary action against the mayor can be initiated. So it starts with the body of representatives... [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: This has been the case.]] Let me get this straight, Mr. Secretary. The body of representatives may order that the member of the body of representatives, its committee and the head of the metropolitan and county government office be entitled to take the initiative of disciplinary action. It's okay. Then they say that the disciplinary procedure should be subject to an investigation, which should be entrusted to a committee of three members of the body of representatives. Let's take an example. I'm sure it won't be like this, but let's say there's a better mayor with two thirds of Ózdon, but there's an 8-fidesz congressman on the council, and the Fidesz MEPs think they're gonna vote for a disciplinary review because that's what this mayor did. They'll even be nice, because the three-member board has two Fidesz members and, say, they're gonna put in an opposition representative and we're gonna start the investigation. Now comes the very important things about what happens in such an investigation. The committee of inquiry shall conduct the investigation within 30 days of its mandate; once 30 days. Then the committee of inquiry shall draw up its report within 8 days of the end of the investigation; 38 days. The chairman of the committee of inquiry shall draw up his report and convene the body of representatives within 15 days, together with the report; it shall now be 53 days. On the basis of the report, the body of representatives shall make a substantive decision on the mayor's disciplinary matter at a meeting convened by the chairman of the committee of inquiry, but not later than eight days thereafter; we are now 60 days, roughly two months. And then the point is...? So it's two months, but before that, the mayor can make excuses, which will go roughly two more weeks to the various arbitration committees. [[12.00]] And here's the thing: the mayor's office can be suspended during disciplinary proceedings. Gentlemen. You say with this sentence that you can suspend the suspension, the mayor may initiate proceedings in the administrative and labour court within eight days against the suspensive decision. This is again within eight days, while he has to make a decision, it is also about three weeks. For three months, in connection with a misdemeanor whose sentence, as I said, could be a reprimand or a 20-percent pay loss, you have disabled a mayor who is not in your colors for three months? 'Cause that means it can be done. And when the three months are up, they wait, say, a week, and then they suspend the same mayor for three months, and he's not gonna work again? When you're either gonna be found guilty or not, because you might be acquitted, but you're gonna remember something again, and in a week's time, you're gonna be prosecuted again, and then you're gonna be suspended again. Gentlemen. I think it's just that once again, where people do not choose the mayor in the colors of Fidesz-KDNP, they can expect nothing good, because you either withdraw all benefits, all discounts, or you do everything to make it impossible for the locality, the city to function, because it doesn't matter to you that a city works, but whether it is in your colors or not. So the Jobbik Hungary Movement does not agree with this amendment at all, and in this connection we will also present an amendment, which will initiate... By the way, I think we can agree, Mr Secretary, that in Hungary, until any body definitively establishes any offence or any crime against someone, whether or not they have committed, there should be a presumption of innocence. I think the same goes for the mayors. So until you can prove that you've committed a misdemeanor in connection with a mayor, you shouldn't be suspended for, say, three months from your job, because that could mean that you can't go to your office for three months, and you can't do any business for the city. So we are going to make a proposal for an amendment, and I ask you to accept the proposal in order that this does not happen. If you really did not want this to happen, indeed you do not want to make it impossible for the mayors who are not Fidesz-KDNP, then, of course, you will probably support our amendment so that such a case does not occur. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-50	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State whether he wishes to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] The Secretary of State says yes. Mr. Secretary of State Répássy has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to respond to the last comment. Of course, I will look at the rules of the previous disciplinary procedure point by point, but nothing new, Congressman Szilágyi, the mayors... [[Intercoms.]] Disciplinary, I might add, disciplinary action against the mayors is not a novelty, it has already been included in the municipal law or in the law on the status of mayors, but I will see if there is any change here. As far as I know, there is no change in the content of this procedure, which you listed here, so the disciplinary action against the mayor has existed so far, and the mayor has been suspended from office so far. By the way, there have been a number of disputes. I remember that there have been such tensions between the mayor and the board in Pest County or other counties. Each case is ultimately decided by the court, and obviously, if the court considers disciplinary action to be justified, it will uphold this procedure if it does not, and it will return the mayor to his office. So the legal opportunity you are challenging is nothing new, and I would like to stress that it is not new; what is new is that you have a mayor behind Ozdon who is not a majority of the board. This is the only novelty, otherwise there is nothing new in the local government sector in the disciplinary process. I would like to say to my fellow Members that the rules on conflicts of interest do not change substantially. So, when you look at conflict of interest rules in this bill, I would like to point out that, by the way, these conflict of interest rules have been the same in the case of status issues relating to former mayors and sub-Mayors. These are, at most, clarifications in the bill that has just been tabled. The fact that the bill was expanded after social consultation or social debate, I take it not as a criticism, but as a praise. So what else would be the purpose of such a legislative preparation if not to draw attention to the fact that the law-applicationers or perhaps social organisations draw attention to the fact that the bill, the original proposal, does not cover all the details and needs to be extended to further questions? I think we can agree that this is more of a virtue of a legislative process than a shortcoming or critique. Dear House, We will examine all your points in substance, and, of course, if you make any amendments, we will also take a thorough view of them. I hope that this can be discussed point by point in the detailed debate to be held before the committees on their objections to the bill. As I have indicated, the bill is basically an extenuating rule or proposal to replace legal gaps, so it does not mean a revolutionary new regulation that is included in this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws on judicial and private law matters until closure. The submission was made in T/1929. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2014-11-11-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amending certain laws relating to judicial and private law contains amendments to 11 laws, which include a number of major measures and provisions, in addition to a minor clarification of some legislation. Allow me to introduce you to these. First of all, I must mention the regulations necessary for the application of two European Union regulations in Hungary, which form part of the bill before you, which strengthens the functioning and development of the Single European Judicial Area. The bill provides for the application in Hungary of two EU regulations, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, the so-called new Brussels I Regulation and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil and commercial matters, with the necessary amendments. The revised new Brussels I Regulation, which replaces the old Brussels I Regulation in the European Union as of 10 January 2015, is a fundamental source of law for EU judicial cooperation in civil matters. With the exception of some types of cases, the Regulation regulates in general and in a uniform manner the procedure in which a court of a Member State may be brought in civil matters and ensures the recognition and enforcement of judgments given by a court of that Member State in other Member States. The recast regulation aims at facilitating the enforcement of cross-border civil commercial needs and simplifying them compared to previous legislation. To this end, the most important achievement of the new regulation is to abolish the so-called exequatur procedure for exequatur. [[12.10]] This procedure, based on the old Brussels I mechanism, is an intermediate procedure traditionally used for the enforcement of foreign decisions, in which the court of the State of enforcement examines whether the legal conditions laid down for the recognition and enforcement of the decision in the case in question are in place or whether the reasons for the refusal of recognition and enforcement are not present. As a result, the enforceability of that decision in that State has been established. It was only then that the decision was actually implemented. Under the new Brussels I Regulation, it is no longer necessary to carry out this old interim procedure, so that a decision adopted in one Member State which can be enforced there will be enforceable in the other Member States by allowing the debtor to continue to ask for a refusal of enforcement with reference to the reasons previously called for in the exequatur procedure, but only in the implementation phase itself. This will, above all, speed up the cross-border enforcement of decisions. The new Brussels I regulation partly sets out new rules, partly retains the previous rules and complements them. To this end, the bill amends certain provisions of the law on judicial enforcement. Regulation (EU) No 606/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters is an integral part of the European Union's numerous measures to achieve a common area of justice without internal borders, including to enhance judicial cooperation in cross-border civil matters. This is a particularly important measure, ladies and gentlemen, as this will enable citizens of the Union to benefit from rapid, effective, wider protection of those whose lives, physical or psychological integrity, personal freedom, security or sexual integrity are at risk. The main objective of the Regulation is to protect a person who, without a separate procedure being carried out in any Member State of the European Union, is to travel to another Member State under the protection measure imposed in his own Member State. The application of the Regulation will contribute to extending the scope of administrative and judicial decisions to prevent, inter alia, any form of gender-based violence or violence between close contacts, such as physical violence, harassment, sexual abuse, follow-up, intimidation and other forms of indirect coercion. In the Hungarian legal system, the protective measure under the regulation can be ordered by the police in administrative authority, in urgent cases for a maximum period of 72 hours, as well as the legal institution of preventive detention which can be ordered by the court. Among other things, the bill lays down the necessary provisions for the domestic application of that regulation. In the framework of this, on one side, it provides rules to assist the implementation of the regulation in respect of Hungarian citizens who, based on the protection measure ordered by the Hungarian police authority or by a court, seek protection from the Hungarian decision in accordance with the preventive detention obligation abroad. As of January next year, both the police department and the court will issue a so-called protection certificate, with which they can apply for protection in other EU Member States. In order to facilitate cross-border enforcement of victims of abuse, the bill states that the determining bodies should also inform those concerned of the possibility and conditions of issuing the certificate. On the other hand, there was a need for new special procedural rules, which include provisions on the handling of cases initiated by persons wishing to enforce protection measures in another Member State, other than the domestic universal rules governing preventive distance. In addition, according to the personal scope of the regulation, the scope of the right holders had to be extended to a wider range of legal entities in cases where the Hungarian authority should act in order to recognise and implement the protection measure imposed in another Member State, given that in some Member States the measure which can be considered to be compatible with the temporary prevention and prevention of detention in Hungary may not be applied only in relation to relatives. The bill amends accordingly the restraining law on domestic violence and the levy law. The former contains provisions relating to judicial proceedings initiated by applicants for protection in Hungary with the issue of the protection certificate referred to above at home or with the possession of the protection measure and the certificate issued on the basis of it in another EU Member State. [[Mr. Schmuck replaced Ms. Erzsébet in the notary seat as Loránt Hegedűs.]] The latter amendment also complies with the legal aid requirement for the issuing of certificates under the Regulation and the procedures for the recognition and enforcement in Hungary of certificates issued in another Member State. Dear House, Following the presentation of proposals for legislative amendments resulting from our EU obligation, I would like to ask you to allow me to present the provisions of the bill which also amend the law on judicial enforcement. The amendment of the law on judicial enforcement is not just due to our already mentioned EU obligations with this bill. The work of the bailiffs has been criticised by a number of people seeking enforcement and debtors alike. In recent years, the Ministry of Justice has closely monitored the activities of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court, including the supervision of the operation of independent judicial executives. The main framework for implementation has been essentially permanent for 20 years, with 198 independent judicial executives performing public tasks as a final act of justice. The implementation targets 98,8 percent of the claims for money, while the remaining 1.2 percent represents the execution of a specific act. Over the last ten years, the number of execution sites has remained virtually unchanged, with 198 currently appointed independent bailiffs operating in the country. However, the number of enforcement cases has tripled over the last ten years, from 200,000 cases a year to 600,000 cases. The main reason for this is, on the one hand, the sad consequence of irresponsible foreign exchange lending and, on the other hand, the increase in the number of companies that went bankrupt and previously took out loans due to the economic crisis. Furthermore, the launch of the notary electronic order for payment system as of 2011, which significantly facilitated the mass and rapid launch of executions by utility and telecommunications operators, should not be forgotten among the reasons for the growth of cases. However, despite the fact that the average case value of an enforcement case has doubled over the last ten years, it has increased from HUF 550 thousand to HUF 1 million 100 thousand, the financial effectiveness of the executives has decreased. The functioning of the enforcement body has been strongly opposed by the public on both the side of enforcement seekers and debtors. In recent years, the Chamber has not acted sufficiently effectively to ensure the proper functioning of the implementing body and to strengthen public confidence. The debtors no longer feel obliged to implement the civil discipline associated with the execution of judgments due to the poor supervision of the Chamber. Today, in public opinion, there is a greater emphasis on rejection of enforcement irregularities than on enforcement being part of the judicial system, the exercise of public authority. Supervising enforcement has been and will be exercised by the Minister of Justice. Under the current regime, most of the professional supervisory rights over executives have been transferred by the State to the Chamber. The government has now found it necessary to strengthen public supervision of the Chamber and the executive body, thereby strengthening public confidence in implementation. [[12.20]] Therefore, the proposal strengthens the supervision of the Minister of Justice over the independent judicial executives and the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court by entering into force on the day following the publication of the amendment. One of the first steps in strengthening professional supervision and public confidence is the legislative creation of the possibility for the Minister to decide on the secondment of a ministerial commissioner to the Chamber. The secondment of the Ministerial Commissioner will allow implementation procedures to take place at the highest possible level of professionalism, while ensuring that the rules of public trust are strictly respected, pending the introduction of changed supervisory rules. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: And directed.]] The Ministerial Commissioner will also be responsible for the full screening of the administration and management of the Chamber, which will provide the Minister with the opportunity to get a full picture of the quality of the public tasks carried out by the Chamber so far and of the management of the Chamber on the basis of a report by the Minister. Based on the operation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is possible to decide whether to further strengthen the supervision of certain public tasks carried out by the Chamber or to transfer them to a public body. It is proposed that the supervisory task of supervising the professional work of executives and handling complaints against the executioner will be transferred as a public mission to the Justice Office supervised by the Minister of Justice as of 1 March 2015. Detailed rules for examining the functioning of executives will be laid down by the Government by a regulation and the rules for the supervision of complaints will be governed by the Minister of Justice. The law on judicial enforcement has already provided the Chamber with the resources to carry out the public tasks of the State through the payment of a general implementation fee. The flat rate shall be paid by the executive to the Chamber, which shall be part of the implementation fee. The transfer of supervisory tasks to the Justice Office as a source of public tasks will result in a 50-50 share of a flat rate for the performance of public tasks. It is proposed to prepare for the tasks to be carried out so that the division should be carried out by the Chamber as soon as it enters into force in order to enable the Judicial Office to properly prepare itself to carry out the tasks starting in March. The public body status of the Chamber remains unchanged, as part of the public tasks relating to the implementing organisation system remains with the Chamber. In order to strengthen the professional relationship between the public body of the Chamber serving as a public service and the Minister of Justice supervising the implementation, the President-elect of the Chamber Presidency will be approved in the future by the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Implementation has been and will continue to be a state task. Implementation is part of the process of justice, its closing stone. Therefore, the needs for nationalisation of public implementation tasks do not have a basis, but it is appropriate to subject the provision of public tasks to closer supervision, which is now being done by the government. This is the first step in the process of reviewing the legal environment governing implementation and the implementation organisation system, the next step of which will be the setting up of a working group, which will review the rules and propose further intervention on the basis of previous and recent experience. The bill also includes provisions amending the processing of data relating to the request for access to the electronic delivery system available for judicial enforcement, with the aim of making data processing more transparent and making the application easier. Dear Parliament, In addition to the above, the bill includes amendments to several laws on judicial and private law matters. Allow me to make a brief comment on these, too. The amendment to certain provisions of the Act on the judicial register of civil society organisations and the related procedural rules is justified by the possibility of electronic administration in civil society organisations proceedings from 1 January 2015 and, in specific cases, mandatory. However, the changeover takes place in several stages, first and fully in the contacts between courts and clients, and gradually in most of the daily work of the record-keeping courts. The amendment of the Civil Procedure Act aims to establish the necessary transitional rules and to meet the needs arising in practice. The content of the public register of civil society organisations will be expanded by a number of data to facilitate information on organisations when the bill is adopted. Some of the provisions of the Law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings are also amended and clarified in the context of electronic procedures. The amendments concern the payment of fees and publications in electronic procedures and relate to online electronic sales in winding-up proceedings in 2015. In the law on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development, the bill amends and complements the interpretation provision with the law firm. The reason for the amendment is that the law firm is also a social enterprise organisation. In addition, in line with the interim legislative changes, the text of the law includes the self-employed and the individual company instead of the individual enterprise. In addition to what has already been mentioned, the bill also concerns the regulation of the public foundation as a type of organisation. The public foundations were set up by the Parliament, the government and the representative body of the local government or minority self-government to ensure the continuous fulfilment of public tasks. In 2006, the legislator removed the possibility of establishing a public foundation, but the previously created public foundations still exist to this day in order to carry out the public tasks defined by the founders. Public foundations were removed from the scope of the Civil Law in 2014, but the bill allows public foundations to continue to acquire public benefit status and also to apply civil society law rules to public foundations. Finally, the proposal also amends the law on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. The amendment is two-way. On the one hand, by supplementing the law, the newly independent village Balatonakaratty will be represented in the jurisdiction of the Veszprém District Court. On the other hand, the municipalities of Lócs and Iklanberény are transferred from the jurisdiction of the Sárvár District Court to the jurisdiction of the Kőszeg District Court for geographical, transport and administrative reasons. This amendment does not affect the workload, turnover or timeliness of the courts, but at the same time satisfies the needs of the population and facilitates its administration. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, As regards a number of provisions of the bill described above, it is necessary to adopt the proposal as soon as possible, as it is in the interests of citizens. I therefore recommend the bill to the attention of honourable Members, asking for their support. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-11-54	Thank you very much for Mr. Secretary of State's exposé. Here are the speeches from its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, There is no point in creating and operating a legal system if we cannot ensure that the law is enforced, the judgments cannot be enforced. By constructing the institution of judicial enforcement, the legislator seeks to solve one of the most important tasks of the State under a legally regulated procedure, which is to ensure legal protection and justice. Enforcement plays a particularly important role in enforcing the law, in the functioning of the legal order. In the light of what has been said, it is reasonable that the text before us, T/1929, should be drawn up. We are already discussing the bill amending certain laws relating to judicial and private law with the possibility of derogating from the house rules. [[12.30]] If public confidence on enforcement procedures is shaken, sooner or later it will undermine the belief in the rule of law, which we must stop as soon as possible. According to the Ministry of Justice, investigations into the past weeks have demonstrated that the interests of both the debtor and the applicant for enforcement in Hungary today are seriously impaired in the implementation procedures, the main reason for which is to ignore or, if you like, violate legal provisions. One of the best examples of incorrect law enforcement, which we have been informed of in recent months from the Ministry's announcement, is that the executives are not willing to lift wage bans contrary to the legislation, despite the adoption of the Parliament's bill protecting foreign exchange taxpayers. I believe that it is intolerable that persons armed with the means of ensuring justice should face legislative provisions and commit more or less infringements. Therefore, in agreement with the Government's proposal, I consider it reasonable and eligible to appoint a temporary ministerial commissioner for monitoring implementation, who is actively involved in the investigation of complaints, the development of a disciplinary system, compliance with legality and the conduct of audits. I consider it extremely important that the tasks of the Minister for Foreign Affairs include screening of the implementation system. In time, enforcement procedures must operate legally without a ministerial commissioner. In order for this to happen, legal guarantee principles developed by practice are required. The draft legislation therefore requires the ministerial commissioner to report monthly. It is clear from the bill that, as of 1 March 2015, the Court of Justice will take over the handling of enforcement complaints from the Chamber, which I consider to be extremely forward-looking, and I believe that the requirement for independent assessment will therefore be more effective. In addition to restoring public confidence, it is also important that, if the bill is adopted, the new Brussels I regulation will also apply in our legal system. The aim of the new Brussels I Regulation is to facilitate the enforcement of cross-border civil commercial needs, simplify them compared to previous rules, and mutual recognition of cross-border civil protection measures. To this end, the declaration of enforceability procedure will be terminated as the most important achievement. As a result of the new Brussels I Regulation, decisions taken in the majority of civil and commercial matters in the future which can be enforced in the EU Member State where they are taken will be practically automatic in other Member States without the need for an earlier interim procedure. I would also like to highlight the necessary amendment of individual laws for electronic administration, which clearly points towards the establishment of a modern Hungarian administration. In view of what has been said, I would ask all my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2014-11-11-56	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position within a total of 15 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-57	Mr President, Dear House, Is there a package of proposals in front of us? Don't you think I'm gonna make a big deal out of guessing if I say so? the parts amending the implementation procedure and the system will be the main focus of public attention. I would therefore like to limit myself to this in the first part of our speech as a speaker. For here it was a clear goal in communicating in the press that strengthening public confidence in the enforcement system would be the goal of the government. At the same time, there has been a discussion between us for a good year or two about the level of changes that should be made to the implementation system as a whole. Jobbik did not conceal its position, but my fellow Member Gábor Staudt has been in charge of the subject lately, that the whole implementation system would, where appropriate, be subject to state control, in our view, not in such a derailed way, but at the end of a full flow chart. And over the last few years, we have had other proposals, such as a fair ceiling on the executive commission, the elimination of abuses due to a series of actually consumerist raids, which have been swept down by the government. Although he has always tried to reassure us in closing words that he will come up with a full proposal that will put the whole system in order and eliminate the question marks that have been raised so far in relation to any similar abuse. Not only on national radical portals, but also within the wider media, there are quite simply reports of enforcement abuses. Literally an industry has developed to loot Hungarian people in Hungary. And if that's all the government's action plans on this, then it's the debtors, the victims are in a lot of trouble. After all, Gergely Patyi himself said that the portfolio hopes that the implementation system should not be fundamentally changed, that they do not wish to nationalise the implementation. We would say, however, that a very strict state control, not just a ministerial commissioner, would actually make the system's withdrawal of profit interest available to the state that in Hungary, if a debtor is in trouble, he really only has to pay what he owes. So the already difficult situation should not be exacerbated by different financial criminals who pay and buy claims like fish scows. And let us say that respect for the exception, because a fair and well-functioning enforcement system is indeed necessary in all respects. So when we talked about an eviction moratorium, we also said that, for example, we do not want to support arbitrary homeowners in their activities. It is clear that we want to provide protection for Hungarian citizens who follow the law and live along fair intentions. But the statement that has been made here in the explanatory statement that the state believes that the enforcement system can be effective even in its current form, although there are problems with its operation, is indeed a high school of polish. This is an indiscretion of the incredible abuse that is at the root of this system. In addition to the fact that it has fallen somewhat, let's say, compared to last year, the number of people who do not pay late, let's say, the charges for utility services. However, it remains a problem for millions of companies with different foreign interests to pour an unjustified burden on the Hungarian population, and then, obviously, the owner is entitled to demand compensation for the services that have been used. But the methods used to collect and recover, at least, share public opinion. It is obvious that there is also a series of forms of abuse of a consumer nature that this package does not actually correct before us, tries to sort out, or does not touch at all. That's the main problem. In connection with utility service providers, we have most of the similar comments and problems we have received, where in general we can say that in case of late payment, you can send or send a payment reminder, a notice of termination. The reality is, however, that the debtor does not receive any notification even during the recovery procedure. You will also be informed of the fact of the default only from the debt manager. And we can also see that a few thousand forints of lag can easily climb up to tens of thousands or even hundreds of thousands of forints. However, we should not necessarily act here, as the current legislation now gives us the opportunity, in the event of late payment, to impose on the debtor the very significant additional costs of recovery as a kind of penalty. We also see that as long as you maintain the condition that different providers can change the principles of their contracts on a weekly or monthly basis, in addition to having a very ventilating information obligation, but nothing else, these abuses will regenerate themselves. After all, in many cases, the service providers simply do not inform their customers of the changes that they have made and have made unilaterally, even under the standard terms of the contract. There is, of course, a telecommunications service provider that even texts us about this, we always highlight positive examples, but unfortunately this is not the case at systemic level. [[12.40]] And it is also a huge problem if the service provider indicates, on the back of an account, a claim, a cancellation, then within 15 days he has the opportunity to make various statements to the debtor. If you do not do this because you cannot do it, or let's say the service provider's system does not give you the opportunity to do so, you have not sent your possible complaint, so you have been accepted under the current legislation, which I claim to have failed, is the notification of an unjustified debt element. But returning to the transformation of the implementation system: there is still no substantive suggestion as to how these continued abuses, the brutally overbilled costs, will be taken back by putting a ministerial commissioner, who, if any, will have very useful powers, as it can be effective in the transformation of the enforcement system, and if he can only pay attention and make a substantial contribution to the investigation of complaints, the disciplinary system, compliance with legality, it is possible to move forward by such an amendment, but this is very, very far from turning off the consumer protection problems that I have listed from the system, it is very, very far from turning off the system's profit interest from the system where it is located? I'm gonna say it again? an industry specializes in the sometimes illegal, sometimes partly legal, partly illegal looting of Hungarian people. Let us always say that respect for the exception, but unfortunately, at systemic level, this is present in Hungary today, and as long as the government's failed economic policy continues, so as long as transfers are allowed to continue to impose and increase sectoral special taxes, they recreate the basis of the problem, recreate the sea of debtors on which the service providers will cast out the various faces? Can the Hungarian people not afford this in an understandable or partially understandable way? And then the debt managers show up, and as I said, they sell and buy the debts as a market kofa, which swell unduly, and this will be a paradise for different collecting and executing companies. The concept of recovery and enforcement is not clearly separated by public awareness, and it would be good for us to do so. Simply put, the executioner already has the power of banning, including bank accounts, income, booking of movable and immovable property in his toolbox. But we need to see that there is a mass of feedback at systemic level that says that 33 and 50 percent bans are also placed on very minimal income, and that they are also placed on basic income resources to meet the most basic conditions of life, which seriously jeopardise the everyday life and fundamental rights of Hungarian people. That is why I propose to the Government to consider the urgent need to put aside in addition to this system, so that the income needed to survive every day, to obtain the most basic items, cannot be taken away by similar forms of service and enforcement, or at least not so much. Therefore, for every Hungarian citizen who has been in a difficult situation without his own fault, let us ensure that at least his survival is possible until the problem is resolved. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-58	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the other lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman László György Lukács. Congressman, I would like to remind you that you have six minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The main areas of the legislative package in the field of private law before us are, on the one hand, EU compliance and technical amendments and actual but, on the other hand, only apparent amendments. Does it contain a number of rules on EU compliance that, in my view, clearly show that the transposition of EU law and the transposition of related measures? such as a request for action on requests, such as enforcement forms? a controlled substance which is difficult to transpose, too meticulous, and by bringing it in in detail in this way and by amending certain private law laws, constantly generates an uncertainty, and virtually no longer knows which version of Pp. or the related procedural laws is in force or what can be done at all. Perhaps one of the most thought-out options would have been to transpose the Brussels I regulation in such a way that, when the legislation fully touches one of these areas, it integrates the whole procedural right, not through certain measures, such as the refining of the implementation papers now. However, a similar example could be given in this case for protection measures for the prevention of violence between relatives in relation to EU compliance. Well, I'm curious how these defense measures will work in practice, because here the police department will have 12 hours to issue a defence certificate. Anyone who has seen such decisions from a foreign country, with any decision being made, must be a man who understands, on the one hand, and can guarantee the transformation and transformation of this, and, on the other hand, within 12 hours, for example, this otherwise important legal institution will achieve its goal. The other area, which is also intended for simultaneous and thought-out introduction, would be electronic procedures and electronic communications from customers. We also have the same experience that there is a coercion of compliance, that the government wants to bring it in and move on with the times. However, it is so fragmented and fragmented that it is introduced and incorporated into the individual legislation, which is always, so to speak, modified in a salad manner, that it is incomprehensible, on the one hand, to the law-abiding or even to the law-abiding citizens, in which cases it can apply electronic procedures. It's moving fast, and it doesn't have virtually any friendly properties for customers. And, as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát said, the substance of this amendment and of several proposals is indeed a tightening of supervision in relation to executives. We could also agree with tightening up, but we do not agree with the way it is done, because there are very few things in this amendment that are certain, and this uncertainty will also mark the future functioning of the institution. All this time, we have said that there is a need for state reservations and not one such state expansion, how professional supervision, professional supervision through the Minister's Commissioner, or supervision over members through the Justice Office are carried out. I think the interesting thing about the subject is that Jobbik was the only one who said that there were serious problems in this area, and then the government slowly admitted that there were problems. Jobbik was the only one who dared to take on the conflict in these cases, possibly with the executive chamber, but also with the government. And the findings are very simple, and we can deduct that with this tightening up, the Chamber has lost confidence. This is what my fellow Members have been talking about in recent years, that the Chamber has been constantly deceiving trust, and it has proved that there has been a great deal of trouble and a great deal of trouble in the Chamber area, and that the government's mills have been slowly grounded. One thing's for sure, it's not a good solution. We can safely say that, because it may be interesting to say that he mentioned the restructuring plans at the meeting, where he may have attended, as a gangster party in Balatonalmád. Or, for example, will the Minister take part in such a gangster party in the near future, and how will he carry out his supervision? For example, in the past, the government defended that there was no problem in this area and then changed its opinion a little, but it seems that they did not notice in time that there were very serious problems with the quality of executive work and with regard to the social and professional perception of executive work, and these problems, in our view? And that's the Jobbik's unbroken position? fundamental problems that can not be achieved by such a legislative amendment at the level of supervision or by such an amendment, but can be done on the basis of complete public supervision and becoming a state task. Is it easy to learn from the old system? By the way, does it have drawbacks and benefits? What is safe for enforcement procedures and in order for law to prevail in a rule of law is certainly a much more thorough, much more serious and far more radical change. Overall, this can be said about the package of legislative amendments, the technical details of which are obviously acceptable, but I do not think that there will be agreement at this level on the supervision of the executive chamber. In any case, we recommend that the government consider amending this current plan as a specific state task, and that public supervision be achieved not through the Minister's Commissioner, but at a much higher level, with fundamental changes. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-60	Thank you very much. Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP, is now in charge of the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-11-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The proposal is a true salad law, which amends a number of laws for several non-linked legislative purposes. Most of the provisions are for harmonisation purposes, but the most significant change is the withdrawal of powers and part of the executive chamber and the deployment of it to the Justice Office and to the Minister's Commissioner. [[12.50]] Dear Parliament, Before we go into the details of the legislative amendment, I think we need to have a word about the circumstances of the submission and the parliamentary hearing. This is once again a coup d'état, which was tabled last Friday, and even at last Thursday's House Committee meeting, the representative of the government himself did not know or indicated. This, by the way, at the House Committee meeting this Monday, according to the representative of the government, was just a mature and well-developed bill that was nowhere to be found last Thursday. This is all the more interesting, because you have been a two-thirds majority in Parliament and in the government for five years, and for some reason it was extremely important that, apart from house rules, the House negotiates this law in one day. For five years, you have not noticed this, nor have you noticed, in recent weeks or months, since the legislative programme, which the Government and the Minister of Justice have put before Parliament in full awareness and in the best of professional knowledge, has not even been mentioned in this proposal. Now, for some mysterious reason, you have to accept it immediately. Yesterday there was a debate in the House Committee, and I was wondering, because the better Members couldn't speak locally, and the LMP couldn't comment on the sudden question of whether they were supported to derogate from the house rules. Because the representative of the government could not give a reasonable answer as to why it was a problem if Parliament had some time to negotiate this law in substance, or to amend it substantially, whether it was pro-government or opposition proposals, what is the reason why, in one week's time, I would say once again, this area should be reorganized practically as a coup. Neither the Fidesz representative nor the Secretary of State could say that at this meeting. Did you try to reason with such little things? And by the way, in that respect, I'm gonna give it to him because he's at least tried? that their entry into force, because of EU and other rules, or from the perspective of the adaptation of the judicial organisation system, would be much better if there was a week more time. This is a joke! In comparison, ladies and gentlemen, both Jobbik and LMP supported a derogation from house rules, if I have seen it correctly yesterday. We have not supported and I continue to believe that this should not be supported. I am not talking about the bill, but I am talking about the fact that the bill tabled on Friday, which was put on Parliament's agenda at half an hour on Monday, will be closed in about 15-20 or 30 minutes. It is not possible to submit an amendment to it by a representative, and it may be possible to combine it with a Commission amendment. We think this procedure is unacceptable because of the gravity and seriousness of the case. Because if we go into the substance of the law, we can see that it is indeed a salad law, and most of it is of a legal harmonisation nature. Among the proposals for harmonisation of laws, as the Secretary of State said, I will not repeat them all, for example the implementation in Hungary of the Council Regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. The Secretary of State also said that this is a specific provision coming from this damn European Union, and that any Hungarian citizen who has such problems or issues in civil or commercial matters in international terms will make his life easier. This is a very forward-looking provision and, of course, it can be supported; as can the proposal for mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, which will help a very intimate and very brutal private-law relationship from a point of view, I say once again to citizens, that it will extend this protection in a certain international dimension within the European Union. The Secretary of State spoke about this for a long time. A new instrument for combating domestic violence is specifically eligible, so that Hungary can live with it. With free cross-border movement, the states must obviously adapt to this and protect their own citizens and other citizens of the European Union in these otherwise horrific living situations. As far as the substantive part of the bill is concerned with the impact it has on both the political and the current Hungarian society, it is, of course, to reshape the regulation of judicial enforcement. All the more so, as the Secretary of State said, because of foreign exchange lending, families and people meet with this legislation in their most vulnerable situation. These encounters in recent years, as many opposition groups in Parliament have indeed consistently and forcefully drawn attention to this, can be called anything but cultural, balanced and for the sake of the people. Once again, in a situation where, in the midst of the global economic crisis and the crisis in foreign currency lending, tens of thousands of families are affected by this problem. Therefore, due care must be taken to find a real good solution. This is our position, and many may not like it, but unfortunately, time usually justifies us. The current system of implementation, whether we look at the person asking for implementation or the sufferer, has been said by everyone, is chaotic and abusive. The solution is our proposal, in our view, to formulate and enforce transparency, publicity, auditability and clear procedural rules. This current proposal, which is on the table, may get a little caught up in one or the other of these, but the fact that it is not comprehensively settling this area is absolutely certain. Once again, you are bringing extraordinary instruments as the main rule. Involvement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this area, my honourable fellow Member, is an extraordinary temporary solution due to its name; even if it is the task of preparing an area, even if it is the task of solving a problem and solving it in a manner of intervention. It is a temporary solution, not only here and everywhere else, but also the appointment of a ministerial commissioner. Of course, if it's too bad, they can send a minister's commissioner there, it's great. Then that means it's already very bad. The Minister's Commissioner is going there, trying to find out something, scouting it, checking it out, calling it in, impeaching it. Will he leave the room? What will happen next, fellow Members? How is that a systemic solution, in your opinion? It doesn't answer whether the government and Fidesz think the bar system is good or not. My good-looking fellow Member said that differently, but they should answer that sooner or later. They should answer what you believe in conceptually in this regard. That this is a state task? Because what we're seeing now is that a mule solution is added to the otherwise independent executive activity, which is not now a state task. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Yes!]] But we don't see how conceptually this is going to end. You want him to go into state hands for good? Then it's not the law! You want him to remain his chamber and independent bailiffs for good? so to speak as a private activity? This isn't the end of the law! Do you think that, as part of the justice system, justice itself is responsible for the execution of judicial judgments and that this task will be handed over to the independent judicial administration along with responsibility? It's not the law! This law at the moment, once again, is a mule solution that, not only would clarify relations, but also enhance confusion and intransparency in this area. It does not rule out corruption, but increases its risk in our view. What we see today is that a ministerial commissioner of the Orbán government will be entrusted with the exclusion of order and corruption. Believe us, opposition representatives, but I think that now, for the majority of voters, this means the most for the goat the cabbage category, and it does not guarantee that corruption will be ruled out. There is no guarantee that the area will otherwise be fixed in a country where the President of the NAV and the members of the government continue to do what you have been doing in the last few weeks, for example, in this corruption-suspect case. Then the appointment of a ministerial commissioner, believe me, is not a guarantee for anyone that they will act against corruption or that they will put order in the area. In this previous case, members of the government, or the highest state official in charge of tax implementation, are constantly disbursing, and can even be declared calmly, one after another in a lie. [[13.00]] The solution does not reassure anyone what you have put on the table in Parliament. What seems a bit more systematic is that you are installing part of the powers and part of the supervision and control of the Justice Department. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Here again, I would like to return to the fact that we have one day to talk about this law, and you have made a provision in this law, an authorization clause that the government will regulate in a regulation how and how. That's the point. You just need to see how the Justice Department is gonna do that. New classes? The little ladies in the current administration are gonna get this job, and they're gonna be chasing the bailiffs? Or will there be a new headcount development with new classes; will it appear as a new task at national and local level? When do you get up? When will we see the enforcement order? In a normal country, along with the law, the government is used to put the enforcement order in favour of Parliament to see and understand exactly what it will decide. When you are a very serious audit of disciplinary, professional and financial matters to the staff of the Justice Office, if you will give them supervisory powers, you should see them. If government and parliamentary work were taken seriously, this would be part of this proposal. And speaking of the role of Parliament, I have really said it honestly in the House Committee, and I am also very honest here: such laws cannot be adopted in one day. And that's what you feel the most about your skin now...? I mean, if they don't consider themselves voting machines. Look at what happened to this Internet transmitter. In a week's time in the Hungarian Parliament, your Prime Minister and his party president retreated, and here you pressed a different button today than a week ago, what you were told. I think there should be so much self-esteem and self-respect in the Fidesz fraction and the KDNP fraction, especially since the vast majority of individual members of your group are so demanding that you do not allow them to put a law down their throats in one day. Because there's been a lot of laws lately? the Internet is just one of them? he demonstrated that what the government is putting before you or bringing to Parliament in such a coup, the vast majority of which, by the way, are either technical or substantive. And in the end, you're gonna go out on the street and explain to your own constituents why this happened, by the way. Is that why I'm suggesting it to us? And I'm not talking to the government here, is it his job to prepare the bill one way or another, I would specifically like to say it to my fellow members of the government? The fact that this haste is not worth it is not worth the coup-like adoption of the law. In the days we will be discussing and voting again on the Code of Correction, which we will amend again in hundreds of pages before the entry into force, because we still had to accept it very quickly, and it turned out that half of it was wrong as it is. This bill is actually a salad law. It's all from the angle to the plane. Is there an amendment to the electoral law here, and also an amendment to the law on the names of courts; an amendment to the district court jurisdiction of the municipalities of Iklanberény and Lócs? Just like the Secretary of State drew attention to it? amending the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. To sum up: this is a hasty, unconventional ideation, a coup d'état of the executive area, which in this form certainly does not guarantee what people otherwise desire. A transparent, fair implementation, abuse and clean-up of crime in this area is what the enforcement seekers expect, and that is what they expect, and especially the many tens and hundreds of thousands of unfortunate, vulnerable people who are forced to participate in these legal transactions, either as a party to foreign exchange credit or in other cases. In our view, this bill will not be suitable in this form. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-11-62	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group, in a two-minute timeframe.
u2014-11-11-63	Mr President, Dear House, In this very important and highlighted subject, I find it quite amazing that neither the KDNP nor the LMP wish to share their important ideas with the public. This is Parliament's slap in the face. Not only because in such a short period of time they try to squeeze through this proposal, this salad, but also because whole factions take the liberty of not speaking to it to the slightest extent and not sharing their views with the public. It is a very, very important point that the crisis in foreign exchange lending has been mentioned, and that many Hungarians have not necessarily and have not only lost their homes, apartments, property because of the abuse of the culprit financial institutions and banks, but in many cases, either the parallel implementations or the execution situations arising from parallel debts have led to the unsatisfaction of a family's life. Where appropriate, the property, the only property lost, and then Social Services showed up, ripped the family apart, so amazing social processes started. Now, with the appointment of a commissioner, the government is planning something. The question therefore arises as to how they intend, where appropriate, to revise retroactively the amount of abuse related to the foreign exchange credit process, as far as the implementation system is concerned. And if the supervision of complaint handling is, in whole or in part, in the hands of the Commissioner, how will this affect the so-called currency lending problem? We can see here that we are talking in the lower voice about tens of thousands of cases that call for intervention and settlement. I am pleased that there is a secretary of state in this Chamber who is usually involved in the debate. I look forward to and expect your reaction to whether or not credit-damaged families can expect any justice in relation to these processes. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Before that, I'll give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy in two minutes.
u2014-11-11-65	I would just like to say to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát and other Members who took part in the debate that I think there is some misunderstanding about complaint handling and even complaints about executive activity. The so-called enforcement objection will, of course, continue to be judged by the court, so that debtors or enforcement sufferers can continue to basically submit their legal objections to the court and enforce them. The handling of complaints will be supervised by this ministerial Commissioner, but, by the way, complaints themselves will not be assessed by the Minister's Commissioner, so to speak. But let's separate it, so I asked for a brief word to separate the institution of the enforcement objection and the complaint concerning its enforcement activities, which I think has as much importance in solving this whole matter as the proper handling of complaints as the proper handling of enforcement objections.
u2014-11-11-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I am now giving the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame. [[For signal:]] I would like to inform the Member that, according to the house rules, a two-minute speech per faction is possible. So we now have Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-11-67	Mr President, Dear House, I was forced to attempt to respond with a normal comment to what was said earlier, as the rules modified by Fidesz-KDNP do not allow me to react to a two-minute reaction by another two-minute period. This obviously has its advantages from your point of view, and I am not in a position to debate this rule, but it introduces certain kinds of compulsions into the system. I think it is important to make this distinction, which was mentioned by the Secretary of State, but at the same time I have to ask what comes from it. I was sure that the appointed Commissioner would not deal with incoming complaints one by one, but unfortunately, on the basis of the current processes, I am also sure that if there are different procedural and any complaints at systemic level, then I am not necessarily sure that this appointed Commissioner will propose subsequent legislative amendments or forms of intervention. For it is evident that his hand is also bound by this proposal. But to bring the problem closer, what I really want to get answered to, I'll give you an example, and it's not necessarily just an implementation issue, but it could go that far. It's a garbage truck in Székesfehárvár. charged 213 forints of recovery, 13 forints of interest and 2540 forints of administrative fees for a loss of 1679 forints. [[13.10]] In another case, one of the largest auction sites in Hungary was able to charge an administrative fee of HUF 5 thousand on a HUF 560 claim. So it can be seen that even smaller amounts of claims may increase the burden tenfold at the end. Therefore, there must be an answer to how simple Hungarian people who are in trouble with debts of a few thousand forints can be freed from similar processes, so that they can not get into the very ugly end of an implementation phase. On the other hand, the recurring problem of foreign exchange credit damage is that, indeed, when we start from a basic debt of HUF 14-15 million, on the paper that the enforcer has flashed? When we're in the middle of an eviction attempt a few years later? It's not 14-15 anymore, it's 31 million in debt, but it's 25-26 million in systems a lot. When you're trying to assess the costs? not to examine its legitimacy, but to at least know how this debt was accumulated? Then the answers will be canceled. However, when it comes to discussing the same in court, it is not usually possible for the executor to explain why his level of costs has developed in the way that the various costs he charges are justified or not. It can be seen, then, that when we said that there should be a hat on the execution commission, when the costs of the executioner must be explained and there must be some hat or ceiling, we were led to be able to provide solutions for these real examples. A long-term solution in the light of this proposal and it is claimed that only a very increased state control of the implementation system could bring about the exception of the profit expectations that my fellow Member Gábor Staudt has shown on several occasions that these expectations are increasing the system. As long as it can be seen that some executives artificially expand their debt to a level where, at the time of the intervention, they may be able to lay their hands on the property, the problem will certainly regenerate itself and I must repeat: until you and you are willing to raise any barriers to passing on the so-called sectoral special taxes, the circle of debtors will continue to recreate itself. Therefore, it is possible to appoint a Commissioner, to exercise certain supervisory powers, but a systemic change is needed, and therefore I urge the government to intervene without delay, not to use symptomatic treatment, but, in accordance with its earlier promises to fully resolve this problem, to start screening the entire system of implementation. Once again, we are facing an amazing series of consumer problems. The mass of the announcements will obviously reach you, not only in my mailbox, so it would be a dog's duty, because the citizens who have chosen you to intervene do not care about this problem. From now on, unfortunately, this ministerial commissioner will be able to take the fall if something doesn't turn out the way you've calculated, so we're going to push you to a systemic solution. It's not too late. It is clear that it is worth considering at this point, the withdrawal of this salad and the preparation of a decent one, or whether they are able to modify and improve the present time so that at least the minimum standards are met. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-11-69	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, continuing where we left off or left off, I ask you to answer questions, questions that the government must make clear, whether you want to maintain the fully state or the current hybrid hybrid cutting system. I think that somewhere you should vote for the state, which direction you're going. If you can't go on the government's side, leave it to me, the Jobbik knows the answer to that. We know which direction we should go, according to you, according to this hybrid solution, they are very clueless. On the other hand, they had stalled earlier on the executives, but now we have been able to bring forward a bill in this regard at a speed. Whether the sudden trial of the case was so urgent, because the quick process involves a quick seal, a quick deal, and perhaps the subject of the deal is whether the Commissioner himself, as such, could stand up or whether the split of the money, the maintenance costs, or the other costs, or the split of the proceeds, motivated the state, or whether any deal was made with the Chamber. On the other hand, it seems that they have admitted that earlier the system was faulty, and it seems very hard to know your position whether or not the Orbán government can correct its error by error, so the failed enforcement system may be pushed further into the abyss with another error. On the other hand, the commissioner? And I'm waiting for your answer? Will he be a regular participant in the famous millionaire wellness weekends in the country's prestigious hotels, either by executives or by other invited guests? Is the Commissioner just going to come in here and have a good time in these hotels, or will he really do supervisory work? The main question is whether the government wants the executives to be accounted for at all, or whether it wants to make some kind of pretense action in the form of a quick deal. I believe that these questions will in any case be answered by the Secretary of State, and that they will finally be able to speak authentically about the issue of executives, because I believe that their current proposal to correct errors is not credible at all and is not capable of resolving and cleaning up the system at this level. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-70	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in a normal time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asked for the floor in a two-minute time frame. That's a possibility. You have the floor in two minutes.
u2014-11-11-71	Mr President, Dear House, Since I see that there is no real debate, I must draw attention to one or two key areas within the framework of our final proposals, without which we cannot even hold a debate on what lies before us, and this is seriously linked to the intention to reform the implementation system. Without transforming the chaotic legislative environment around debt management, we believe that the majority of abuses cannot be eliminated. Once again, when changing the standard terms and conditions on a weekly or even daily basis, do we think about establishing the real nature of the obligation to provide information, so that this is really tangible, can be called into account, should it not be repeated so that the debtor can find out from the debtor? Or the one they think owes you something? that with some outstanding amount of debt to him in a quote? It is accused or rightly called to account. Cleaning up the notification system will ensure that the debt management, enforcement or, in worse cases, the collection companies do not come and receive the first information, and we should also do something about the fact that psychic warfare, unfortunately, as a primary weapon, can be found very often with these debt managers. Most often, the debtor is bombed by text messages, e-mails, and is harassed by phone. We have had examples of being harassed 15 times a day, on weekends, at work, at late night or at night, and when they try to make someone impossible in front of their friends, colleagues, and family, there are very serious legal concerns. So the complete and joint cleansing of this system now calls for action. I would also ask you to give me a few words during the closing term to respond to whether this abuse tsunami has any action plans for the government, or whether it can overcome this problem by appointing a Commissioner. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak in a two-minute time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no further speeches have been made, the general debate is closed, there is no longer room for proposals for amendments to the House Rules adopted. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Répássy Róbert, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-11-73	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen, I can say that I partly agree with you, of course I agree with your criticisms, and I partly agree with your concerns. I ask you very much that when you look at this bill, you should consider whether this bill will allow us to put judicial enforcement in order, to resolve the lack of confidence in court enforcement, and to strengthen public confidence in the enforcement system. [[13.20]] Is it our position that this bill is capable of taking the first step in order to restore public confidence in the judicial enforcement organisation? Step one. We are indeed aware that this is a temporary solution, and you can see that there are no major issues on the table in this bill. This bill and the legal solution itself are suitable for a clear view of all legal problems within no more than a year, and for all the solutions to be proposed, which are related to the reform of the judicial enforcement organisation. Of course, when we hear these criticisms? And do we share some criticisms ourselves? Then we must always draw attention, and I often do so by asking my fellow Members not to attack judicial execution. Court enforcement is a very important element of the rule of law justice, judicial enforcement is necessary, and justice is not functioning without judicial enforcement. In relation to the activities of judicial enforcement, or in relation to the organisation itself, criticisms should be carefully examined and, of course, resolved when they are justified. However, strengthening the mistrust of judicial enforcement will weaken the rule of law, so it is very important that in this Chamber, in Parliament, we can agree that judicial enforcement is necessary and that judicial enforcement will not, of course, be possible without judicial enforcement. The other question is who these executives should be, what kind of conditions they should operate under, what system of interests they should operate under, who should supervise their activities; that is what our debates are really about. I believe that this current bill gives the government, the judicial government, an opportunity to bring these questions here to the Parliament, to examine carefully how the Chamber of Executives of the Court works, to assist or hinder implementation by the executive chamber, and, of course, to bring the issues relating to executives to Parliament. So what I'm asking is that the Parliament empower the government, through this, of course, the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, to present all these questions to the Parliament. As I said, in no more than a year the Parliament will be able to answer these questions again in a thorough debate, in a detailed debate, if this bill is now adopted. We ourselves, the Ministry of Justice and the Government will be much clearer about the problems that arise with implementation, about the Chamber of Executives, and how we can resolve this. I ask the authority to do so, and I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, By way of derogation from house rules, the second reading will take place next week at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Act CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/1706. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-11-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 1993 XLVIII on mining in front of you. Act CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. A bill amending the Act aims to create a more favourable environment for domestic mining companies, thus encouraging more efficient extraction of domestic mineral resources and thereby reducing the country's energy dependency. During the preparation of the law, we took into account the ideas outlined in the national strategy and took into account the lessons learned from the concession procedures issued in recent years, the competent background institutions, the Hungarian Mining Office and the Mining and Geological Institute carried out this preparation, asking for the opinion of market participants and mining agents, and drawing up the legislative proposal before us on the basis of experience. This bill contains basically facilitations, clarifications and the correction of procedural issues, in addition to introducing new regulatory options and new regulations on a number of issues that have been lacking so far in mining processes to launch new solutions and research aimed at eliminating our energy dependence. It should also be pointed out that, under the National Property Act, ownership of the honeybees of the land extracted from their natural place of origin can be acquired in the manner laid down in the sectoral law, and it is therefore also necessary to regulate the way in which ownership of mineral resources is acquired within the framework of the Mining Act for the extraction of mineral resources in connection with activities other than the mining licence. The regulation can prevent the unlawful exploitation and exploitation of unauthorized mining activities and property belonging to the State for the purpose of profit. In the context of the amendment, the bill also states that no mining fee is to be paid for the quantity of mineral raw materials produced under the building permit, not exceeding 500 cubic metres, and for the quantity of mineral raw materials extracted in the course of activities carried out under other official permits other than the mining supervision licence, which were issued to a builder acting in the name and for the benefit of the Hungarian State under the Law on Road Transport. In order to prevent conflicts of competence between individual authorities, hydrocarbon mining operations for mineral resources management purposes, including in particular fracturing, stratified acidification, water and gas injection, the authorisation to replace layers of energy, are clearly stated in the bill that the authorisation of these mining technology operations falls within the competence of the mining supervisor. The environmental authorities will be able to enforce their duties in relation to the protection of groundwater in procedures for the approval of the mining authority of technical plans containing layer stimulating technology operations. The bill also includes the establishment of rules on the extraction of mineral resources for the construction of water facilities for protection and protection against damage to water, with the aim of establishing a simplified procedure for the establishment, operation and elimination of material access points for the activity. The main rule is that no material access shall be made if, near the construction of a public water facility, sufficient quantity and quality of filling material is available in the mines and the mineral raw material extracted from them is more favourable or obtainable at the same cost as from other sources. The mineral raw material extracted from the material access point remains the property of the State and thus the new legislation precludes the possibility for the licensee of the material access point to acquire ownership by extraction. [[13.30]] The aim of the regulation is to ensure that flood protection projects are carried out at the same time economically, prevent unnecessary burden on mineral resources and minimise the development of unnecessary landscape damage. The 2007 cropland CXXIX was amended in connection with the introduction of the material access regime. Act on the basis of which the concept of a target point is supplemented by the concept of a material access point. In addition to the above, the purpose of the bill is to lay down provisions to facilitate the interpretation of the law, the procedure of the authorities and to clarify and clarify the provisions at the statutory level, the conduct of proceedings and the settlement of damages. I must add that it is an important part of the bill that, in line with the laws adopted earlier in this House, it also included rules on carbon storage procedures and geological research in the bill. Dear Parliament, In summary, I can say that the amendment of the Mining Act to be negotiated now sets out substantive, important and deep provisions in its content, which allow responsible management of both mineral resources and state assets, and also serve significant energy policy objectives. On this basis, I ask that the proposal be discussed, and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-11-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Riz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, T/1706. It is an integral part of the general debate on bill No 1 and adopted in the previous cycle of the Orbán government, the national energy strategy and the mineral wealth action plan. 77/2011 on the national energy strategy. Point 4 of the Parliamentary Decision authorised the Government to provide for the search for energy-reliable domestic mineral resources and better ensure the conditions of strategic stock management, as well as the conditions for the survival of the domestic coal mining profession, accordingly to draw up an action plan on the management and exploitation of domestic mineral resources. Greater use of domestic energy supplies will reduce our dependence on imports, but their extraction and use will only be possible through the use of technologies and new developments that meet the strict environmental and climate protection standards. The overall objective of the Action Plan is to improve the economic and social position of the mining and energy industries in view of current and expected technical, environmental and economic trends, the rational and sustainable management of state-owned mineral resources in the common interests of the State as well as of the economy and society. With the country's energy mineral wealth, does the government and the country want to acquire the potential of registering and assessing potential not only for coals and hydrocarbons? including non-conventional sites? be limited, but this should also cover geothermal options, fissile material stocks and underground storage capacities. In addition, waste from various industries, such as construction waste, mining infertiles, thermal energy released during mining activities and ash generated in the energy use of wind and biomass, should be considered as an integral part of raw materials management, since the minimization and use of these are critical waste management, energy management and industrial development issues. The most important tasks of the abovementioned Action Plan are primarily to maintain and educate the profession culture, as we all know very well that the mining-related profession has slept for nearly 20 years with Sleeping Beauty dream and has only recently been brought back to the government level. Day school has just started again, and in several adult training sessions, we are recreating the country's obituaries. Another important task of the action plan is that mineral assets are recorded, data management and raw materials are discovered. The creation of R &amp; D and sample projects is another priority. Ensuring that the economic and institutional system is conditional is also covered. In addition, it is also important to develop the economic model and the sustainable use of domestic mineral assets. T/1706. In the context of the Government Decision 1870/2013 on certain tasks related to the future development of domestic mining, the proposals for amendments contained in the legislative proposal serve to create a more favourable environment for domestic mining companies, to achieve administrative opportunities in an entrepreneurial manner that ease their daily burden, thereby encouraging more efficient extraction and exploitation of domestic mineral resources and thereby reducing the country's energy dependency. As Mr Secretary of State mentioned above, there are several main points in the amendment of the laws. Some of these concern mining, some of which exclude from the mining remit the area, the geological area of nuclear research, which is not subject to the Mining Act. I believe that the bill and the amendments all serve to make it easier for mining organisations, companies to reduce their lives and administrative burdens in the next period, so I ask for your support for the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-11-78	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-11-11-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Is it really the same as the Secretary of State said? Is this how I start my speech? In fact, this bill is suitable to correct previous errors or minor practical issues, I think it will put things right. In addition, the Mining Act relies, in a significant part, on the proposals of professional interest organisations, which are also incorporated into the proposal. This is how you can see that the authorisation of geological research is finally going to the Mining Inspectorate, as you said, to build public water facilities for the protection and protection of water damage, to extract mineral resources, and to go back to the Mining Act. So far, that's what it's been - researching and exploiting material-retrieving sites? the area where it was the easiest way out of the Mining Act for entrepreneurs who did this. They reduce the discretionary authority of the mining inspectorate, which also brings some degree of inflexibility and flexibility in this, but it is very good to reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. What is it you can't do? Sorry, here's another review. Codification criticism, which I have received from a lot of places, has been told to me by a lot of people. I wouldn't have noticed it myself if they hadn't told me. It's a 1993 law, and we've been changing it ever since, and it's been amended by the House. It would be easier for everyone who has to apply this if, once in a single structure, there was an amendment or a new law adopted in a single structure that would not only lose entrepreneurs and those who deal with the administration of this, but also a proposal with a single structure. [[In the notary seat Attila Móring József will be replaced by László Földi.]] However, what this bill is not suitable for: it does not give new impetus to the exploitation of domestic mineral wealth, to the Hungarian mining research. Not so long ago, I asked your ministry, perhaps a week ago, what the government is doing to implement its decision because you made a little campaign-like decision in 2013 at the end of 2013; I will not read it, as my fellow Member did. It's pretty much the same thing, but it's all about Baranya County, and I'm from Baranya, so it was important to us, because we wanted to believe that they actually wanted to open a mine there. [[13.40]] In this you will find that, in order to promote the development of domestic mining, everything needs to be done and, of course, our country's energy dependency must also be reduced. A proposal for a review of the legal environment should be made. This is what my colleague, the Secretary of State, informed me that this is actually happening. That wasn't news, we knew it was coming to this House. However, he did not respond to what they were doing to actually extract minerals, and indeed to reduce our energy dependency. And I had one last question in this one, which was to start a trip to Komlo. We have just heard that there have been several locations in Hungary. If my fellow Member could tell us where we train for quacks, that would be very good. We're not training people right now. We train heavy machinery operators and maintainers for field work; the last time he said the same sentences here, during the approval nodding of Mr. Secretary of State. We are not training gardeners, not even because you do not promote the extraction of mineral resources so much that in some fifty days you will close down Hungary's last underground coal mine in Márkushegy. And we need to talk about that a little bit. If this happens, other than what is also a tragedy, that 300 families lose their livelihoods, besides what will happen, I think that it doesn't have to look into the future, unfortunately it has to look into the past. Where I come from, Komlo, we know exactly what happens. Industrial restructuring is difficult after a monoculture, the already oversized utility systems are very difficult to pay for by the already beautiful, slowly poor population, and then a huge emigration starts, and the forgotten cities become empty cities. I think you can stop this today. Can you stop today if you are serious about what is written in this law, and you are serious about what Mr. Secretary said? Did I write it down on purpose? extraction must be ensured, energy independence must be created and dependence reduced. How, then, can this be said just fifty days before the completion of underground mining and coal extraction in Hungary in about 50 days, and we do not see what will replace it? We do not see that people who lose their jobs there, what their vision of the future will be, what will be the vision of those cities when the satellite plants that serve the mine will cease after the mine, and the rest, and the rest; I do not say, I have just said. What will be their vision? On the other hand, it is said that 12 non-charted fellow Members are training heavy machinery in the town of Komló, who will work on the surface someplace. We've heard them open the mines many times. But there are mines or mines offered to you, this glaze-south mine. They found me there for a 220 million tons of hard coal. By comparison, it's a little more than the amount that's been released in the last 200 years of mining in Mecsek, and one of the owners has offered you a share of this. I don't know if they've answered it yet. Not according to a newspaper article from two weeks ago. So what you write on paper, because the paper can handle everything, of course, is the administrative improvement of this thing, but what happens in practice is exactly the opposite. What they offer you may not answer, but they may thank you, they do not ask; and where there is still an underground mine, and where there is still coal extraction, where our energy dependence could be reduced, of course, you will close in fifty days, not counting the consequences. It is also a news report from two weeks ago that White Horse Energy in Baranya County, who has been registered as an investor here, who would have been engaged in coal extraction, as pure coal technology, as uranium extraction, stops research without further delay, wants to maintain its own solvency, and that is why it is going to withdraw from this area.In 2016, its concessions, its concessions, which were very, very difficult to obtain, will expire. I asked the Secretary of State what you were going to do in this case, and he said that we would soon adopt the new Mining Law. There's not a word about how it would make it easier for them to start the extraction, and it's not like that? And I didn't get a single thought about it in your answer? whether they were negotiating with this investor at all. I say this a little bit more vehemently, because this is what the whole campaign was about in Baranya, at least in North Baranya, about who is going to start it and who stands next to it with more heat to start the underground mines or the excavations on the surface and to extract new coal, because it is the only point of breakout in the region. I feel the same way, only then should we see the same attitude, not that we write it down on paper that it is very important and that we are reducing administration, but in fact these entrepreneurs, for whom we are reducing administration, are slowly disappearing and leaving the country. What is still to be seen is that, of course, this profession and this profession still exist in Hungary. Unfortunately, it's getting less and less. We see that the death rate before the retirement age is the highest; unfortunately, it falls out of this profession, the miner's profession, a lot of people die before they reach the old age pension. There is still some present, and your past was also taken by you, and the future should be built on a strong pedestal. The past was taken away by you when the miners were deprived of their dues, and I believe that when we discuss it within the walls of this House, it must be said every time there are 10,000 miners, 14,000 miners who would be entitled to do so. So give them back their rights under the 23/1991 government decree. It wouldn't cost so much, and I think it would be the real respect for the miners who can't find another way to get a job. Let us make it clear that mining is a public interest, in which the social acceptance of mining should be strengthened. The aim was to re-open the mines in Borsodi, Baranya, to re-launch solid mineral mining, from which the government expected a positive employment and social impact, such results were expected under the coal programme; and an appropriate, acceptable and sustainable economic, environmental and educational conditions should finally be developed. What you started is a Patymkin village, and I cannot stress this enough, in this we are training 12 heavy machinery operators, where, by the way, at the opening of this school, my fellow Member Peter Hoppál specifically put the question of our energy independence on their shoulders. I don't think that's what training and they themselves didn't do in this case, and I don't think that's what it was supposed to be, but it was a sentence. It was a campaign, and we've been talking about something else ever since. If we look at this professionally, as you have said, that we need to assess Hungary's mineral wealth, then we say that in Hungary we can produce 23 million tons of oil, 74 billion cubic metres of natural gas, with the current technology and infrastructure available, and this does not include non-conventional, hopeful other natural gas events? And here the oil miners need a minute. Today, they are still prepared to have the opportunity to continue their work at any time. I am pleased that you said, Mr Secretary of State, that it is now easier to grow and research in Hungary, because this was not the case for a very long time from 22 October 2010. MBFH has simply declared the territory of Hungary closed for hydrocarbon research purposes. The closed concept..., pardon, concession applications ended with almost total failure, and coal mining concessions are not marked. [[13.50]] What domestic mining needs, in our view, is stable, predictable, transparent economic and legal conditions; proactive, state-initiated and supported R &amp; D; simplified but secure mine opening, this law is largely in line with; clear, fast and everyone needs equally economically feasible environmental standards and licensing procedures; the development of mining training at secondary and technical level; and not least, which has started, but then, somewhere interrupted, the development of the conditions for regional mining clusters is necessary, including government agencies, municipalities, entrepreneurs and interest representatives. I believe that, after the campaign, where we have listened to how important this is, we are now seeing a bill in which we can see that the paper can carry a lot of things, and you are, by the way, accepting the proposals of interest representatives. The exercise is completely different. The practice shows that you, I repeat, in 51 days, that if you do not decide otherwise, you will close the last Hungarian underground coal mine. The decision is in your hands. We've seen the consequences, and with all due respect, you can still change that. They can change it without further ado, so take the decision, do not let Markushegy be closed, but rather the extraction of Markushegy serves Hungarian energy independence; and if they did so, I hope that after that they will really open the mines in Baranya County, just as they did in Borsod. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-11-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have a bill that the government has promised Parliament for a very long time, and it has promised companies working in the mining sector, and some issues need to be resolved. This bill contains a number of proposals, which can, of course, be agreed upon, as it facilitates entrepreneurial activity in this area, reduces bureaucratic burdens and moves forward the whole issue of boosting domestic mining with these tiny steps. However, I must also say that, while there are a lot of legislative proposals that are of marginal importance here in Parliament, the government has not really dealt with the boosting of industry or mining. One time I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to mention a single bill on industrial policy that would have been specifically designed to boost the Hungarian industry; one thing the Prime Minister could not mention. If we are thinking of domestic mining, then unfortunately, the situation is just as sad. These legislative proposals basically remove technical barriers, but the sector will hardly be helped by this bill. It is recalled that Hungary's coal fortune is currently estimated at 8.5 billion tonnes, of which 2 billion tonnes of hard coal, slightly more than 2.2 billion tonnes of brown coal, 4.3 billion tonnes of lignite, so what do we have to do? Why have new investments not been made in this area? On the one hand, there is an uncertain business environment for a sector that is a particularly long-term investment in the economy, and in this uncertain business environment, companies are simply not willing to invest in private capital. Why is this business environment so uncertain? For four years, the Orbán government has been ruling, and every year tax laws are constantly being renewed, taxes are rising one by one, and companies are priced this kind of tax-raise strategy either by trying to get out of the country or by not creating new investments here, because they simply see that investing in a economy with protectionist instruments such as that currently exists in Hungary is worth it to those who can calculate what steps the government will take in the coming years. They are the ones who are told, where appropriate, that they should feel free to deposit money in this case, and they are the ones who are practically not risking anything. It is recalled that at the time of the change of regime, 60,000 people worked in mining in Hungary, of which coal mining itself absorbed 50,000 people, uranium mining employed 7000 people, and bauxite mining employed 3000 people. It can therefore be seen that there is a workforce reserve in this. According to our current estimate, based on the detailed material of the expert studies, which was included in the Seven Leader Plans of our 2014 election programme for the mineral recovery programme, it was estimated that about 30,000 new jobs could be created in mining alone. I would remind you once again that this 30,000 new jobs are half of the 60,000 new jobs that exist at the time of the change of regime. However, half of the number of jobs at that time could be created now if there were a concept of mining developed for this purpose, a long-term vision where the government can be trusted and, where appropriate, ensure businesses that they will not adversely alter the economic environment in which these companies operate. It is also important to say that such improvements can not only be made by private capital, and the general experience is that where mining activities are carried out, the significant multiplier effect of this will contribute to increasing employment in other sectors. I would remind colleagues here that in mining towns, mining villages, which still exist, there was a significant recovery and a vibrant economic activity earlier, because not only people were involved in mining, but also the miners, where appropriate, spent the money in their own living environment, the mine itself had a significant demand for supply to the food industry, the machinery industry, the wood industry and a number of other sectors; so a number of people were employed in other sectors related to mining. On the basis of international indicators, which quantify this multiplier effect, and say that only half of the 60 thousand jobs existing at the time of the regime change, 30 thousand people could be placed in Hungarian mining at present, this would be sufficient to create the employment of around 90 to 100 thousand people in other sectors, which are specifically organised around mining jobs. So I have to say that there is a significant labour market reserve within this sector, and I can only encourage the government to make its position clear, to ensure that in the long term these investments will remain in a secure business environment, not to drastically increase the tax burden where appropriate, but to operate in a predictable economic environment. It is also very important that the Hungarian state itself actively and actively participates in mining, precisely because the national economic benefits that mining activity represents for Hungary do not appear only closely in mining, but also in other economic sectors, and, of course, increase the public good in Hungary. We can also imagine ways in which the Hungarian State may be represented as owner in certain mining companies, thereby providing the private investor with the kind of stability and security that these companies would currently require. It is also very important to see that Hungary has had significant carbon surplus since the regime change, which we are currently selling on the international market, with the decline and radical decline of the Hungarian industry. This mining activity could, of course, be exploited by making greater use of the CO2 quotas. At a time when we are talking about the system of public burdens in Hungary, I cannot really be accused of not being able to stop or reduce tax cuts and all kinds of economic restrictions. However, I must also say that we need to look very carefully at where we might be taking tax forints, since the tax is nothing more than the source of the various public expenditure. Where appropriate, the roads in Hungary are based on this tax, which gives pensioners their pensions, and I will not go through the many things that we fund from this. [[14.00]] It is important that the tax structure is in order and that the tax burden is distributed in a fair, socially tolerated manner, because otherwise, if not, this will lead to tax avoidance. This bill contains a condition that the mining fee is not payable for the quantity of hydrocarbons produced using an increased-efficiency cultivation process. Now, I ask you, fellow Members, when we raised here in Parliament the Jobbik's proposal to help the poorest people with a 5% VAT reduction for basic foods and articles for raising children, the excuse was that this step cannot be taken, because there is no budget for giving up these tax revenues. Then tell me: why do the oil companies have such a huge lobby in Hungary during the period of the government calling itself national, so that the amount of the mining fee to be paid for the oil produced in improved cultivation processes is zero, so that they do not have to pay a mining fee? So on the one hand, for the poorest people, a tax reduction in coke, they get nothing, even after basic food, the government doesn't agree to lower taxes, saying that the budget can't afford this luxury, and on the other hand, we see that oil companies pay a zero-percent mining fee for such an extraction. Well, I do feel a strong imbalance here, Mr. Secretary, and I ask that the government review this measure. Because I understand the need to boost mining activities. Now, I'm asking you, what kind of industry companies can enjoy a zero-percent tax burden. There aren't very many, let's be honest, the oil industry seems to have a very strong influence on its influence. It is also important to clarify what the government intends to do with the various oil and gas fields on which some large companies so to speak have sat. There are fields of oil and natural gas in the country where there is no permanent extraction, although preliminary research shows that the results of the test drilling also show that the Hungarian mineral resources are significant. However, companies think, with a noble simplicity, that they should form a strategic reserve for themselves and then touch it or not, and because it is an international company, they decide, where appropriate, on the basis of the current market situation, in which country the mineral wealth is being produced. This would be worth explaining to the government exactly what it would like to do, because we have seen foreign legal examples that governments are trying to break the sovereignty of certain companies with a concept that do not produce on the fields by paying a higher amount of tax on the fields. In view of the fact that no one likes to pay taxes on unfinished economic activity, they are therefore starting to harvest. And if there is a significant amount of natural gas in Hungary, I would remind you here that there is a significant amount of natural gas in Hungary, then why is the government not using these measures, why is it not doing something about the fact that if there is already a legislative proposal to boost mining, then why is it not realized on the merits? Why can't we see any evidence of this in the law? It is also important to clarify, and I would have been happy to see in this bill what kind of policy the government has on strategic stocks. What kind of strategic ideas do you have? What am I thinking? There is a large-deep macro-NG field, which can be developed with current technologies, either not or limited. At the time when the government, which declared itself national, practically let this Macedonian natural gas field pass to foreigners, sold it, it did nothing but identify it as the second largest natural gas field in Europe for a significant part of the strategic Hungarian natural gas wealth, and resigned simply for the benefit of foreigners. What was the reason for this measure? The government said that the current technologies could not be developed, that this was not worth dealing with, and then sold out the national assets for pennies. And tell us what happened: an equity company with private capital had an interesting strategic interest in the possession of Hungarian natural gas. because it was in the interest of a private company to buy the natural gas field. Then tell me, why was it not in the interest of the Hungarian State to continue to own this? ! Why does a company with private capital, such as the Hungarian State itself, think in the longer term? Does this correspond to the passage of the national wealth law to the need to manage national wealth in a responsible, transparent and long-term way? It's hardly the right thing to do. If a private company calculates its own economic interests in the longer term than the Hungarian State, ladies and gentlemen, it is the shame itself, it is the squandering of our national mineral wealth. So, as a whole, there are good and forward-looking elements in this bill, but the shortcomings we have discovered in the bill, Mr State Secretary, suggest that if the government wants to do its job well, it will be necessary to bring back the Mining Act to Parliament shortly and to renegotiate these issues. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, if I have to put it briefly, we have come to similar conclusions as Jobbik's policy-makers that there are some elements to support and there are very serious risks in this draft legislation. I must say, unfortunately, there are two things that cannot be avoided in the general debate. One is not to talk about a party's own values at some level, and the other is not to look in a draft legislation for the sights, the little things that it sees in them, for risk, and therefore focuses on this. Let me tell you that the May Other Politics as an eco-party is committed to the fact that Hungary's mineral and agricultural land as Hungary's most important natural resource system is the resource background on which to build an economy. We do not believe in the service and trading society that has developed in many welfare societies in Western Europe, and we do not believe in a economy that does not put natural resources first. At the same time, because of this approach, we are dealing with all the legislation which seeks to make use of these natural resources in some form with a very high degree of importance and importance. During today, in my speech before the agenda, have I mentioned this? I don't know English? a document entitled The World Happiness Report, which was examined and evaluated on the basis of many aspects and where we were in 110th place. This clearly shows that the countries of northern Europe, but also many welfare Western European states, are included in the top 10, including Costa Rica and Mexico. This is interesting because there are a lot of aspects that influence a country's vision, and one of them is the security that countries' leadership should encourage across governments with the legislative environment. And the lack of this security, the haste, the rapid use of a resource, the swift pursuit of political interests cannot in any way be desirable either for legal certainty or for the sense of human security or for the management of the country's natural resources. As I said in my introduction, we have also come to the conclusion that there are a number of elements that simplify procedures overall, clarify, correct competence and competence issues, while at the same time there are serious risks to this draft. That is what we would like to draw attention to. T/1706. A number of necessary legislative clarifications on mining and the protection of agricultural land are included in the bill. [[14.10]] I would just like to touch on a few points of the bill, which, in my opinion, are of concern and may be risky for the future of Hungary in terms of constitutional and fundamental rights to a healthy environment. I would like to highlight, first of all, the section on shale gas, which puts under the responsibility of the Mining Inspectorate the fracturing applied to the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons, as well as the injection into water for the purposes of fracturing technology and layer energy. More commonly known as the shale gas drilling. The other problematic part is also partly related to this, which is to enable the geological storage of carbon dioxide. Overall, the LMP believes that a topic such as the country's energy future, the implementation of its energy security, would require a national consensus in this regard, that the majority governing parties and the opposition representing a serious group of voters in the Hungarian Parliament also have a consensus on the direction in which the country's energy strategy is going. Obviously, we see this lack when we take this strategic thinking down to practically simple mining authority, with the exception of Parliament's powers, and we provide the powers with this draft legislation in such a way that it is possible for it to be decided at official level that it will be possible or not to use such technologies. That's what we don't want. This is what we are saying that Parliament should think, and the governing majority and the opposition should seek some consensus on what can be decisive for the country's energy future. We're talking about shale gas, which is found in the pores of a tiny sedimentary rock, and it's only collected in larger quantities after the rock is destroyed. As a result, a mixture of sand, water, and chemicals is brought to great depths. It's relatively a new technology that carries a lot of risks. When the government decides which new energy sources it supports, it is absolutely important to enforce environmental, environmental and nature protection aspects in energy production, which are now virtually below strengthening the powers of mining authorities. The LMP takes the view that instead of experimenting with shale gas and nuclear energy, the country can move towards national energy self-determination by voting alongside renewable energies that are not harmful to the environment. After Paks, this draft legislation could be another step in the direction of putting it down and providing resources and powers to counter this. In Europe, significant environmental concerns have already been raised regarding the hydraulic cracking process for shale gas extraction. In America, where there are large uninhabited areas and in many places they experiment with them, regulation is much more relaxed and we see that there is greater confidence in the development of science in this area than in the old continent. In 2012, however, the French Government banned shale gas mining because they were too afraid to take on the risk of land movements and other environmental hazards, pollution of groundwater in the Paris Basin. In recent years, the relationship with shale gas extraction technology has changed rapidly and radically throughout Western Europe. Recently, environmentalists in Bulgaria have also managed to outlaw the procedure and have consequently withdrawn Chevron's concession. In the European Union, countries that do not create barriers to research and production are becoming minorities. However, with this legislative proposal, the Hungarian Government seems to be preparing to experiment with the health and groundwater of Hungarian people with a technology that does not have any scientific evidence of its harmful effects. Article XX of the Fundamental Law of Hungary However, according to Article 4 of the Act, everyone has the right to health, which the Hungarian State is promoting by providing access to healthy drinking water and protecting the environment. Article P of the Fundamental Law provides that the maintenance of natural resources, including water resources, and the preservation of future generations, is the duty of the State and everyone. It is also important for the government to take responsible decisions on the country's long-term energy supply and to put small and medium-sized enterprises in the position of the country, not foreign investors, foreign researchers and foreign companies. The energy industry is highly polluting, and we must treat it as a fact. Three quarters of our country's total CO2 emissions, 75.9 percent, can be attributed to the energy sector. In other words, current fossil-based energy production is a heavy burden on the natural environment, e.g. by changing climate conditions and thus endangering our basic human needs. Research in Hungary started in 2007 in the traditional gas field. The most active company is the Hungarian subsidiary of Falcon Oil & Gas in Canada, TXM Oil and Gas Research Ltd. I was. Later, the Canadian company with a Serbian oil company, NISZ? the majority owner of the Russian Gazprom? has concluded an agreement. TXM also carried out dozens of fracturing and had to stop using hydraulic fracturing after the application of hydraulic fracturing technology by the environmentally competent territorial authority. I would like to say, in general, the trend of the Hungarian government and the second and now third Orbán Cabinet since 2010 that has been mentioned several times in the process of forming a government, that environmental policy aspects seem to not be sufficiently effective. Nevertheless, these trends, the increased competence of the green authority responsible for environmental and nature conservation tasks and the ability to act as a basic authority for the authorisation of such tasks, have greatly enabled Hungary's natural and mineral resources to be supervised and to have control over the energy sector and industry in order not to lose this precious resource reserve of our country. I must say, the former Secretary of State for the Environment, when he had not yet been put together with other subjects, and the former Secretary of State, Zoltán Illés, has, to the best of my knowledge, also stood up against these technologies, and obviously not because he is not a fidesz, but because he is a specialist, and in this respect he considered environmental security more important than the economic opportunity that this technology might have hidden. In the case of TXM, the Lower Tisza Environmental Protection, Nature Protection and Water Inspectorate, which prohibited hydraulic fracturing, argued on the question of Népszabadság that the injected water contains 2% of toxic, allergenic, mutagenic, carcinogenic, environmentally harmful substances such as biocidal substances. Now the possibility of this ban ceases to exist, and that is what you are fully transferring to the mining authorities. As a result, we have serious concerns. This is very interesting in the light of the fact that the current amendment to the Mining Act extends to the distribution of authority licensing powers by strengthening the influence of the mining authority at the expense of a more critical green authority with shale gas. Although we do not see the regulatory process behind the amendment, we do not know how the amendment will affect the environmental authority's right to authorise shale gas drilling. However, the expansion of the Paks nuclear power plant leaves no doubt that the government's various economic lobbying is more important than environmental considerations. The current energy policy has a serious impact on social justice. On the one hand, it has a serious impact on social inequalities as to who benefits from energy production, i.e. where income from this sector comes from. And then we didn't talk about the hidden social support that the budget offers. Congressman Volner has drawn attention to these in part, with full clarity, in my view. [[14.20]] Domestic shale gas mining is also problematic in this respect, as Canadian and partly Russian-owned companies will be mining, which is not likely to have a positive impact on rural employment. Another false solution is the geological storage of carbon dioxide, which basically involves the creation of a large amount of carbon dioxide. The geological storage of carbon dioxide continues to delay the change in the structure requiring the emission reduction of gases harmful to the atmosphere. There was no social debate about this either, no impact studies, no idea who calculated whether this would be good for the country, whether it would be good for the country's environment, and we do not see what founded the initiatives on this. The LMP's energy policy vision would respond to the fact that, although the economy and society are currently based on cheap and abundant fossil energy, this is unsustainable and carries serious social and environmental threats. For climate protection and sustainable household spending reduction, LMP does not support the mining and burning of fossil fuels, but saves them. It is the cheapest and cleanest energy we do not use. Fossil energy is also finite, ever more costly, not renewed and in many respects polluting. Government energy policy should focus on four areas: national self-determination, employment, social justice and important strategic aspects of protecting environmental and natural resources. The main tools for this are the implementation of properly used, decentralised renewable energy sources, solar, wind and geothermal energy adapted to local conditions, energy efficiency investments and the fight against energy poverty. One of the most important instruments of the energy policy objectives highlighted by the LMP is the transformation of the energy production structure in such a way that it relies on renewable energy sources as much as possible. It is important to stress that this is a long-term goal, that the full transition to renewables cannot go from day to day, which we recognise, that we have to rely on fossil fuels to meet our energy needs for a long time, which does not mean, however, that we should push opportunities in a wrong direction with resources and authority authorisations for the future. The assessment of the renewable energy potential for our country is not uniform, but, overall, it can be said that there is no policy and practical barrier to covering up to full domestic energy consumption from renewables in the longer term, in particular that virtually all alternative renewable energy production modes are subject to large and certainly revolutionary development. This would be the result of the government's ability to invest as much as possible in R &amp; D resources, if it looked at the potential of industry, MOL and many of these large companies, with their regulatory backgrounds, would create the incentive to invest as fully and as complementaryly as possible in the renewable energy sector as possible, to support these research projects and to strengthen these developments. I would ask the representatives of the Government and, with respect to the Secretary of State, if there is a way, to react in the course of the debate, so that we can still have a chance to react. We did not have time to say a number of our thoughts, and we would like to thank you if we had the opportunity to do so. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-11-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As the independent Members do not take part in the debate, we are now at the end of the keynote speeches and two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group.
u2014-11-11-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Several people have said that this proposal contains administrative facilitations and that it seeks to put businesses in a more favourable position. I am pleased about this, and obviously this is an important thing, but not only businesses must be put in a favourable position with regard to mining, but obviously also workers who have put their lives on it. My fellow Member, László Szakács, said the opinion of our group, but he did not go beyond the fact that you have withdrawn the mining pension from more than 10,000 people and put them in a difficult position, even though these people working in the majority of the underground industry have put their lives on it, and this system transformation has been detrimental to them, by no means serving their social appreciation. I say this because, in my constituency, Pereces, Holuko has a serious mining tradition, but I could tell you that Varbo, Parasnya, Radostya, Sajólászlófalva, small mining villages where thousands of families lived their lives in mining traditions, so they didn't care about the message they received in the parliamentary elections. They believe, believe that something can still happen in this regard, that mining can not only be a present or a partial presence, but also its future in Hungary, if it has clean coal technologies or more modern technology, then obviously with it, but not very much to hear it. Administrative facilitations are one thing, and the other is how this state can play a role even economically in making something happen in this regard. It fits into the energy strategy, which is obviously Paks II. Since then it has been a new situation, what the energy mix looks like in 2030, and what the domestic fossil fuels have to do with it, all of which are questions, as well as the training of vail, about which my fellow Member, László Szakács, [[The President shall ring the bell to indicate the end of the speaking time.]] [[The President shall ring the bell to indicate the end of the speaking time.]] He's already spoken. I also heard in Borsod that distance training was offered to the unemployed in the age of 50, but this is obviously nonsense, but we would be partners in a lot of things (the president rang to indicate the end of the speaking time. ) This should be consulted only then. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-11-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gábor Riz, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-11-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Some of the things I've been saying before are just thoughts. The Orbán government was the first to recreate coal after 20 years, among other things, and to create an energy strategy. Once again, an action plan on mineral wealth has been put in place to set out the future potential and role of the mineral wealth identified, along specific lines. In addition, a number of studies have been carried out and are being carried out at the moment to try to illuminate the usefulness of clean coal technology in the current economic context. Let me just give you one more clarification. In connection with Mr Markushegy, my fellow Member mentioned that at the moment there are people excited about their future. I totally understand them, because I'm from Borsod, the neighborhood of Ozd, where more mines were closed back in the day. I have to say, this is the result of a previous decision, and they know it very well, and in 2010 it was the Orbán government that did everything to give them another four years of opportunity, income and work. And you know as well as I do that the basis for the closure was the economic inefficiency of coal mines, which Hungary is doing along the lines of the European Union's support, and can no longer be extended. In the next two minutes, I'm gonna want the next one on my side. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-11-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since further two-minute speeches will only be possible in the next round, I am now giving the floor to the Members who have signed up in writing, first to Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This law is basically about mining. Of course, its title includes the amendment of the Land Protection Act, but this is a very small technical part for the whole of the legislation. Although it has gone a bit past such an energy policy and energy strategy debate already during the keynote speeches, especially here in the two-minute speeches, which is not a problem, since the mining and energy strategy is obvious, it goes hand in hand and is related, because we can talk primarily about the mining of energy sources in Hungary, and, of course, mining activities related to the building materials industry are also the responsibility of these mining offices. But indeed, what is most important and of greatest importance in these mining issues is oil and natural gas in the energy carrier, including coal mining and non-conventional technologies, and in the energy carriers that can be obtained by the so-called fracturing process. I must say, in fact, as Mr Riz said in his two-minute speech here, such an action plan for the exploitation of mineral resources was born, and an energy strategy for 2030 was also born, but the problem is that it is often not seen on the part of the government in the previous four years? Or, technically, since the second Fidesz government came into power? consistency, but sometimes you see meaningless leaps, compared to this strategy, things happen differently in reality, whether on the international stage in the field of energy policy, or when you look at domestic mineral wealth and mining. The fate of Lionyi, the mine in Markushegy has already been mentioned here, and I would also like to deal with this a little bit, because it is indeed a little bit controversial that, while vail training is starting in Hungary, while the last underground coal mine, where practical qualifications could otherwise be given to these miners, will be closed, by 31 December the government's intentions are now permanently closed, although I understand that earlier it was because they could possibly extend the operation of this mine by a few months or a year or some. This is strange and also outrageous because in Europe, in the European Union, the European Union has provided support in the form of carbon pennies in order to keep this mine open, which is decreasing and clearly no longer making mining economics in its current form. However, we do see, for example, that coal mines and coal plants are being opened in Germany, which is one of the European Union's engines, in parallel with the exit from nuclear power. So what Hungary must not do, what Hungary is forbidden and must be shut down, is being recreated there, the technologies, and it is clear that based on coal mining, they are already producing electricity for themselves with more modern, more efficient power plant technology. [[14.30]] In the case of Márkushegy, too, I think that the mine and the power plant should be separated, because the Lion power plant itself is indeed an old bad construction, it produces electricity with extremely low efficiency, and it also provides district heating for the population living there. Obviously, this should continue to be ensured in some way. What did we hear? On the part of the government, it was stated in the press that in the next period, I would like to ensure that district heating continues to be ensured with imported coal. That's strange, to say the least, because if there's a coal mine...? and let's not forget, it was also found from another statement and from a statement on the closure of the mine that a new front was opened in the mine a few weeks before the mine was closed. So you're gonna start decoding a new set of coal, and then a few weeks after that? Is it obvious that they're still able to bring up insignificant amounts of this carbon stock? And then they just stop cutting, they take down the machines, they bring it out, and they shut down the mine. So that means there's more down there. I myself was down in the mine two years ago, and I spoke to the mine's management and the MVM authorities, and I can confirm that there is still plenty of coal in the Lion mine that can be exploited. I think it is not the mine itself, which is loss-making, but the mining and power plant complex in one place, and it is primarily the poor efficiency of the power plant, which does not make the production of electricity from Lion coal economic. However, in 2010, when we were talking here in Parliament about clean coal technology, Mr János Bencsik, who was then Secretary of State for Energy, shook his head slightly at the committee meeting, and then we saw that everyone slowly took over the rhetoric, and we heard the mention of clean coal technology more and more about both left and right. Indeed, it is clear that technology must continue to develop, at the moment it is not necessarily economical, that the price of electricity produced in power plants with this technology is not clearly competitive, say, with a power plant with a gas engine or other power source or otherwise produced, but is it a fact that domestic energy independence, if we want to build on it? And according to the government's strategy, that's what you want to build on? , then we do need to take these technologies into account, and for these technologies the domestic coal wealth, the domestic mineral wealth, which may not be economically produced yet, but perhaps in 10 to 20 years' time the technology will develop to the point that it will be economical and profitable, but if we close the mine now, it can be reopened in 10 to 20 years' time, or it can only be at an extremely high cost that will make the return of that time questionable. And for social reasons, it is also obvious that Jobbik has been in the interest of hundreds of mining families working there at the moment and earning a living since 2010 in order to save the coal mine in Markushegy. I have spoken here a number of times in the form of interpellation and other forms, and we have had quite a few debates with Mr Fónagy, State Secretary, about this, that it is worth it, that it is not worth how to operate it any longer. Now we may have made it to the second-to-last moment, but we still say that we think this mine should be kept open and saved. This is what the entire national mineral wealth strategy is all about, and that is what our energy strategy is all about, so that we can build on the domestic mineral wealth. I also understand that it is obviously a bigger deal in some aspects to open a new mine, a larger investment where there are large amounts of money, but it is also the least economically and otherwise sustainable environmental aspects, if we continue to operate an existing mine, where there are no environmental pressures or risks that persist in the opening of a new mine in a few years following the opening of the mine, because in a new geological environment, even a surface or underground mine will be opened. Our position on carbon storage and fracturing technologies is very similar to that of LMP, that these technologies need to be treated with extreme caution and concern. Moreover, CO2 storage itself, at a time when it was before Parliament, we did not support it, Jobbik clearly voted 'no' to allow the legal conditions of this, because we consider this to be a converting of the problem, and also a dangerous technology, that we inject carbon dioxide into geological storage media, which otherwise creates carbon dioxide in the same way. Not only does it not encourage future cleaner technologies, but it may encourage even greater CO2 production. Is it because once you create such a technology with expensive money that cleans and puts carbon dioxide in the ground, it's obvious that from then on? In quotes? It needs raw materials, i.e. it generates CO2 rather than reduces. In terms of greenhouse emissions, if we look at, say, its energy salon, how much energy it takes to squeeze it under the ground, and how much energy we use to operate this whole system, and how much savings we have in terms of climate protection, I believe that we can achieve quite a small result, not only at Hungarian level, but also throughout the European Union. It has already been said here in Parliament many times that the European Union is trying to set as high climate protection and sustainability targets as possible from a sustainability point of view, while the rest of the world is ignoring this smoking and airing the carbon dioxide, and unfortunately, we are also trying to make our economy a little more paralyzed by this instead, so to speak, to overtake ourselves in the climate protection targets. But without them, it is obvious that it will not work, and we can only achieve small partial results, which, unfortunately, do not encourage too much for the whole, for the envelopable future. What I wanted to talk to you about is that 500 cubic meters of mineral resources extracted under a construction permit are not subject to a mining fee. I am afraid that this may be a source of abuse, and in this matter I will ask Mr Secretary of State to respond in a little more detail to this, how we can avoid such small mines being created, whether for business purposes or for any other purpose, under cover of construction procedures, whether building materials or other mineral resources. What we see in Hungary is that certain parts of Pest county are already starting to have some kind of Emental cheese, or I don't know what to compare it to, where the mines touch each other, are in each other's vicinity, there are plenty of gravel mines, and the raw materials extracted from them are not necessarily used in Hungary or sold abroad in many cases, but the landscape is left in Hungary. Through these pits, the groundwater is exposed to the surface, and in this respect there is a risk of contamination or quantitative change. Also, in the case of water resources, we have talked about fracturing technologies, and I think that we need to approach this technology or its application very, very carefully in Hungary, because here it is stated in the law that I would like to bring it into the competence of the mining offices. The water supply may be our greatest treasure here in the Carpathian Basin, our underground water supply. We have large quantities of water and very high quality. If there's even a small chance that it could be contaminated in such a mining process? And we obviously know that there is no such thing as only a part of the body of connected water being contaminated, but then the whole thing becomes polluting and useless? The loss to us is far greater than the economic gain that can be achieved by, say, extracting some more mineral resources and reducing our energy dependency by a little bit, if we can reduce our energy dependency with the energy carrier extracted in the form of shale gas or shale oil. I've got about two minutes of my time. [[András Tállai: You have to talk.]] In these two minutes, in conclusion, I would like to say that the Hungarian energy mining industry has been supported primarily by Jobbik. As János Volner mentioned in his keynote speech, we have built a complete strategy for this in our 2014 election program, in the Seven Leaders' Plan, we have developed a separate chapter on mining, how to make better use of Hungary's mineral wealth, how to create jobs in a thousand scale. That's what we're going to do. [[14.40]] Obviously, we can also support the government's efforts in this direction, if both by saving the current mines and by opening new sites, new mines, of course, taking full account of sustainability, environmental protection and the protection of our water resources. However, we will not support measures that are completely neutral or even negative in terms of the country's energy independence, which have no particular interest in the Hungarian national economy. For example, I am thinking about carbon storage and other measures in the law. The main reason why we will probably be able to give our support to this proposal is because most of it contains measures to support domestic mining and to remove obstacles. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied in writing for his speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-11-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! My fellow Members who spoke before me have already said the criticisms of the proposal and what we have been able to highlight as a positive and even discussed what other positive effects mining has on other economic sectors, and I agree with them all. However, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I would like to share some points here from a very different approach. I believe that ecological and soil resource management aspects are less involved in this proposal, and it can be said that in the last 25 years, they have been given a rather small role here in the walls of this House. If not every paragraph of this proposal has an impact on these issues, it is therefore important that I present these few points here in the debate. The ecological change has come to us with severe, often irreversible and clear signs. Two of these have already become known in public awareness. The change in climate and biodiversity, I think, does not need to be emphasised, because here within the walls of the House and through the press and in society at all, this has now become part of the public discourse, which is very important, very useful, and perhaps it will help us to take meaningful action on these matters here as well. However, the third phenomenon, and this is more closely linked to today's topic, has not yet fully come across society, which is a major problem, because you, here in the legislative process, have not yet had enough to play this role, and this is the issue of land loss and infertileness. China is a well-known example here, and it has been said several times that its production area has decreased by 35 percent, mainly not because of surface mining, but because of erosion and chemicals, but also because of mining activities. Besides, the production areas in Hungary are also disappearing in a row, and the examples I would like to give here are quite graphic. But we shouldn't miss the role of the authorities, it's enough to think of the Colontar; here, 15 different authorities should have approved and checked the reservoirs, and we could list the catastrophic results of such non-cooperation between authorities. It was obviously the most striking, but we can also set many other examples. I also believe that this system, this bureaucracy and unnecessary duplication, should be handled. But let's go a little further. We do know that only 11 percent of the solid part of the Earth is soil, but the EU average is higher, about 30 percent, and our country stands out with 60 percent. This made it clear that a significant proportion of Hungary's natural resources, almost a third of them, are agricultural land, and the soil is also the country's most valuable renewable natural resource, and open-air mining is a part of the threat or influence. The land of the country is 9.3 million hectares, of which we put the agricultural land to 7.7 million hectares, of which 5.8 million are agricultural land. These indicators show a positive land supply if compared with only a few countries: in Bulgaria 0.67, in Denmark 0.64, in Austria 0.36, in the Netherlands 0.18 hectares/person and in the Netherlands 0.58 hectares we have a strong middle field. However, the trend over time shows that, although Hungary's population is losing weight, the agricultural area that can be used per capita is decreasing due to a larger decline in agricultural land. While in 1990 it was 0.62 hectares/person, in 2001 it had fallen to 0.58 hectares/person, so unfortunately, more recent data are not available now, and we only know them at gossip level. The practical appearance of today's land policy? And does mining play a part in this, of course? shows an unfavorable picture. While in 1990 there were 8.24 million hectares of agricultural land in Hungary, this fell to 7.7 million in 2007. This, I think, shows the problem that we are facing in a very graphic way and which can be further weakened in the negative direction if we do not, for example, accept this proposal with caution. In examining the process of land extraction, it becomes apparent that, over a larger period of time, more and more agricultural land will be used permanently for other purposes each year. Here again, let me bring a spectacular figure to the House: between 1950 and 90, the production area in Hungary decreased by about 9 thousand hectares a year, while by 2007 this proportion was already 15 thousand hectares a year. This, too, I think, is showing quite a significant increase, which is also a cause for concern. The distinct importance of soil resources among natural resources requires rational exploitation and protection, and I think we all agree on that. At the same time, does the damage caused by soil use affect not only agricultural land, soil, but also, indirectly, surface and groundwater resources, a near-surface atmosphere and wildlife? This has already been discussed in more detail by my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli. Of course, besides mining, it is not only mining that must be condemned, of course, as it significantly reduces urbanisation, industrialisation, urban infrastructure and holiday development, and, of course, waste disposal. These mean the destruction and physical destruction of agricultural land, the soil, because the soil that is destroyed cannot be recycled by soil methods, so it is lost, the soils can never be included in agriculture again. The requirement of agriculture for society thus increases year after year, as the same needs to be met in a smaller area. Moreover, soil use is addressed in a number of EU documents, and it would be good for them to be studied more seriously by decision-makers. The documents set out as a uniform strategic objective that all soil use must take into account the ecological protection of the soil, and soil protection must be integrated into sectoral policy, in particular, and many of these include mining, industrial, tourism, transport, agriculture, forestry, urban development and spatial planning policies. It is a cliché, but I think it is important to stress that soil is a vital but limited resource, and its use must therefore be reasonably planned. In addition to the immediate necessity, the competent authorities should take into account the long-term conservation of soil, the improvement of its productive capacity, but at least its maintenance; the correct soil protection policy includes appropriate legislation. So I have already mentioned the reasons for this reduction, and I have made reference to the fact that this legislation, I feel, does not address this problem with sufficient weight, and, as I have already said, should not necessarily be seen and taken into account in each of its paragraphs, but it would be good to have overall such findings taken into account. The decline in land from land extraction, the physical destruction and destruction of land is therefore a process which is extremely harmful, and the numbers I have said are, I think, a good reference to the scale of the problem. That is why I thought that I should offer this problem to the decision-makers. And I would like to emphasise here again that Jobbik is, of course, not against mining, and in fact, in recent years we have been saying that, where it is worth, the state must help to restart mining XXI. Taking into account the technologies of the century, but it is also important that in decisions, these inevitable problems, which are constantly coming to the surface and having an increasing impact on our daily lives, should be taken into account, examined and deal with as carefully as possible. [[14.50]] In closing, allow me to quote Count István Széchenyi, who said the following in 1830. It wasn't now 1830, but I believe that to date, especially in this legislation, these sentences are true, and should be taken into account in any case:. Sober mind will never sacrifice itself for a momentary or very short-term profit, although it can touch it today, with future greater'and more lasting benefits. .......................................................................................................................................... There is no healthy understanding of a farmer who exhausts his livestock for greater income, for he will soon have less income. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz, Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-11-93	Thank you very much. I'd like to pick up where I left off. It is a pity that Congressman Volner is not here, and he has just mentioned, on behalf of Jobbik, that they will name their vision of coal in the programme of the Seven Leaders. He was probably talking about Sleepy Leader, because the Orbán government doesn't dream, it does. It does so nicely, systematically, because the first step was to create a strategy; it creates the legal environment that you are now part of; it creates the conditions for training, because the University of Miskolc is the only institution in which mining engineers are trained at higher education level, and it also restarts middle level training; it is also a member of a European organisation that is one of the main European lobbying organisations in addition to Brussels' decision-makers, this is Euracoal. All Member States that want to participate in strategic types of development and direct use of coal in the future are included in this organisation, including our Polish friends, where the share of coal in the domestic energy mix is nearly 90 percent, but also the Czechs, where 44 percent, but also the Germans, where 47 percent, and in our case 17 percent, is the share of coal in the domestic energy mix. I just wanted to say this for the sake of clarifying ourselves. Another message to my fellow Member of the LMP: a little reminding of the newly elected Mayor of Ozd, who also visits wind wheels around Ozd, even though Ozd's name? Do we all know who lives there? It is called the city of the seven valleys, and only the Tatras, the Beech and Matras surround us, so the wind is about 20 days out of 365 days a year. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-11-94	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-11-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. About the strategy? It's true that we're not discussing this right now, but we're discussing the law, but are the two obviously closely linked? In the strategy, as you say, our current energy production is quite carbon-based, at least fossil-based, and it says that thinking about a long-term strategy could be good. What is our problem is what you are now causing the decision. I understand that the European Union, I understand that this can no longer be financed, can no longer be financed from the European Union. From next week, we will start the budget negotiations, and let this appear in a row, because you cannot solve the problem of the Lionese in any other way, so you can push it out a year; I think a stadium is less, but I don't want to be demagog in this story. Try to solve it, because in the medium term, the people who live there can't think. You're from Borsodi, I'm from North Baranya, and we know exactly what the consequences are. It can't be solved from one moment to the next, it can't be prepared very easily, even if they've known this for four years, even if these people have known that they won't have jobs for four years, satellite companies will cease to exist, the utilities that will be very expensive, while they will be poor, while they won't be able to pay for it. We've lived through it. We don't need a glass ball. We are negotiating the budget, if this cannot be done from European Union sources, then we are doing it from domestic sources. Let's think about how to take it and where to put it. If we want to keep it up, I think it's a decision. You are now in a decision-making position, and I think it could be decided correctly. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-11-96	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group, submitted a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-11-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to respond to Congressman Riz. I didn't bring up the subject of Ozd, where he came to the Fidesz house last Sunday for a slap. In fact, I have to say that the two-thirds shameful victory that Jobbik, our candidate for mayor, Dávid Janiczak to Fidesz on Sunday, is due precisely to the fact that in the last 25 years the governing parties have been involved? Left or right? nothing has been done to improve or curb the situation that peaks, among other things, in Ózd, and even in some parts of the country, which has developed as a result of the cessation of heavy industry and the cessation of mining. In fact, many people have become poor, and the crimes that are linked to the lack of job opportunities and are obviously linked to a layer of people who have taken this as a form of life have developed a kind of poverty in these regions and have developed a kind of crime. Jobbik alone has been able to present a program in this election campaign that shows a way out of this opportunity, and the legalization of the group and organized transport of the Kubatov lists and voters to do so was not enough to stop this process, and it is obviously not enough at national level, because, as Mayor Dávid Janiczak said after his election, this was not the last year of 2014 but the first choice of the 2018 season, and this will be seen throughout the country. We work, among other things, to create competitive jobs in these regions, and to make a living for people and to curb crime, so that it is better to be an okay person, so that it is better to be a miskolc, so that it is better to be a Hungarian person anywhere in the country. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This includes boosting mining. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Because no one from several factions applied for a two-minute speech? [[For signal:]] Will I be able to give the floor to Mr Abbot in the next round for a two-minute speech? Mr President, speaking on the floor in the normal time frame is now taking place. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-11-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Is it clear that the second Orbán government is just as...? and now, sorry, third Orbán government, just like the first, wants to work and work on building a work-based society. This society, which is built for this work, wants to build on a strong industry in Hungary and Hungary, and obviously also on the knowledge that is essential for this. Hungary has not been rich in opportunities since the Trianon peace to have its own mining and other instruments that can be used for industry, and what it has, I believe, is necessary to exploit and use it. Consequently, the law, if not a breakthrough, is a decisive step forward in that direction, and I must say that it represents a bold step forward? Will I explain why? in the direction that we strive to use our own resources and to make the best possible use of ourselves. That is what this law is about, among other things, which is what it seeks to promote. Is the law sufficient? Is there a debate going on here? and are the regulations in the law suitable for this purpose? I believe that, to a large extent, yes, but there will certainly be a need for additional instruments. There is a need for additional instruments, and I would like to mention a first very important aspect here. Hungary is a low-capital country, where it is expected that domestic and domestic capital will be able to be intelligent and modern in Hungary, as they said, XXI. Start mining in the first century, hardly capable, and this requires the involvement of the state. So the state has to play a role here sooner or later, and this role can be nothing but the definition and construction of laws at first? this is going on, and I believe I would like to emphasise it once again, with significant steps? At the same time, and at the same time, it is necessary to create the conditions for strategic steps that make the public institutions and systems that we have to make progress and progress within mining. Please, Mr President, allow me a little, short, personal evasive action here, because that is why I asked for the floor. I've been working for over ten years, according to my own weak power, in the field of environmental protection. [[15.00]] Always somewhere on the periphery, I must also honestly say, whatever role I have played, because my own view and position is that environmental and nature protection is the primary purpose and purpose, and I must say, regardless of whether anyone is religious or non-religious, according to the order of the Almighty, to create one unity between nature and the environment. The creation of this unity is, in my view, possible in almost all areas. The problem is always there when human penetration and human changes are excessive and unthinkable. If appropriate, with the Government's apparent intention to proceed on this issue, I believe that it would like to take this aspect into account. But we all, environmentalists, less environmentalists need to take note of something. If we are to serve the country's progress, we cannot go beyond the fact that we cannot submit to the use of the instruments at our disposal with some theoretical, often unsubstantiated demands that prevent them from being rational and sufficiently exploited. That's what it's all about in mining. I'm not speaking here for the first time today for the sake of mining, but I have to say maybe the third or fourth time. My last speeches didn't make much of an echo at the time, I'm talking about government circles. The fact that there is something in this direction on the part of the government that shows affinity is not as surprising to me as it is to be welcomed. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] If that is the case, we need to look for the next steps that will now be able to convert them not to pennies, but to a very large amount of money, i.e. to make progress in the field of energy. Dear House, We're talking about shale gas here. Mr. Secretary of State has specifically drawn my attention to the fact that since I am taking note of so much, I should also remember to say a few thoughts about shale gas, and I think that this should be said. The weird thing is, while we're being encouraged to shut down Russian gas because we might not even need it, because the United States is producing shale gas with tremendous force, so sooner or later we'll be beautifully equipped with shale gas from the United States. At the same time, at least the kind of exploration of our own shale gas, which would represent some modern exploitation for the future, is strongly opposed. Isn't there a contradiction? ? I ask myself and you, because I think there is. This shale gas thing is already on its way, right? We all remember it. The press was full of the great situation, because drilling and exploration prove that Hungary has a treasure here that may play a decisive role in our energy supply in the coming time. And then it went quiet, and they said there were difficulties, and then the whole thing just died. I am now encouraging the government that if it has taken this first important step in all the areas where there is a way and opportunity to explore new opportunities and explore and continue the old ones, they must be taken there. It must be stepped up, because then everything we say or want to do in the field of law is credible. Furthermore, my dear House, I would also like to point out that no one should fall into some sort of fatal error. The price of petrol, the price of oil, has gone down a few weeks ago. But not because the oil became more oil; not because oil production gave the world some new oil resources, but simply that politics had a say in this matter, and at such a level of movement, which is nothing more than the difference between an extraction price of $85 and an extraction price of $110 to $120. Let us not conclude, by any chance, that there is an abundance of energy in the world, for there was a reference here to someone whose view was that we could bring in much of the energy cheaper from abroad. Today, Hungary is preparing to be able to experience, or at least limit, a period of deliverance from energy dependence in order to protect its sovereignty, to protect all of us. Therefore, I would like to point out with great emphasis that yes, the energies we are talking about are good things. Today, for us, they're still priceless most of the time. And I have to say that it will slowly turn out that Sweden, Germany, too, is priceless, because they cannot ignore the changes, nor can they sustain the current situation; if we look at Germany, they will start opening the mines one by one, and they will also develop mining. Consequently, I would like to say that if it is in Hungary's interest to actually implement an industrialisation and put the world of work on that industrialisation, this cannot be done without energy. This energy, to a decisive extent? We're never going to be able to do it all by ourselves, but decisively? It would be good and it would be necessary to grow it at home. And finally, one more personal remark. I agree, of course, that work, the world of work, is very important, but I would also like to draw attention to it, and this may not be very relevant to today's topic, work is never a goal, it is a tool. The goal is to create a happy society. And a happy society means a balanced society. It means a society where we don't have to worry about freezing in the winter, where we don't have to worry about being without food, where we don't have to worry about being without health care. And this society must have a solid foundation. This law is a tiny step in the direction of starting to build these solid foundations in the field of energy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-100	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2014-11-11-101	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I would particularly like to thank Mr Gábor Riz and Mr Béla Turi-Kovács for participating in the debate on behalf of the governing party. I have had relatively little opportunity to participate in this parliamentary style of debate so far, since we usually get a reaction in a closed manner, and there are few times that we really have to respond, which I respectfully thank both pro-government Members. I would like to respond to a very, very many things, so it may be partly as if I were breaking up what I said, but it is very difficult not to respond to the various thoughts that have been said. I would like to start with my better fellow Members, of whom both Member Volner and Member Kepli and Mr Magyar have put forward a number of arguments that we should agree with. It has put forward a number of social, political, environmental and agricultural arguments that we need to identify with. There's very, very little to argue with here. Perhaps it is just that Congressman Kepli is one of the strongest advocates in Hungary for protecting our surface waters, especially in the area of Lake Balaton, so we should not only focus on groundwater during mining. In the same way, Hungarian Congressman said that open-air mining is only a threat or a threat; unfortunately, it is not only a threat, so mining activities other than surface mining through our water resources are also a serious threat. As a result, because we have agreed on so many things with the better Members, the only thing I did not understand is that this is probably going to support this legislative proposal, and I did not understand this sentence. If you see social problems, environmental problems, you see the risks that there are, which are lacking in agricultural terms, how can you support them? We also say that we support the acceptance of our amendments or the fulfilment of the conditions that we are talking about, but that you all tell me what is wrong and what is incomplete, so it is very, very difficult for me to understand. I thank Mr Gábor Riz very much for his reaction. The comparison with Poland is about as if Hungary was compared to Slovakia from a forest point of view, compared to Croatia from a shipping point of view. So, since our natural environment is completely different and our natural resources are different, this kind of comparison is unfortunately not well applied to Hungarian relations, because we have other options with different natural resources backgrounds. And I would also like to thank Mr Gábor Riz for not comparing me to the DK Members, which is an honor, because I think I would have resented that more. [[15.10]] MEP László Szakács asked questions from the EU. Let me mention two things in this regard. One of the things I wanted to say in my earlier speech is clearly that a few days ago I asked Mr Sándor Fazekas a written question to Minister of Agriculture and National Development Miklós Seszták about Hungary's compliance with the European Commission's recommendation on shale gas legislation. On 22 January 2014, the European Commission published a general recommendation on the minimum principles for the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons such as shale gas by massive hydraulic fracturing. According to this, Member States wishing to carry out hydrocarbon exploration or extraction by massive hydraulic fracturing should have implemented or implemented the minimum principles set out in the Recommendation by 28 July 2014. Since we do not know about this, this was my written question about how it stands, and this question is a little relevant here, because we will first have to inform the Commission annually by December 2014 of the measures they have introduced in response to this Recommendation. In my view, this current regulation, by creating a wider opportunity for mining authorities to authorise this, is contrary to this recommendation. So I am very curious about what the Hungarian Government will report by 31 December. The other international issue I wanted to say is that we are talking about research materials from the United Nations, freshly translated materials, i.e. resolutions of August 2014. According to the UN Environment Programme, fracturing can have inevitable negative environmental impacts even if it is done with appropriate technology. Below they focus on the two main areas of impact, emissions and water, and as regards the water issue, we have to say that each fracturing operation requires about 15 million litres of fracturing liquid, consisting of water, support material and a chemical substance of between 0.5 and 1.5 per cent. The latter include substances that are harmful to health and carcinogens. I told you about that. So, because of the use of these international experiences, I think that there is some concern about the approach that moves towards mining authorities. I regularly agree with Mr Béla Turi-Kovács on a number of things, and I always enjoy dialogue with him, and I fully understand and even share the Prime Minister's endeavour to build a work-based society towards the future of Hungary. I do not believe, so as an eco-party, we obviously do not believe in the service society itself, we do not believe in the trading society, we do not believe that it would mean Hungary's economic future, that we would buy something cheaply from China and sell it more expensively. Obviously, we need a work-based producer society that creates an opportunity for Hungary to become independent of external economic factors with value creation and added value in this respect. At the same time, the Prime Minister's opinion is that which parallels CO2 emissions and job creation, a good 20 years ago approach. 20 years ago, it was true that the economy developed as CO2 emissions increased. But that's not the case anymore. This approach is now outdated, and there are many examples now of economic growth in addition to reducing CO2 and, therefore, it is difficult to ignore these processes, because if we agree with the basic objective that the Prime Minister represents in terms of a work-based society, the way in which he is doing this, I think that the debate should be allowed. I fully agree with Mr President once again that, in my opinion, I can even say that, in the opinion of the LMP, it is possible for economic development to take place in harmony with our natural and environmental resources, but the problem is that we are not currently experiencing this practice. The approach of the Fundamental Law, government strategies, the speech by the head of state, President of the Republic here, all suggest this. At the same time, the practice is different. In practice, we find that, as the Minister's name shows, Hungarian society is treated as a resource by the government, a resource that he wants to exploit. He uses the environment as a simple tool to make money, and the goal is economic and economic development, and the members of the government, when they speak on Kossuth radio and here and there, measure their success in GDP and so on. We think that's the wrong approach. Just as Congressman Turi-Kovács said, we believe that the goal is man. This must be an instrument of the economy and a basic condition for the environment, because natural resources come from there and can only be built on well. This is very important in the present general debate because we did not go into the details, and then we do so at Commission level, because the change in the authority powers that may transfer powers and competences from the green authorities to the mining authorities breaks with this approach. Neither do we, nor do I boldly declare that I am not anti-mining, I am anti-polluting and pro-human, not anti-mine. What I am saying is that these technologies may exist, as long as they do not endanger the environment, do not endanger human health, do not jeopardise our long-term economy, and do not jeopardise the pursuit of sustainable economic development, so that these resources are available for future generations in the long term, and do not want to overuse them in a moment's profit. Because of this view, do I say that to me it is the most important authority? And that's why it hurts in the draft legislation? It's supposed to be the green authority. Everything that does not jeopardise our fundamental rights under the Fundamental Law, does not jeopardise our right to a healthy environment, and the green authority is the level that is interested in determining the level of sustainability in the use of natural resources. As a result, if any activity is transferred to a mining authority and will be decided as a basic authority, then these principles are legally unlikely to apply, because any authority that is competent and competent in the direction to promote the development of the economy will help to make the use of natural resources as efficiently as possible for society, this will pose risks for the future. And that's our problem with that? and will we have an amendment in this direction? In principle, the powers and the level of authority of the green authorities should not be reduced in any form and should not be disadvantageous to the mining authorities. Very, very briefly: we can continue to say that there are some issues that correct jurisdictions and powers, there are measures that make administrative procedures more transparent and we can support them. But we will only know the full proposal if, in some respects, we follow some of our amendments, perhaps even if the pro-government representatives consider and accept it, because if we are moved by the same goal, then the instruments should be similar, and this is clearly so that the right of Hungarian society to a healthy environment should not be undermined in any way. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-11-11-102	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. The next speaker is Mr László Teleki, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-11-11-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'd like to begin with a quote from Martin Luther King, "I have a dream." And this dream, as we have heard several times in this House today, is that in the '90s employment was an opportunity for those who worked and got jobs at different levels in the mines, and we can call it a goal or a tool, it doesn't matter, but one thing is that they have provided the opportunity for a lot of people to work. It was said here that nearly 60,000 to 80,000 people were employed by the various mining sectors. I take the risk that there were 100,000 to 120,000 people who worked in various mines, and besides mines, in companies and industries that served the mines. So that's why I think it's a very large number of people. Yet I have to start by saying once: it is important to me what employment in the mining industry meant. Here, starting from oil mining, any ore mining or coal mining can be seen, and in each area, there was a great deal to be gained by those who were able to work in these areas in different regions. I consider employment to be the number one priority because it is said several times here that there are layers who are in a situation without their own fault, and especially after the change of regime, which makes it very difficult for them to get back to work again and again. So the most important priority of this law that we cannot see and see is its complexity. And its complexity lies in how mining can be properly coordinated with the restoration of the employment sector that has flourished very, very much during a certain period. Therefore, I think that there is a very large deficiency in this draft law. But if I keep going, then what? Like I said? There were companies, factories that could live on mining, and there was extra activity and additional opportunities, and it was not certain that they were able to work in that geographical area, and they did not have to, but elsewhere. For example, in Zala County, oil mining was strong in the area of Nagykanizsa and Nagykanizsa, where mining also gave activity to a lot of people, and other companies that could still benefit from it. So, as a result, a lot of people worked. [[15.20]] But if we go to Oz and its surroundings, surface and deep mining have given us the opportunity and the metallurgy to work properly in that area. What I want to conclude from this is that people who are now retired or unemployed have been present in all areas of employment, but have been able to do a great deal to help them work. When I mention complexity, do I mention complexity in this area because we should think about public employment? And you're not sure that's a good solution? Let's say, if we could reboot the mines, either the old ones that we closed or the new ones that we could open, then we would say that the layer that can only live on aid right now could provide them with a job and an opportunity to live. Therefore, I think that the priority of employment is, in my view, a priority. The other, which is also part of it, is the provision of domestic energy. It is true that it would be present in Hungary in a small proportion, but it is also equally important in my sense of values, because many times we buy foreign energy in relation to different energy sources when we could do this in the country, and the employment force that we cannot see now, even though we could activate it by extracting domestic energy. Therefore, whether in the field of energy recovery or the use of human resources, I would consider it very important that this law, or even if not specifically this law, could appear in the complexity of this, because then we could accept that in a modernisation system the new and old situations can be brought into synchronized. But today I see and perceive that neither employment is thought-out in the context of the law nor is the complexity of the mining and complex handling of energy sources. As a result, I and the Hungarian Socialist Party do not want to support the bill, precisely because they do not see complexity in this law. If this is changed, the Hungarian Socialist Party can, of course, move in another direction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-11-104	Thank you very much, Congressman Teleki. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2014-11-11-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see Congressman Sallai is here, just changing places in the room. I'd respond to him or explain. Obviously, I will not respond to what we agree with, because there was more of it, but to the sentence in which it pointed out why I said at the end of my speech as a lead speaker that we would probably support it. This was probably the very question of the concerns that I have expressed, or of the Member's opinion. However, since the law itself contains the regulation of administrative, technical and regulatory powers, not in principle the authorisation of CO2 storage or rock cracking technologies in Hungary, which have already been discussed and rejected by Parliament in the form of carbon storage, let us say, and on the other hand in the form of rock cracking technologies, which we also do not support rather than support, but rather in the form of changes that may lead to the recovery of domestic mining, not in these matters, but also in the case of energy supply mining or other mining technologies, which involve job creation, which will help the Hungarian economy, which can help Hungary's energy independence. In this respect, obviously, we must give our support to all such efforts, as we have already given. One of Jobbik's leading philosophers was that what is good in terms of national strategy, whoever submits it to Parliament, we support it. At the same time, I fully agree with Mr President that we have concerns and that, in the policy of the previous and current Orbán government, we are also experiencing and will take action against the gradual deterioration of the environmental situation in the future. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2014-11-11-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, István Józsa has the floor.
u2014-11-11-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that from the ever-increasing debate, it is clear to everyone that Parliament is dealing with the amendment of the Mining Act with sufficient seriousness. You do that very well, because in Hungary there are serious traditions of mining, coal mining, oil mining, natural gas mining, but I could also say that water mining and perhaps even heat mining are also very important. It is regrettable that Fidesz has generated feelings during the parliamentary campaign, but also in subsequent campaigns people who have the right to hope for mining as if it had a serious intention to make a decisive recovery in this area. I'm not sure it's a promise. However, I do not think that we can expect such a legislative proposal to answer these political questions. With Mr András Aradszki being a lawyer to lead the energy secretary of state, so he became the energy secretary of state, although he has a serious history in the energy industry in Hungary, it is not certain that he will reform energy policy in the first month. As far as his professional qualification is concerned, the amendment of the Mining Act was tabled in a strict manner in accordance with the legislative plan. So I think so? And that's why I'm telling you this in two minutes, my regular comment will be professional? to a certain extent, it is worth separating the political, social and professional aspects of the matter. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-11-108	Thank you very much. Then proceed, Congressman Józsa, within a 15-minute time frame. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-11-109	Thank you very much. I did not think I would have the opportunity to be so directly attached, but then, strictly speaking, I followed the rule of the house that the Member would respond to what was said in the two-minute comment, and in the ordinary comment, he expressed his comments on the presentation. So I do not want to congratulate Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State, who has been my colleague from old times, and we have already fought many debates in the Committee on Economic Affairs, because this bill that he has tabled to this House, the amendments made to this House in a large part of the previous proposals made in the framework of the organisations representing professional interests, introduces comments into the provisions of the Mining Act. That would be commendable. I'm going to go through what we think is right. So, basically, we do not have the problem that we have in this proposal; our problem is with what we do not have, so it is possible to resolve the questions that have already been raised. In addition to the proposal, this may be a positive one, and? How can I say this? Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, who is an experienced lawyer, can also praise the practice of correcting errors in previous legislative procedures. The amendments under the bill are suitable to remedy and remedy some of the minor practical problems faced by the actors currently operating in the mining sector. At the same time, they are not capable of giving new impetus to the exploitation of domestic mineral assets, domestic mining research. However, this would be very necessary, as Hungary's traditional hydrocarbon assets, which can be produced with the technology and infrastructure currently available, are still very significant. Of course, this is just a professional estimate that 23 million tons of oil stocks and 74 billion cubic metres of natural gas are still available for exploration and extraction. [[15.30]] If we look at this potential opportunity, the past four years can be seen as a period of missed opportunities, as hydrocarbon research companies operating in Hungary have been unable to enter a new research area for nearly three years, since the Authority declared the entire territory of the country closed from 22 October 2010 for hydrocarbon research purposes. The concession applications that have been completed since then have ended with almost complete failure, so this was a wasted period. Coal mining concessions are not yet selected, so this is an additional task. As we know, time in a market economy is money, energy and mining, where results can only be achieved after much longer preparatory work, this is even more exponential and thus has a significant impact on the slow growth of GDP. So mining cannot have a beneficial effect on economic growth. It should be made clear and, after all, I assume the good intentions of the authors that mining is in the public interest. In this context, the social acceptance of mining should continue to be strengthened. The government's declared objective is to reopen the mines in Borsodi and to reopen solid mineral mining, from which positive employment and social impacts can be expected, but further regulatory action should be developed to ensure that the conditions for economic, environmental and educational development are adequate, acceptable and sustainable. It is therefore possible that this amendment to the Mining Act is a first step. I'm in good faith, I assume, especially the new Secretary of State, who, to say the least, may have predestined his previous record to go through with this sequel. However, we would encourage you from the benches of the MSZP not to give up with this one presentation, but to continue the work started. Domestic mining requires stable, predictable and transparent economic and legal conditions. I am thinking of special taxes, taxes, contributions and benefits. So these tens of thousands of people involved in mining, who have lived on it now or before, not to mention investors, require greater legal certainty. As I said, these are longer returns, so a hectic economic policy, a hectic legislative environment, is not in favour of this investor climate. Domestic mining needs a proactive and publicly initiated, supported R &amp; D activity. There are good examples in the world where modern methods of using mineral wealth have already been created. The adaptation of these to domestic needs, we believe, could be a priority government task. There is a need for a simplified system of operations for domestic mining, but also to support safe mine opening by means of official authorisation. So what I've already quoted is that on 22 October 2010, the closed declaration board was put out and it could not be searched for for years, we believe it to be extremely harmful. Domestic mining requires clear, fast, equally valid and economically feasible environmental standards and licensing procedures. Therefore, the current environmental situation in the field of mining can be improved, and clear and achievable standards are needed. In addition, domestic mining requires the launch of mining training at secondary and technical level, but not only in the context of the election campaign, but also in a real, multi-annual and economic strategy approach. In addition, it is necessary to develop the conditions for regional mining clusters, to understand and integrate the opinions and proposals of government agencies, municipalities, entrepreneurs and interest representatives. So what we have ahead of us, I could even praise, especially with regard to the Secretary of State's work. At the same time, the MSZP's overall opinion is that although the bill addresses some minor practical problems in the current legislation on mining, it is not yet suitable, we do not yet see it as reassuringly strengthening the social acceptance of mining and giving impetus to the exploitation of domestic mineral assets and thus the creation of new jobs, the expansion of GDP. So this can be such an encouraging reticence in voting behaviour, and it is a serious criticism of what we do not yet see in the context of this proposal. Of course, the economic government, the Ministry of National Development, can answer all of this in the closing and further legislative plans, which we demand. However, we would prevent the government from painting mirages in front of the broad sections of society that are rightfully hoping to strengthen mining. Please take this seriously. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-11-110	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr András Aradski, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-11-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, thank you very much for the meaningful debate that has taken place between the walls of this House in the last hour and a half. I believe that everyone has been able to express their views, their positions, and not only on the proposed bill, but also a greater look-out and an opinion on the energy policy of the future and its reservations about it. That's right, thank you for your comments. I have to say that I was a little relieved by the debate in terms of the fact that the criticism of the proposed bill, which called into question its purpose, had not been raised. The bill is all about introducing amendments to facilitate the operation of mining authorities, to facilitate the activities of mining companies, to make them part of the legislation that we have seen in the concession procedures announced in recent years, and those making concession decisions thought that there were situations where the legislation does not help, but could hinder an effective concession procedure. I see that on any matter which pursues the objectives of the law in this respect, it has been supported by the speakers, and I thank you for this support. [[15.40]] Beyond what has been said, we already have our differences and we certainly have our differences. I would just like to say that our task here in this House is to implement the energy strategy adopted in 2011, to bring in the necessary legislation and to make the necessary economic decisions. I think that this is not to take these measures with a magic wand, but to take many small steps to implement the energy strategy up to 2030. One such small step was the import of this mining law amendment, which? Like I said? clarifies the work of the authorities and focuses on what the energy strategy also says, that we need to be independent of addiction, that is to say, we need to promote the more efficient use of our own energy sources and promote the Hungarian production of the fossil part in the energy mix. Is one form of this, one of the options of so-called shale gas technology, possible? I'm gonna pull it under. Is it possible? applicability in Hungary. Because this law does nothing but define the regulatory framework in which the authorities can move in such a procedure, and it says that I think it is quite right that the licensing authority alone is the mining authority on this issue. This does not, of course, override the need to apply environmental standards, the environmental and water authorities are involved in such a procedure, and their position as a professional authority may even prevent the relevant authorisation process. Why you're in the right place at the mining department? On the one hand, because it's a mining issue, and on the other because it's a mining issue? Do you want me to tell you a tragic recent event? I am afraid to say this, but our experience so far shows, and I think my fellow Member, Mr Kepli, agrees with this, because we worked together on this committee, that if it had been a concentrated authority inspection, this accident might have been avoided. Focused official control, concentrated official activity, does not mean equality, does not mean that this authority does not work accurately and does not implement environmental and other legislation and does not comply with the very forward-looking environmental and nature protection provisions of the Fundamental Law. Many other things have also been said in this debate, which I would not go through in full detail, but I would nevertheless like to make a few clarifications. The need to close Márkushegy has been said. With all due respect, this mine was to be shut down by the then socialist government in 2008 and the power plant was to be shut down. Compared to the Hungarian government, after 2010, the Hungarian government found the opportunity to gradually meet this economic necessity, so that the people living there feel as little disadvantage as possible, by turning nearly HUF 10 billion into re-training and creating new jobs. I've been there in person, not Komlo, not Komlo in the '90s. Today, the unemployment rate in Russia is between 5 and 6 percent, and so far, the resettlement industry has been able to absorb the free labour force during the gradual layoffs, and hopefully this will be the case in the next period. How do we finance the operation of these mines with public money? it has been said that if it does not go with EU money, then let us do it with a public budget. Not to mention the tensions that this would cause in the state budget, I must say that the European Union has another instrument for such cases, and this is the prohibition of prohibited state aid. It is also included in his name; this must be handled with caution, because in many cases, not only Hungary, but other countries have also struck their ankles quite meatfully along such an exercise. Here, my colleague Volner said, in particular, why there is a zero percent increase in efficiency in hydrocarbon production. With all due respect, that's the way it's been, but we've just changed the concept. So far, it's been zero percent. And it's not a tax loss, because if there's no grant through this kind of mining fee, then this hydrocarbon won't come up. So this does not mean that there is a tax loss, but I have to say that even the extra gas, the addition of hydrocarbons, contributes to the reduction of the overhead, because the price of the domestic gas is fixed on a price basis in the retail tariff for the reduction of the overhead, so they do not put in their pockets such a large profit if the gas thus referred is used and offered for purchase. Did the Moorish say anything? Mori? The Mori trench is much more favourable, because there is good wine there; I'm sorry? It's about the macoon trench thing. There are only five mines in this area, one of these five mines is in favour of Falcon and the other four are in favour of the national oil company. So it is also not true that we have handed over these research areas in their entirety. There are, of course, many other ways to search for it, apart from the five mining sites. However, in order for investors and new mining contractors to be bravely involved in the concession procedure, we needed this amendment, and we also need to conclude the process that we have launched, as a general guidance on how and under what conditions the European Union requires the production of shale gas to be launched, in this respect we have set up an expert committee that will continue to examine this conformity, and hopefully there will be a situation where the competent authorities will be able to deal with this issue with sufficient comfort. It can be seen that today's Hungarian legislation is about 70-80 percent in line with the requirements set out in these guidelines. So we're not on the wrong track, and hopefully we'll be able to bring more hydrocarbons to the surface economically. Do I agree with that perfectly? and this was not an election promise, an election catch, unlike the VAT reduction by other parties in 2006; this was the MSZP when the VAT was reduced before the election, and then in 2006 after the election was won, was it raised back? That mining, mining culture is supported by the government. It's a very complex thing. Hydrocarbon research does not involve solving social, environmental, sociological complex issues like opening a new mine. I also think that the tactics of small steps should be pursued. It is necessary to look for ways in which the carbon or mineral extracted will benefit from greater added value for the economy in the future, how it will become profitable, and how its ability to retain a job will be effective, not in one to two or five or six years, but in the long term. 'Cause it's also a blow to the fact that if we open the mines and tell them to go to work, then in three or four years' time, it turns out that it's economically unsustainable, the country costs a lot more. Here, it is very thoughtful, and, as I have said, we need work in line with the objectives of the energy strategy, which the government is ready for. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you for the words of appreciation for the bill from Béla Turi-Kovács, Gábor Riz, István Józsa. Although he was too commendable to our wallet's activities, it may not be good for us, however, I believe that professional determination has been through his speech. Thank you again very much, and I would ask you to support the bill in the detailed debate and then in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2014-11-11-112	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Aradski. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on insurance and insurance activities until closure. The submission is T/1760. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-11-113	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Insurance also plays an increasingly important role in financial services in Hungary. In the area of financial services, the government is increasingly striving to provide people with as thorough, professional and comprehensive information as possible, so we are proposing a new law in this area as well. The aim of the new regulation is, in particular, to increase the safety of consumers, people, even when they decide on their finances in the form of insurance, and therefore to strengthen information requirements, strengthen consumer protection and facilitate access for customers to the necessary information. With the bill, we will also comply with our EU legislative obligations. During the transposition of Community rules, we paid particular attention to the peculiarities of the Hungarian market, so we placed great emphasis on certain issues. These include information to customers, the right to terminate contracts, and the protection of money paid by people for such purposes. Accordingly, the bill before you contains the basic organisational rules of the insurance sector. Dear House, The boundaries between financial services and institutions are becoming increasingly blurry and the rules on insurance institutions must therefore be adapted to the philosophy of banking regulation. Accordingly, the rules on provisioning and capital adequacy vary according to the risks inherent in the operation of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. The essence of this is to provide people with much more security than before when using financial services. This is called Solvency II. a directive to lay down the terms of the directive. In practice, this means that, in some cases, the compulsory capital of insurance companies will be increased and the method of calculating capital will also be changed, adapted to possible risks. However, the Hungarian National Bank, as a supervisory authority, regularly reviews and evaluates the extent to which insurance companies' activities, internal processes, ability to assess and manage risks meet the requirements. As a result of its assessment, the supervisory authority may take the necessary measures to safeguard the proper functioning in a timely manner. Dear Parliament, In addition to large insurers, which are already mentioned in Solvency II. They fall within the scope of the framework, and we also thought of the so-called small insurers. The simplified requirements of the Solvency I system are maintained for small insurers. It is an important innovation to distinguish between small insurance associations that provide services below HUF 300 million per year, which are in practice primarily related to agricultural activities. These will be subject to simplified staff and operational rules. This recognises the importance of ensuring that farmers who carry out agricultural activities can be insured for their potential losses as easily as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already stressed, one of the most important aspects is the protection of the interests of customers, and therefore we will regulate in detail the minimum content of the insurance contract and certain guarantee rules relating to the performance of insurance contracts. For example, in relation to life insurance contracts, there is a narrow exception, but as a general rule, the consumer is entitled to the right of reasons and termination without cost during the period following the conclusion of life insurance. The proposed amendment to investment life insurance is to provide customers with more effective protection than before in relation to their savings paid for this purpose. We have placed great emphasis on providing clear and detailed information to customers, which must be demonstrable in all circumstances, and we have included in the legislation the so-called full cost indicator already tested in practice, shortening TKM. Using this one value will make it easy for consumers to compare individual savings insurance products and their associated costs. The obligation to provide information on complaint handling rules is also an important element of the information. This rule encourages insurance companies to settle disputes with customers at an early stage, otherwise the Hungarian National Bank may conduct consumer protection investigations at the client's request. The proposal ensures equal treatment between men and women in accordance with EU standards, which appears unconditionally in fees and services. The possibility of data exchange for the benefit of the hazard community is intended to facilitate the detection of insurance fraud and abuse. This can, of course, only be ensured by guarantees that comply with the Fundamental Law and other constitutional requirements. Dear Parliament, The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, acting as a supervisory authority, has the possibility to transfer the assets of the insurance company that is no longer authorised to operate for the benefit of the entire risk community, so that the insurance relationship of the clients can remain unchanged, ensuring the continued protection of the risks of the client. Several guarantees were added to the rules of the winding-up procedure. Among these, I would like to highlight the compulsory car liability insurance contracts, where, in the event of the insurance company's bankruptcy, temporary compensation was granted for these contracts until the conclusion of the new contracts. Dear Parliament, The proposal includes rules on insurance intermediaries in a separate structure. It is a significant change in this context that the so-called "plural agent', formerly an independent insurance intermediary, will be considered a dependent insurance intermediary, which means changes in operational and liability rules. This amendment is necessary in order to provide customers with clear information on the interest of the contributing person in the case when concluding the contract. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the proposed legislation aims to maintain the safety and stability of the insurance sector and to anticipate a balanced, consumer-friendly environment and institutional functioning. I therefore ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-114	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-11-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is no less important proposal here than the new code of the domestic insurance market. I'm sure you and millions of people in this country have some kind of insurance, by the way. People put their money into insurance, in order to pay for the uncertainties in our lives arising from unforeseen risks, to pay more precisely the insurance company that takes this risk from us. [[16.00]] In today's sense of insurance, the idea and institution look back hundreds of years. Isn't that surprising? Can we have a little historical insight into the general debate? that, thanks to the first commercial shipping, it developed in an understandable way, in the time of sailboats and pirates. When the arrival of the goods could not be guaranteed, there was a need for a guarantee that could be used to compensate the traders left on the hop. From here, there was only one more step to travel insurance, which means that if a larger amount was deposited before the trip in case he did not return from the voyage, he would have received this amount or multiple of it back, if he had returned in a fortunate way, he would have failed that amount. It's just interesting that the first known life insurance policy was concluded in 1583 by a gentleman in London named William Gybbons with an insurance policy of £30, starting a market now worth billions of dollars. And perhaps what has not changed since then is the basic essence of insurance today, but the market has become much more complex and therefore more dangerous. However, the insurance market is full of contradictions, and as insurance products, so has the potential for abuse. As we know in other contracts, the devil is always in the details, and if a more uninformed client doesn't pay attention to the so-called fine print of contracts, he could easily get into trouble. For example, if you lose your job for a few months and you can't pay, if you don't have a good contract, this contract will easily be voided, and your paid-up money will be lost, and you won't have insurance. In addition, the fact that the insured persons' money is fully held by insurance companies, those funds are invested, the client, in the context of the contracts, so to speak, renounces ownership of the money. It is often unclear whether the first year's prize can actually be seen again by the client if, for example, the damage occurs. So without taking advantage of all the time, I would like to detail how many different types of insurance can be, it is clear that there really is a need for supervision and strong rules in this area. In Hungary, of course, insurance is still regulated by law, which is based on the relevant EU directives. However, since the market is changing and the directives are changing, so do we, now it seems necessary to amend the law. I would like to point out, first of all, that the new law is basically customer-friendly, taking into account consumer protection aspects, the interests of customers, as the Secretary of State has already mentioned. This will be reflected, on the one hand, in the significant strengthening of supervisory activities, in the rules on information obligations and, on the other hand, more emphasis will be placed on customer security than possible winding-up proceedings. However, before we go into this, allow me to briefly outline the EU directives to which the bill also intends to comply. It was said that EU legislation had a direct background to the so-called Basel II on the basis of the 2004 EU Recommendation. a process known as "the process," which places great emphasis on capital formation in line with the activities of credit institutions, thereby ensuring greater protection against different types of financial and operational risks than before. The process first appeared in the European Union regulation in the credit and securities market sector. These directives are adapted to the Solvency II provisions for the insurance sector presented by the European Commission during 2007 The Committee's recommendation. For 30 years, the current system has been regulating certain institutions in the EU insurance market. Certain elements of this system are outdated due to regulatory developments in other sectors, although it is clear and worth noting that Solvency I has demonstrated the durability of its rules over time, but, as in many other areas, in the meantime, some of its paragraphs have become outdated and need to be amended. The draft before us therefore pursues as an essential objective, on the one hand, Solvency II. the transposition of a directive and, on the other hand, the modernisation of certain elements of existing domestic legislation. Modernisation includes the development of domestic regulation, the transposition of accumulated market and supervisory experience and the experience of the financial crisis. As I mentioned, the proposal focuses primarily on the interests of customers and strengthens supervision accordingly. It is a qualitative change according to the draft that supervision becomes risk-based. The main objectives of regulation and supervision are to protect customers properly, as well as financial stability and efficient functioning. In the proposal, supervision is based on a forward-looking and risk-oriented approach. The proposal provides for transparent rules for publication and reporting. In addition to the principle of proportionality, it is an important objective for supervision to have all the necessary information necessary for the performance of its tasks. In the new system, insurance companies and the Hungarian National Bank for Financial Supervision will also increase their tasks, but at the same time the aim and hope will be the result of the proposal to reduce the administrative burden to a reasonable level. The development of specific rules for cross-border financial groups is an innovation. To this end, the group shall be supervised in a comprehensive manner by the supervisors concerned within the framework of so-called colleges of supervisors. The law also specifies in which cases the authorisation for establishment and activity will be revoked. It is an important innovation of the legislation to settle the rules on supervisory data management. As has been said, the proposal makes a significant distinction between insurance associations. Small insurance companies with annual premiums of HUF 300 million are subject to simpler rules, and the larger ones are, of course, more complicated than that. The rules on insurance mediation are set out in a separate book in the legislation. Moreover, an important change in the intermediary regime is that multiple agents, which were previously independent insurance intermediaries, will be considered as dependent insurance intermediaries after the entry into force of the Act by reason of the nature of the activity. The proposal also regulates how much commission insurance intermediaries can receive from each contract. The new rules include that casco insurance can be centrally managed, but data thus collected are subject to the principle of purpose limitation and that data on vehicles and keepers can only be stored for a limited period of time. Important changes in approach are also presented in the proposal. For example, the liability of insurance undertakings for their financial stability will be returned from the supervisory authority to the management of the company. Insurance undertakings will thus be given greater freedom, but, as appropriate, the powers of the supervisory authority will be increased in these cases. The consumer protection aspect, as I said, is very important in the proposal, and the law also makes changes in risk analysis systems. The main task of the system is to promote conscious risk-taking. As a result, the management will see precisely in its own decisions the risks inherent in the activities of insurers. It is also a significant element in the own assessment of the risks and solvency margin of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking. It is also a customer-friendly measure to clarify and tighten information obligations. This is essential because of the specific nature of insurance contracts and the unequal situation of the insured and the contractor. In addition, the new rules require the insurance company to receive customer complaints. The personal complaint will be lodged every working day between 6:00 and 18:00, and the telephone operator will be available between 8:00 and 20:00 on one working day of the week. Records of oral complaints which cannot be dealt with immediately shall be drawn up. [[16.10]] It is an important innovation within the framework of Union law that, in the event of the liquidation of the insurance undertaking, clients whose risk is being reinsurance will become direct entities for specific contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments could otherwise be classified for a long time. To sum up, we can say that the essence of the bill before us is that in the future we will be able to get more accurate information about our insurances, better security for our money, and less fear of possible abuses. Perhaps we could say that there is a significant reduction in risk due to the consequences of the transfers. The new Insurance Act is undoubtedly an extensive piece of legislation, so many examples, criticisms and comments are likely to arise in the debate, but I trust and ask my fellow Members to focus on the interests of customers and consumers in principle. I am convinced, by the way, that it is also in the interest of the insurance sector to adopt a modern, so to speak, insurance code. It is perhaps also a guarantee that there has been a consultation with the representatives of insurance companies, and, to a large extent, they agree with the bill. Do I think that this House will be able to accept a proposal that is? Is that what I think? brings a more modern and better system in the insurance conditions of millions of Hungarians. And for example, in the general debate, the significance of this bill is confirmed by the figures that, according to the most accurate estimates, it is about a 700-800 billion-billion market a year in Hungary, in the insurance sector nearly 40 thousand people work directly or indirectly, and if we consider that today there are about 13-14 million living insurance contracts, this means that every Hungarian citizen has more than one insurance policy from the smallest age to the highest age. So we can say that this bill and a good adoption of it affect almost all Hungarians, and we hope that it will result in a clearer, better relationship, so we certainly support the proposal, and I trust that my fellow Members will do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-11-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Satmary. I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-11-11-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is a extensive professional presentation on insurance and insurance activities, T/1760. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council on behalf of the European Economic and Social Committee. I do not want to be ironic, but it is comforting that the wallet presented it and not by Mr Szatmáry, although he was very professional in explaining the history of insurance, I also note in his other comments that he was seeking a fair presentation. There was a great need for this regulation, because Hungary was having a hard time getting out of the 2008-2009 global financial crisis, so many economic analysts argued whether the crisis would be a W-type, so whether there would be another setback after a fall and a rise and then a rise. Well, in Hungary, unfortunately, there was a fall in 2011 by the government, and then there was a slow rise. So the regulation of the financial area, increasing safeguards, is clearly a government task. It is not left alone by the Hungarian government, by professional organisations or by the European Union. This proposal is also essentially motivated by EU harmonisation. For the first time in EU legislation after the crisis, credit institutions and the securities market sectors appeared, as has already been said, the process known as Basel II places emphasis on the training of capital adapted to the activities of credit institutions, thereby ensuring protection against different types of financial and operational losses. To this objective, the European Commission presented in 2007 the relevant directives for the insurance sector, the Insurance and Reinsurance Business Taking-up and Practice Directive (Solvency II) and the Solvency II Directive (Solvency II). a proposal. The current system, i.e. Solvency I, has fulfilled its task, ultimately ensuring the regulation of this area for several decades, but it is already outdated in the post-crisis period. Solvency II With the introduction of a system, the Union aims to deepen internal integration in the insurance market and to ensure greater protection of customers and beneficiaries. Improving the international competitiveness of EU insurance and reinsurance undertakings is also the objective of regulation, in addition to modernisation. Since the 2003 Insurance Act, which currently regulates the insurance sector, both the market and the regulation have developed significantly. There has been an increase in the number of operators, an increase in the number of operators, an increase in the range of services they distribute. It is therefore necessary to renew the legislation so that market and supervisory experience accumulated since the financial crisis can be reflected in the legislation. The aim of the proposal is rightly to establish a law on insurance that meets the requirements of the age, on the one hand, the start of insurance and reinsurance business, on the other hand, how such an undertaking can start to transpose the European Union directive on its exercise, and, on the other hand, to modernise certain elements of the existing domestic legislation. It covers domestic insurance, reinsurance and directly related activities, and domestic activities of insurance and insurance operators, but does not cover certain types of assistance activities. In terms of quality requirements, supervision becomes risk-based, which is understandable somewhere. Therefore, there must be a basic regulation, but more stringent supervision activities than higher risk operations are justified. Publication, reporting and transparency are all acceptable and to be supported. Similarly, it is right to develop specific rules for cross-border financial groups and to manage them in a coherent way from a supervisory point of view. Therefore, cross-border supervision is also possible. The rules on insurance intermediaries are presented in a separate book. These rules are based on the rules of the Insurance Mediation Directive. It may not be necessary to talk too much about insurance mediation in a parliamentary debate on its own, but, at the same time, if we look at the consumer, whom we want to protect by virtue of the law, who is in the most direct relationship, we can see that insurance intermediaries are, by their number, those who maintain the most direct relationship with consumers, so that their activities can significantly affect consumer protection in the right or the wrong direction. [[16.20]] So for my part, I consider it appropriate to have a separate book on the rules on insurance mediation, and the rules follow the aspects of the Insurance Mediation Directive. Among the increased tasks of the Hungarian National Bank? Is that correct? This will be included, but it will also be a regulatory goal to limit administrative burdens to the necessary extent, which is also not a disadvantage. In accordance with previous rules, it is still possible to set up an insurance and reinsurance undertaking in the form of a cooperative, the rules of which are further clarified in the presentation. It sets the level of the financial contribution necessary for the establishment of the cooperative and prohibits the inclusion of intangible assets as non-cash contributions. It allows the members of the cooperative to elect a member of the board or of the supervisory board who is not a member of the cooperative. This is a kind of professional support, it is an opportunity for professional reinforcement, because it is not certain that among the members who form a cooperative, there is necessarily the expertise needed to carry out such a management and supervision task, so it is a sensible and useful addition to the regulation. Does the former insurance law essentially regulate the operation of mutual insurance associations in the same way, do you take into account - correctly? changes in the civil code and changes in the specific insurance rules. The law lays down the basic rules for the continuation, modification and termination of the authorised activities of the supervisory authority of the insurance and reinsurance undertaking. This is also essential for protecting consumers, as consumers can also be protected from the side of the operation to receive good service, but the most basic consumer protection is to ensure that their money is not lost; this item can serve. It lays down rules on the reorganisation and liquidation of insurance undertakings, lists the notification obligations of the insurance undertaking in detail and sets out the powers of supervision to control; this may be a step towards legal certainty. The insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall also record the payment of a supervisory fee for supervision. This is an interesting, new element of regulation, because it is realistic that, in relation to whom supervision has more and more to do with the problems of its operation, it should not be entirely without consequences. So if the supervision has to deal with a company more than once because of the problems, then if not in the form of a penalty, but in the form of a supervisory fee, there should be a sign of that. It is also very right to lay down general governance frameworks for insurance companies' management systems. It also lays down rules on valuation of assets and liabilities, technical provisions, own funds, Minimum Capital Requirement, which is a major safety issue in terms of operation. Have we known this slogan for a long time that it's an insurance policy? security, that is true if the insurance company itself can operate with adequate security. It lays down prudent expectations which require insurers to invest the assets in the best interests of the clients, to properly match investments and liabilities and to pay due attention to financial risks such as liquidity and concentration risk. The law also regulates the rules on the registration of assets and the issue of liability for the correctness of those provisions. This is one of the key elements of the financial crisis that emerged in America in 2007-2008 that responsibility for correctness has disappeared. Therefore, certification agencies have also issued a good certificate for companies that have long since met the conditions for prudent operation. So if this is in Hungarian legislation early, that is very right. As a positive and as an innovation of the proposal, the supervision of cross-border financial groups is clearly positive under EU operating conditions. It can be supported that the plan divides insurance associations into small insurance companies, those below HUF 300 million and those above. Were intermediaries separated from insurance companies included in the draft law? Is that correct? In this area, it is a significant change that current plural agents, who were independent insurance intermediaries, are now considered as dependent insurance intermediaries. At the same time, the rules on entitlement to commission are well described in the law, so the insurance intermediary also receives a more legitimate operating framework. How does it depend on your client-friendly presentation? We have a sense of absence here. In our view, it is necessary to strengthen consumer protection, in particular in the area of tightening up claims settlement deadlines. So general operation, which is part of the financial guarantee, is carefully, basically in line with EU legislation, well described in the new Insurance Act, but we want to strengthen the deadline for settlement of claims. In view of the fact that the draft legislation has been discussed in society over the past period, and that professional organisations have not found a point that would have been completely deplorable, so the aim and content of the proposal is agreed by the MSZP faction and we can support the adoption of the law taking into account the amendments to consumer protection. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-11-118	Thank you very much, Congressman Józsa. I ask whether someone from the KDNP Group wishes to present their group's position. [[For signal:]] They're signaling no. Then I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, the Jobbik... [[Dr. László György Lukács: Instead I will be László Lukács.]] László Lukács, got it. Then the position of the Jobbik Group will be presented by Mr László Lukács.
u2014-11-11-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult to avoid this atmosphere, which has prevailed here in this room, because some people here have read what they have to say about the bill at least as much as they do in our area with a good glass of arsenic water, so it is very difficult to avoid this atmosphere, especially the fact that the draft law is known from the beginning of October, and here we have talked more about the fact that it has been a social debate. Like, was I curious about the way it was? Analogly? the government is having breakfast with the Banking Association, and when they are having breakfast with the Association of Insurance, and after October 2nd, what breakfasts could have been eaten during this short period of time, and how the bill of the Association of Insurance or any other professional organization before us would have been choked on; figuratively speaking, they might not have been able to spit or spit. And the other thing that occurred to me was that we were constantly talking about things, although the bill itself was quite professional, but we were talking about things here that the voters sent us to represent their affairs, which an ordinary voter might not be able to look over and learn on the other hand. We can safely admit to ourselves, we are talking about 200 pages of material that is still not clear to insurance companies themselves, but regardless, this material needs to be done. Perhaps the primary and most important deficiency that I have found is the social debate and the way we are discussing this legislation, and it looks about as if it were one of the most insignificant laws, and we are spending so much energy on the debate itself. [[16.30]] It is worth seeing in the insurance market that it is not as insignificant as it is being degraded here in the debate. The current market situation shows that there are close to 12 million active contracts, 11 million 927 thousand active contracts, and this results in an annual fee revenue of approximately HUF 197 billion. So I think that we are talking about a large enough market and a large segment that is serious, which requires both social consultation and preparation. I, in search of it, could not find either a consultation or a more serious debate. The positions were not known. It is important that we also know the position of insurance companies, because there have been a great deal of changes since the last law in 2003. In the same way, insurance companies also went through the path that citizens had to take, and from some common experience it could have created a regulation that not only repeats Solvency II in a monotonous way and in a way that is compatible with it, but could have included the specific rules on Hungarian conditions, such as consumer protection rules; it could have included specific rules on insurance products in Hungary, but I will tell you what we were thinking about here. So I think that it should have been given a much more emphasis, whether during the presentation or even here in the opening expo, on what professional bodies, what associations, what associations have represented, and what they are proposing on this basis. After all, their opinions are important, not on the same side. Therefore, with regard to the particular aspect of the law, we can safely say that the MNB supervision seems even good; it is now a given institution, we cannot do anything about it, since the MNB exercises supervision according to the good law amendment of the past time. The question is, when we are talking about prudent regulation and farming, whether the MNB, who spends on castles, who buys luxury office buildings, or who is involved in foundational matters, will act as a credible supervisory body against insurance companies. I think the MNB should consider its own role. What is right, however, is the transposition of consumer protection rules, but there is also something to be improved in this area, and it is also possible to agree with the idea of the socialists that there are, indeed, deadlines and deadlines for settling claims, which should indeed be refined. But compared to that, we can say that in consumer protection it is right that the third-country insurance company also has its branch licence subject to supervision. On the other hand, the clarification of the concept of "leading positions," the description of the job and its liability rules are also the right and the right way forward. What concerns official supervision is one-on-one Solvency II. A lot of this is not, however, possible under the directive. It was also exemplary and very important, it has long been waiting for you to clarify the washed line between addicts and independent agents, since this did not work entirely in real life before. It was precisely one of the areas that has practically been consumed, overtaken by time and change since the 2003 legislation. In view of these details, we can also make further criticisms. For example, it is a completely lifelike criticism, since it may even be remembered by the present Members that, at the time of the distribution of insurance services and products, a well-known insurance undertaking had an opportunity in which he offered to people insurance against speeding, which was otherwise told by court decisions that it was completely moral. After all, insurance cannot protect against something that is a legal disadvantage which undermines the state's authority's action, the social confidence in the authority's action. There is no rule here either, and it seems to me that the lex KÖBE has not been built in in this regard; it is also not against the law to redistribute such a product or an insurance service in breach of good morals. I believe that this must be excluded, and this must be put in this way, so that it cannot otherwise be a property of the product or a way of distribution which is contrary to good morals, as this is ruining the enforcement of the legislation. The other is 138. In Section 2 of this Article, the protection of secrets. In terms of protection of secrets, it opens up a fairly wide range of bodies and individuals who can learn about secrets. However, it correctly introduces a restriction in the way of getting to know you, which may provide for the possibility that these insurance secrets and, where appropriate, the client's own secrets, which relate to, for example, his health data, should not be known to others, by unauthorised persons, such as in court, criminal, criminal or other civil proceedings. So it is absolutely important to think about what other restrictions we can impose and how they can be limited. Of course, the restriction applies not to exclude data from the State and public bodies, but to companies which may be subject to abuse in enforcement, or, where appropriate, from customers or individuals who could abuse it. The other, which is extremely important, is the issue of informing customers. The bill contains very good rules on how to, how to, and how to fully inform customers. However, the question is whether this is going to happen, whether it can be realized in reality at all. This is something that the MNB will have to focus more on, in order to make sure that these customer information is implemented, and that, in fact, customers are informed according to the Annex, i.e. according to the Annex to the bill and the principles laid down in the bill itself. For example, a perfect tool is the means or opportunity to buy a test when the MNB itself can enter and act as a customer or as a potential customer and check the information about the service. What is more interesting is that all along, with regard to information, it has been the introduction of a completely new legislation, and this circle has not been completely renewed. All that's happened is he's been put in a different place. However, it is absolutely necessary to place the brokerage activity under much closer supervision than previously and in the bill, as, moreover, the activities have been subject to stronger controls than life insurance. The other thing I'd like to talk about, and I'm sorry if my hand is leaning towards me here, as a former practicing lawyer for me, legal protection insurance was an interesting and neurological point. Do not think that I am campaigning here for lawyers or chambers of lawyers, but there are a number of issues to be clarified in the area of legal protection insurance, and, for example, during social consultation, we should have consulted insurance and legal protection providers and service providers in order to get to know their data, their success data and their results. It is also necessary to see that, when concluding a legal protection insurance contract, customers conclude a 20-30-page contract for their future legal representation or for any legal protection service, while, for example, the lawyer is able to conclude a contract for the case under a two-to-three-page fact-sheet and commission contract. And by the way, the practice shows that there are not nearly as good statistics in the field of legal protection, and that they do not perform nearly as well as individual lawyers or law firms. In any case, if you like, they also make the situation a little worse for consumers, because while a lawyer has statistics that can be specifically judged, such data and success data are not available in legal protection insurance. While a lawyer on one side has to be responsible for the activities of a chamber, it is subject to completely different rules regarding legal protection insurance. There is a complicated background and it is not possible to know this activity as well as otherwise the legal services. So it is absolutely necessary for me to rethink the legal protection services at a later stage, precisely so that, on the one hand, by listening to the bar of lawyers and by conflicting with the arguments of the providers of legal protection insurance, and, on the other hand, by comparing the experience of the courts or, where appropriate, the administrative authorities, it is possible to form a crystal clear opinion. The other and the last of these interesting points of criticism are the initiation of liquidation. The bill said that we should take away from the client the initiative of liquidation and liquidation of companies, so that customers cannot practice them abusively. In the current enforcement, it is very difficult to imagine a situation where someone has the financial potential to take on such a liquidation himself. So I think it was unviable to say that, by the way, it was abused by someone or any layer of society. I believe that this is a consumer protection restriction and not a consumer-friendly measure in the bill. So I strongly suggest that we expand this circle and bring back the possibility of liquidation, and return it to civilians in this case as well. [[16.40]] And in any case, the postword here in the debate must be what Tamás Lábády, otherwise an excellent scientist, has said, and this is a two-decade finding that the legislation on the regulation of insurance contracts is on the move around the world. This can therefore be seen as valid at the moment, as foreign legislation is also in a continuous change, which requires continuous monitoring, and it is essential to carry out appropriate impact assessments in relation to each new provision in the draft. I do not see these impact assessments, nor can anyone who is involved in the debate obtain them. Without it, it is difficult to give a reassuring opinion on the bill. However, it can be stated that there is a fairly wide scope for the legislators of the legislation to fill in this leeway, which is in the creation of the new law, but on the one hand it is also a responsibility. The responsibility is that if you do not carry out appropriate preliminary studies, a proper debate, and there is no proper position that you have considered, and the current foreign regulations and foreign trends do not appear properly, then this legislation will certainly not be worth much, and we will continue to follow market trends. It is therefore absolutely necessary to monitor these international experiences, but also the changes that have taken place in the market since the last law. I believe that there are virtues, advantages, strengths of the bill, but there are some shortcomings that will definitely have to be addressed. I believe that the debate and the subsequent process will be suitable for eliminating these, and for putting down legislation and a draft that reflects both consumer-friendly and market-based processes, and points somewhere to the future, so as to monitor this continuous development, but at some level we will also see it. So a much wiser one, and I think it would have needed a much more well-founded bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-11-120	Thank you very much, Congressman Luke. The LMP Group has indicated that it does not wish to comment. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, so you obviously don't want to comment. We don't have a two-minute comment application. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to the speaker, Mr Cseresnyés Péter, Fidesz.
u2014-11-11-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am more optimistic than my fellow Member, László Lukács, on the whole bill, on the proposal, because he said that this bill was so? If I understand correctly? It's like drinking water on a glass of arsenic. I think it's because it's hard for people who do this, this huge material, to look at or look at. You have proved yourself, my fellow Member, that you have looked at it and expressed meaningful thoughts in your meaningful contribution, so let us assume that the experts, those who deal with it, have done the same thing, and that this proposal came to us after such preparatory work. I have read this material, and I think it is true, that many work and well-thought-out work are the result of this proposal that we have before us. Because this proposal is also important, and it is important to adapt this law to needs, to age, because it is a very important activity affecting our lives, because when an insurance representative visits us, the first thing he refers to when he wants to draw attention to is the right to take out an insurance policy, it is a risk itself. Possibility of sudden illness, unexpected accident, possibly unexpected material damage, for example, recent natural disasters, accidents caused by negligence such as the red sludge disaster. In fact, there are risks in our lives that we do not see in advance, we cannot calculate with them, so with insurance we can alleviate the inconveniences, the difficulties caused by difficult moments. But who will protect us from the risks in the financial sphere? What is the guarantee that an insurance undertaking can always pay quickly and fully, and if it does not, so if this case exists, then there is an adequate reserve from which the client can obtain money? A guarantee can be a good insurance law, a good legislation. The insurance market has already been regulated by law, which has already been adapted to EU legislation. However, as stated in the speaker's speech, it is now necessary to renew the legislation on insurance in order to reflect market and supervisory experience since the financial crisis. On the one hand, we are talking about EU harmonisation, but on the other hand, on the pretext of this proposal, it is important that customers, consumers, are protected from possible abuses by a stronger web. As in the case of the bank's authentic, insurance companies may also be forced by a pushy agent to impose an insurance scheme on an uninformed client that otherwise does not meet its real needs or financial opportunities. We all know that the insurance agent's job is to bring the numbers and offer as many bandages as possible. There is a competitive situation within the insurance company, which also pushes the agent to enter into a contract at all costs, as far as possible. This behaviour can be explained by the insurance side, but it is also our job to represent people to minimise the client's vulnerability. Even if it is known that there is not a financial risk in the insurance market as in the case of bank loans, but of course there are exceptions when, for example, the loan is linked to life insurance. Therefore, attention and strong market surveillance are very justified. Now allow me to highlight some important issues and changes from this undoubtedly extensive piece of legislation. I would first like to talk about the governance system. It doesn't matter who's holding our money, who's handling it. We have often felt as a client in the insurance sector that insurance matters are not always handled by the most suitable persons. Although we obviously do not ask about it in one administration, we may often feel that there is no adequate financial education, an awareness of the salesman, who is offering us an insurance, quasi-financial product. With a lower level of responsibility, it might not be a problem, but is it expected? and is this required by the proposal? that persons with a particularly important function must have professional competence and business reliability. Therefore, the draft requires that only those persons with a non-criminal record, professional qualifications and business reliability, at least 5 years of insurance or corporate management and management experience and higher education qualifications in the financial and economic field of the public administration can be appointed. As regards the assets of insurance undertakings, investment rules containing quantitative restrictions in Solvency I should be removed and replaced by the principle of the so-called prudent person. Does the proposal also lay down more precise rules for lower level managers, but for smaller insurers? As it was said? Of course, the law allows derogations. I would also like to say a few words about insurance brokers. The proposal deals with insurance intermediaries in a separate book. Obviously, my fellow Members know this market. These actors are important because they are certainly the ones who meet the client personally, and the offers of financial institutions or insurance companies in their portfolio are made personalised to customers. An important change in the intermediary regime is that a multiple agent previously considered as an independent insurance intermediary will be a dependent insurance intermediary after the entry into force of the law, resulting in changes in operational and, in particular, liability rules. As far as I'm concerned, the dependent insurance broker is the agent, while the independent insurance broker is the plural agent and the broker who represents the client. The proposal will continue to allow for the establishment and operation of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in cooperative form, as has already been said. It is an important point that the proposal does not link the function of cooperative membership to the board of directors or the supervisory board. In this case you can deviate from the Ptk. the relevant rules, because the activities of these cooperatives are limited to insurance and property insurance. [[16.50]] Thus, they are not responsible for establishing a social solidarity fund that provides benefits to cooperative members and their relatives. The proposal also addresses the concept of a branch in a third country, thus following the situation arising from real practice for the safety of customers. The proposal increases transparency with regard to third country legislation. By way of derogation from the branch of an insurance undertaking operating in the country, the branch of a third country insurance or reinsurance undertaking may only, as has already been said several times, be established or carry out its activities with the authorisation of supervision. The possibility of on-the-spot consultation and the obligation to have a Hungarian translation are also included in the regulation on the grounds of compliance with the principles of transparency, security and EU market protection. A few words about the insurance-insurance relationship. Insurance and reinsurance undertakings shall establish, in order to ensure sound and safe operation, a system that effectively assists them in fulfilling their duties and obligations. According to the size and activity of the insurance undertaking, it requires the performance of the functions related to the content of the insurance activity, such as internal control and risk management. The draft also includes an obligation to be independent of each other, but small insurers are also exempted from these provisions. It is an important rule that all activities may be outsourced, with the exception of risk taking and the conclusion of a reinsurance contract. However, the proposal lays down additional requirements for the outsourcing of key tasks to protect customers. Let me say a few words about the security and freedom of investment. Like all sound insurance laws, the current proposal sets out rules for the valuation of assets and liabilities, technical provisions, own funds, minimum capital requirements. The provision provides that the assets are to be invested in the best interests of the clients and that due consideration should be given to financial risks such as liquidity and concentration risk. At the same time, the freedom of insurance companies is also increasing. In the future, the insurance undertaking should not be obliged to invest in specific categories of assets or be subject to a prior authorisation for supervision. The insurance undertaking remains responsible for the outsourced activity and should not jeopardise the proper functioning and interests of customers, effective supervisory work. However, the insurance undertaking must keep a clear record of its assets and raise a sufficient amount of security capital in case of trouble. This is an almost natural assumption of transparency in the records kept on the activity, as Mr Józsa said in his speech. This also applies to the annual accounts. It is not possible for an insurance company to become insolvent; then suddenly, the documents disappear, which would lead to a conclusion as to who made the mistake, who was to blame. Allow a few words on the content of the terms of the contract. The proposal also regularises the content of the contracts, setting out binding content. This is particularly important for life insurance contracts. Under the new rules, the distribution of insurance products is not subject to authorisation. If the insurance undertaking detects an infringement in the circumstances of the mediation during the mediation of the insurance product, it shall take action to eliminate the infringement. For all products to be extended, the insurance undertaking shall draw up a product plan. However, this rule does not apply to small insurance companies because of a later exception. Insurance and business secrets. The proposal lays down rules for the protection of insurance secrets and business secrets. In the future, it is not possible for an insurance undertaking to hold back information on the grounds that it is an insurance or business secret. However, the data collection and transmission required to fulfil the reporting obligation under an agreement with the Government of the United States of America should be without prejudice to existing sectoral confidentiality rules. In the case of Casco insurances affecting millions, the law also provides the central possibility of data processing, given that in this case the vehicle is the central element of the register. The proposal lays down strict rules on the processing of such cases, in particular as regards purpose-boundness and the duration of the processing. The next area is expert advice, which I would like to say a few words about. The insurance consulting activity? as a registered and regulated activity? will be removed from the new draft Bit. The fundamental reason for this is that the institution has not proven itself in this form, but the Mediation Directive already has a multiple impact on advice for each category of intermediaries, thus the separation will become increasingly difficult in the future. That's why change. A few words about reorganisation and liquidation. We hope that there will not be many examples of winding up an insurance undertaking in the future, but if they do, it is important to establish the usual procedure and supervisory body. In order to address the shortcomings of previous legislation, the draft also provides for effective redress rules in the event of liquidations. According to the proposal, in such cases, the Hungarian National Bank acting as a supervisory authority has the possibility to transfer an insurance holding which is no longer authorised to operate for the benefit of the entire risk community. Thus, the insurance relationship of the client can be maintained with unchanged content, and the risk is not lost in the event of a problem. However, the law states that customers not affected by the transfer of stocks may not be placed in a worse position than before in respect of the resources available to their claims. It is a significant innovation compared to previous rules to maintain the temporary coverage of the compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance contract in the event of liquidation of the insurance undertaking, giving the customer sufficient time to conclude a new contract. The law also lays down rules on the order of payment, which give priority to the payment of damage resulting from an accident, illness or personal injury. Is it a new rule that, in the event of liquidation, in the case of certain claims, in the first instance, only up to a certain threshold? 30 million forints? the acquirer may pay the claims arising from the insurance contract. The amount above this threshold shall not be lost, but shall be placed back in the course of the payment, thereby ensuring more effective compensation for victims of personal injury. Overall, I think that the new law adapts properly to the changed market environment, that insurance companies also have an interest in improving their confidence so far. However, it is important that the insurance undertaking and the insured person are equal partners, with mutual and mutual interest, but at the same time with mutual respect, so that the insurance undertaking carries out its activities. If you agree with the above objectives, and I have said the same in most of the comments, please support the bill, the proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-11-122	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Cseresnyés. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, points out that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2014-11-11-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is rarely as easy for the author to do so in connection with this bill, since there was no criticism from either the party of the government or the speakers of the opposition parties. I would like to thank the governing parties for having read and interpreted the law so meaningfully and for the fact that two members of the Fidesz group have also expressed their views in detail with their support. I would also like to thank the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, István Józsa, for his professional contributions and comments, and I can promise that we will take into account the professional opinion of the representative of Jobbik in the future during the legislative process and, of course, also in the future. Even if he did not say that he was in favour of the bill, his comments will, of course, be taken into account, because in a number of cases, such as legislation on the protection of rights, this cannot be included in the bill or in EU rules, for example, to allow civil society organisations to take an eradication initiative. [[17.00]] On the other hand, I would like to reassure the better speaker that the Ministry has complied with all professional discussions, and has also been in constant consultation with six professional organisations. Mabis is the most and the longest. The Association of Hungarian Insurance Corporations also fully agrees with the submitted bill. So the professional consensus, the professional support behind the bill is maximum. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your speeches and for the support of the law during any in-depth debate and, of course, during the vote on the law. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-11-124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Are we going to take the floor after the agenda? I'd like to see Congressman Sallai Benedek come over to your bench. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. So today, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP: When will the computers be rebooted? It's an address. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-11-11-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Parliament, Whether it was shale gas or Paks in the past, LMP's consistent position on Hungary's energy demand was relatively predictable? One of the most important tasks of its supply would be to first assess what can be saved, what can be reduced by energy efficiency, energy modernisation improvements, and what is at all possible for us not to use it. This preventive approach is what described LMP in these debates. This is important because we have consistently advocated a much greater impact on rural development, much greater strategic results would be achieved by allowing the government, with as much resources as possible, in rural households, in rural populations, the building insulation of family houses, the mechanical modernisation of buildings; if it were to enable more and more people to make use of energy efficiency improvements as much as possible, the possibility of opening up in their households the possibility of building a background and infrastructure for renewable energy sources. This is not only an option because households are one of the largest potential users, but also because this approach, this approach, would provide an opportunity for public institutions and municipalities to use new, modern technologies. Compared to what we are destined for Paks, compared to what the government is planning for strategic developments in different directions, the only source, unfortunately of very small, billion-dollar magnitude, is what the Hungarian government wanted to provide for the transition of households from revenues from carbon trading, for which the Hungarian government recently announced a tender. It is certainly well known to everyone that this support was available for a very, very short period of only two days. At the time, we were told that computers had stopped, that there was a great deal of pressure, because the framework was limited, and because of the very high demand for the public, the overload of the IT system could not withstand the submission of these requests. The problem and the problem is that there are so few goals in which we agree, so little in which we would go in the same direction, and when there is such a thing, then some external obstacle prevents the government from moving forward. This was a good initiative, and it would be vital that the old Saratov refrigerators become a lot of A+ refrigerators. It would be a matter of life if old energy-eating technologies could finally be released to households by replacing freezers and the possibility of purchasing much more modern household appliances for much more sustainable energy use should finally be launched. Computers are down. I would like to ask the representatives of the government in the direction when the computers will be launched again. When will there be an opportunity to re-create funds for this? While in the 2015 budget there is more than ten billion funds for sports concepts, there is a ten billion-dollar scale for the development of Hungaroring, while the funds we provide to the people are set up with such a billion-billion-dollar tender funds. And that's obviously a concern. It is not about the voters of LMP, it is about all Hungarian households. Your individual voters, who have provided their individual representatives with their mandates, and now it would be possible to get resources back to them. These are the money that would actually get to the families and cause real overhead cuts. We didn't believe in the reduction of the rent, we said it wasn't the reduction of the rent that we didn't have to pay, it was the one we didn't use. We will reduce the overhead if we reduce our energy consumption. These tender schemes, these tendering schemes, would have been an opportunity to do so. I'd like to help you with that. At the same time, computers have stopped and we do not see when this program will be continued, when the government will be able to reopen it, when it will be able to restart computers that would allow the population to submit as many new applications as possible in this respect. One more thing, though. In addition to the need not only to start computers, but also to upload these funds in terms of revenue from the 2015 budget and CO2 trading, and to provide as much resources and money as possible for this development of families. With respect, I ask the government and the representatives of the government to partially create their financial conditions and, in part, to create the IT background that will give the government the opportunity to receive new applications. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-11-126	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next four-day meeting of the autumn session is scheduled to take place between 17 and 20 November. I thank you for your work, and I wish you a restful evening. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:07 p.m.]]
