u2014-06-30-0	Dear Parliament, This is the opening of the Parliament's summer special session. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr Nándor Gúr will be here to assist me in leading this meeting. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament of the death of our former fellow Member Miklós Useful. Miklós József was a member of the Hungarian Democratic Forum from 1988, and became a member of the presidency of the party's organization in Buda. In 1989 he took part in the organisation of the Christian Democratic People's Party, became the head of the party's election office and then the attorney general. In 1990 he entered the National Assembly on the list of KDNP Pest county. He was a Member of Parliament for two cycles, until July 1997 in the colours of KDNP, followed by an independent representative. In the first term, he became Chairman of the Environment Committee and later Vice-President. He also worked on the municipal, social and immunity committees. Miklós Useful has been vice president of KDNP since 1991 for three years, then from the end of 1996 until 1999. From 2000 he was a member of the presidency of the National Association of Political Prisoners, and until his death he was political in the Movement for Jobbik Hungary. We remember a respected representative of Christian-Conservative politics. I would ask my fellow Members to pay tribute to the memory of our deceased fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, On this day, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the LMP, spoke before the agenda: "Beyond the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. " Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-06-30-1	Mr. Speaker, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Government, As a opposition politician, it is partly my job to keep an eye on government speeches and draw attention to those that may differ somewhat from the government's promise and what it has to say so far. I was surprised to hear Mr.Péter Szijjártó's speech on the Economic Radio last week, in which he said that Hungary's reindustrialisation requires serious foreign investments. To this end, the system of benefits for foreign companies will be simplified. So far, 14-16 signatures from 2-3 different ministries were needed to enable a company to issue cash support based on individual government decisions, which can now only be done in two steps. And they want to enter into new strategic agreements with foreign investors during the summer. The reason I am concerned about this revelation and this intention of the government is that, unlike all previous government speeches and previous objectives, this has completely interrupted communication with the tradition of mentioning the opportunities, the chances of strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises. In his speech, he has already abandoned the previous plan to put Hungarian businesses in position as a key government objective. This is a big problem in many ways, economically and politically. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is about the same economic policy as that represented by the Gyurcsány Cabinet and the Bajnai Cabinet and the previous governments. You always say that the Hungarian people have given an opinion on the governance and direction by giving you such honorable support to Parliament, and now it seems that with this speech they are fully following the traditions of this. The admission of foreign capital, the promotion of foreign capital, is an economically flawed trend, which has been demonstrated over the past 25 years. One of the biggest mistakes of the change of regime was perhaps this shock-like privatisation, which resulted in not only 1.5 million jobs disappearing in Hungary in a few years, but also becoming one of the most open countries most dependent on the global market in the region. At the moment, economic research on the region proves that the share of foreign investment is by far the highest in the entire region. This is important not only because someone has the heart of a nation, but because it is important because it is economically the worst direction that can be represented politically. At the moment, almost half of GDP comes from companies of this type, while multinational companies and foreign investors contribute only a tenth of their contribution to Hungarian employment. At the same time, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those with employment sizes ranging from 6 to 50, would have an outstanding potential, a high priority opportunity and their support situation is becoming increasingly sadder and more worrying. Overall, the direction of such a priority foreign investment creates a concentrated, centralised economic development, and causes the problem throughout the country that it requires mobilisation, mobile movement of the workforce, and can only create a few hundred or more jobs in a small area, while giving up the government's decision on small and medium-sized enterprises in many small regions. We continue to believe that the construction and development of small and medium-sized enterprises is a right direction. In the second cycle of the Orbán Cabinet, he admitted that internal capital training is a top priority and that setting up the economy on its own is a priority national goal. This is a step that we want to take back the direction of employment and economic development to bring in foreigners, fully admitting and recognising the failure to do so, this has not been achieved. The direction is very, very worrying, that economic development directions can enter the country, which are not only polluting, but are developing a Chinese-type economy in Hungary, which is practically exploiting human resources. In the meantime, small and medium-sized enterprises do not receive facilitations, they do not receive simplifications, they collect taxes at nearly two dozen addresses, and the NAV is also the most damaging of them. We feel this direction is very, very wrong, and we would very much like to see any evidence of any deviation from it from the government, and I would be happy to have a reassuring answer to that. I would ask the responder to thank him if he didn't come up with what his support for the LMP and what the other government did from 2002 to 2010, because that's not what we're looking for, but how this situation can be dealt with. Thank you very much. [[13.10]]
u2014-06-30-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you don't mind, I'll start with the LMP, since your concern for small and medium-sized enterprises seems a little uncredited to me. Although you have not been a Member in the last four-year term, I will make some amendments, which have been made by the LMP, for example, to the 2013 Budget Act. For example, he wanted to raise corporate tax in the SME sector from 10 percent to 19 percent, raising the car tax [[Dr. András Schiffer: Very good!]] and would have eliminated the discount on commercial gas oil, putting carriers in a difficult position, but would have raised product charges, introduced green tax, property tax [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] and introduced the three-key sja, the highest key of which would be 45 percent. This would have been your policy to support the small and medium-sized enterprise sector. Instead, Fidesz did the following - despite their smiles. In 2010, the biggest problem for small and medium-sized enterprises was the lack of capital. With the introduction of the Széchenyi Card Programme, we accelerated its usability and discounts, facilitated the evaluation and payment process of the proposals, promoted faster access to European Union and domestic funds, introduced export promotion measures, such as the expansion of Eximbank's export financing sources and facilitated it. In 2013, the Hungarian National Bank announced the growth loan programme, with a first of 750 billion HUF and until the end of 2014 it will hand over or hand over to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in order to speed up their development in order to expand jobs. In addition, the Ministry of National Economy has announced annually from 2011 support for their investments in job creation for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The amount of aid in 2013 was six and a half times, 13 billion forints in 2011, and the same amount is available in 2014. Although the success is incomplete, we have also made progress in reducing administration, for example, the abolition of the ten taxes was one step in this direction. However, the introduction of preferential forms of taxation as well as labour market considerations and the reduction of wage burdens for disadvantaged people also helped the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in the framework of the Action Plan on the Protection of Jobs. Under the "Simple State" programme, we reduced the administrative burden on entrepreneurs by 25 percent. This does not mean that there is no task left until 2020. These will appear in the following areas. We want to strengthen the growth potential of the sector, improve the business environment and improve the availability of external funding sources. As regards EU funds for 2014-20, we have established several operational programmes, an operational programme for economic development and innovation, a competitive Central Hungary, an operational programme for territorial and urban development, all designed to improve SMEs' ability to finance, create and maintain investment. The first priority of the operational programme for economic development and innovation, which will improve the competitiveness of SMEs, will also be highlighted. Honourable Congressman, I think that both the government's activities and decisions over the past four years and the four years ahead, in particular the promotion, acceleration and efficiency of the use of EU funds, will all serve to strengthen the Hungarian economy and, in particular, to increase the key role of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The government will be working on it for the next four years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-4	Mr Csaba Tóth, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda: "There was once a City Park. " Here you go.
u2014-06-30-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The City Park has an old, mysterious memory, a grave. The tombstone had only one inscription written in Latin, only one in Latin, meaning "Fuit, " in Hungarian. In the grave rests Jakab Toporczi Horváth, a late lawyer. The man who left his entire estate for charity two hundred years ago asked the council of the city of Pest to be buried in the City Park, today's City Park, in the then city forest, and to mark his tomb with a tombstone marked " Fuit. " The City Park was built 200 years ago as the world's first planned public park, a planned public park that can be visited by all. To this day, this nearly 100-hectare area is not only a favourite park for the metropolitan people, but also for the visitors, where tens of thousands of people go to sports every day, to relax, to walk or just to walk a dog. This public park seems to be over. At the end of last year, the mayor of the district submitted a bill, which was then passed by Parliament with record speed in a few days. The point of this bill is that City Park will be put into free asset management for 99 years to an asset management company. This company has licenses like no one else in this country. This company can build whatever it wants, wherever it wants, cut down as many trees as it wants, or remove as many green surfaces as it wants. It is not true that the installation will increase the size of the green surface. The grove is not a strudel that can be provided when construction begins. It is a pity that no one was asked, not the Zuglós, not the Metropolitans, before the decision was made. It is no coincidence that the protests of civilians and professional organisations have been raised ever since. At the time when this bill came before Parliament, we had not yet seen what the purpose was. It has become clear since the planned museum district was to be located there. The ideas published show that they want to build 120,000 square meters of net land in the City Park with a building. [[13.20]] Just to compare, this 120,000 square meters is exactly the same size as Arena Plaza, so a block of buildings of the size of the Liget would be in total. It is planned to be a 40 - meter - tall building, which corresponds to a 10-story house. If the construction starts, the Liget will cease to be a public park. I mean, there's gonna be parades and utility trenches all over the place. Of course, outrage is not a coincidence. On April 5, there was a major movement in the City Park, where more than 5,000 people believed in saving the Liget. These thousands of people confirmed this with their votes the next day, because it is no coincidence that the individual parliamentary representatives around the Liget have won everywhere, as I have won in Zuglo. A few weeks ago, I thought that we should give the new Parliament the opportunity to override this wrong decision, to give Members the opportunity to revisit the matter of the Liget. Therefore, I submitted a proposal for a parliamentary decision, but this was not even included in the series of articles. The purpose of the decision proposal was to remain the public park of Városliget, because Budapest needs more green space than to destroy the existing ones. We also wanted the government to look at the possibility that the planned museum district could be implemented in other out-of-use places, without destroying the green surface and the parks. For example, there is the unused part behind the Rákosköző railway station or the Nyugati railway station, and there could be many other areas in the capital that would be more suitable. We also wanted the government to develop a concept involving stakeholders to make the City Park more attractive, greener, cleaner and safer. Today, the Metropolitan Assembly may decide the fate of the City Park at just these moments, forcing it into 108 agenda points, in a few minutes they will eliminate the City Park. The City Park that our ancestors created two hundred years ago for public purposes. The City Park that we have a duty to preserve for posterity. It is not too late, let us protect our successors from being reminded of the Városliget, where only a Latin will be speaking, that there was a fuit, in Hungarian. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-30-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In contrast to what you have said here in the last five minutes, Városliget will be renewed, there will be a lot more green surface, instead of the 60 percent so far, there will be 65 percent green surface for all Budapesters in Városliget. And it will not be a neglected public park in bad condition for Budapest, but a very high-quality green park for a developing city, which is blessed with many green surfaces, besides which the buildings will be renewed and new functions that have been missing in many cases in Budapest. So it is not true for you or others to claim that the green surface ratio would decrease, this is contradicted by the figures set out in the plans, in the legislation, in the regulatory plan, the proportion of green surfaces will increase from 60 to 65 percent here in the City Park. So there will be a lot more room for all those who want to go to the grass, green and park in Budapest and around it. If you look at just how many cars go through City Park today, there on Kós Károly promenade, 15 thousand cars puff it, sometimes faster, sometimes slower, crossing the diagonal of the City Park. If this disappears, it will in itself mean a noticeable environmental load reduction for the City Park. So the environment will be more natural. When this road was built, it might have been necessary to protest when the natural unity of the entire City Park was cut in half by such a rather crowded road, both its unity ceased and the environmental load within the City Park increased. We also try to eliminate this mistake, making the environment more natural and healthier. Of course, you and your fellow socialists may have other ideas about different developments, perhaps it is the real estate problems of György Hunvald that come to their minds when it comes to development. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: What's that got to do with it?]] which were indeed not in the public interest. But it may also be that your portfolio in Budapest starts from a failed government quarter investment, where we spent a lot of money, and then it didn't turn out to be anything. You were unable to produce any tangible results there. In contrast to this, where a museum district at European level will be formed, it will have many, many museums and a lot of related investments, either in the Circus area or in the Zoo area or in the Fortress of Komárom or in Szabolcs Street, with the construction of warehouses and restoration workshops. And indeed, we trust that Hungary will have pride, not only the new National Gallery, but also the entire museum district that will be established there. How successful this is, if you look at it a little more objectively, it also shows how many applications have been submitted for the international design contest in which we are looking for the architects and architects who can create the architectural appearance of this museum district. You know, there are more than 500 entries, which can be selected for the second round. We can say that this is also very close in international terms, if you look at this magnitude or Central European region, that there have ever been so many international works for a Hungarian building complex. The international architecture offices seem to have more confidence in this project, have a better vision of this future, see progress in this, than the MSZP, which considers itself a very progressive party. But if you look around, honourable Member, or just look out of Parliament's building and see where the Museum of Ethnography operates today, in a former court building with a large aula and small courtrooms with one or two courtrooms, it is not an ideal environment for an Ethnographic Museum, for example. It was a necessity to move in here. It would be much better if we could place the collections here in a building complex built for a museum or organize the temporary exhibitions in decent conditions. It is not a good place where you are now, and we are sure that if a museum moves into a building built for a museum rather than a court building, then visitors will feel a much higher level of quality. I don't know exactly what you're protecting, because it's a large concrete parking lot that will replace most of these buildings. It is not really an urban development aspect for the Zuglós or the Budapest public, if the MSZP would preserve that in the middle of the city, on the edge of a park, a large parking lot will remain in total, and on this concrete surface, I do not know why you feel better than in a museum district at international level, in which there will be countless functions. Allow me to list these. As I said, the Museum of Ethnography would move there, rather in an environment suitable for presenting objects, the Museum of Photography appears as a new one here in Budapest. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Although there has been a lot of demand for it in recent years, and I could still list additional new functions in connection with the architecture or music house. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-8	Next, the Jobbik representative, Mr. Adam Mirkóczki, is "The Prime Minister's Dream of the Country - A Nightmare. " Here you go.
u2014-06-30-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, this year, at the beginning of the year, Sándor Pintér stated that I was reporting in order. And it seems that the Prime Minister believed this without any experience. Yesterday, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán spoke about some interesting things at the University of Public Service's clean-up. Among other things, he said a sentence that "we dreamed of this order 25 years ago. " Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of this statement, given everyday experience, we can make two statements, and I say that there are two versions. One version is that the Prime Minister has no idea what the great Hungarian reality really is, no idea what the rural people are suffering from every day of the year. The other version is that the Prime Minister is very aware of the problems in the area of public security in Hungary, but he is consciously slipping and even knowingly lying. Needless to say, one version is worse than the other. It is not possible to make such a statement that we have been waiting for this for 25 years. There may be order on the desk in the various offices of the Ministry of Interior and in the various offices of the Prime Minister's Office, but in Hungarian society there is hardly any order in the Hungarian countryside. I think everyone knows that. Of course, we can also assume that the Prime Minister is right to say such things, because where there are millions of forints to say that a relative or someone close to me's cell phone is missing, and we are sacrificing millions of forints to DNA tests, and the National Bureau of Investigation is starting to investigate cell phones, where we create a separate counter-terrorism center to protect the political apparatus, there are many different versions, so we can say that he is right. But the fact is that this is not the case in Hungary. [[13.30]] In particular, they are commonplace. It is enough to take into account only the recent days, the events of the past few weeks, where teachers are abused; where one day in three different settlements paramedics, doctors and health workers are abused; where women are raped; children are robbed daily - at national level, we talk about this phenomenon daily - where there is a daily break-in in the homes of elderly people, and in good cases there will be no tragedy; where we can talk about the fact that crimes against persons and property have been committed to an unprecedented extent. I believe that your statistics show something quite different, thanks to the unprecedented increase in the infringement threshold, but we would like to say here and here that we do not need to improve statistics, but also public security. The aim should be to increase the subjective sense of security for the average person. Your subjective sense of security. So that when I see a police officer, I don't think, as a Pavlovi reflex, why he's gonna punish me and why he's gonna pull out the yellow check, but I'm gonna think of it as a good thing he's here, because it makes me feel safe. Can it be said that we have been waiting for this order for 25 years, or would Prime Minister dare to ask who would dare to report it in any of the 3200 settlements of Hungary to an elderly, single person in any small village? I don't want to say specifics right now, I just hit my stomach: we throw the stone anywhere, and on the imaginary map that hits the village, I dares to risk that no one there would sign that the Prime Minister is right. Because we could talk about what would make Hungary normal. If we were to promote zero tolerance, like transport, in relation to crimes against persons and property, if we were to create a new police law that meets today's challenges, if we were to raise the training of police officers, improve their standards, and not read about, like, a few weeks ago, the beating of police officers in Józsefváros; if we were to reduce the default threshold from HUF 50,000 to HUF 5 000, and then there was a guarantee that there would be no unpunished crime against property, then we could talk about this 25 years ago. Now, however, we can talk about the fact that everyone in Hungary is crying back about 80 years ago, not talking about it, and we should not be listening to the Prime Minister say that there has been an unprecedented order for 25 years. You can play with words, you can say for the hundredth time that we've initiated 3,500 police officers. Put aside the number of people left the track and how many were discharged, and add to the number of people in the police force involved in money collection and crime prevention, law enforcement. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] ; it should be with the latter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra in response, please.
u2014-06-30-11	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the morning of yesterday, he took an oath at the Castle in Buda by 116 graduates of the Faculty of Law and Orders of the National University of Public Service. Before the students, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán gave a speech and said: "Today you have sworn an oath to our new Fundamental Law, the Fundamental Law with which we have once and for all closed the transitional period after Communism, which has gone too long. We have recorded in it all the values and principles we believe in, and on which, based on our best belief, we can give Hungarians a accessible and humane future. Our basic law is the foundation of our human dignity and our national freedom. You are here to protect this freedom. From this freedom comes the order of which you have sworn to defend today. You are young, you have not experienced it, but I want you to know that we dreamed of this order 25 years ago. We worked for 25 years, your parents worked for 25 years, until we managed to get Hungary here and lift it here. I ask you to protect everything your parents have worked for. " Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister said that in 2010, we put into practice the demands of law enforcement reform that people had formulated. These were the following. On the one hand, people have asked that police presence be increased and improved in the smallest settlement in the country. This required 3,500 new police officers to improve the quality of the police's technical staff. We were also asked to avoid the appearance of the police, the police, on the side of the perpetrators, not the victims. The police have been cleared. The police are free of these situations today, and the National Defence Service will take care of that. We've been thinking and implementing self-sustaining prisons. Today, 75 percent of the prisoners work in penitentiaries. We were also expected and this is what people expected, that cooperation between law enforcement agencies should be flawless. [[Constant noise in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] In the event of natural or industrial disasters. I believe that, in recent years, this flawless cooperation has been demonstrated by law enforcement agencies every day, both in the Danube flood and in the previous and in the Devecser Colontar disaster, and I thank you for that. Honourable Congressman, I reject your statements about the Prime Minister, they are completely unfounded, and I would also like to say that we are there today, and from 2010 onwards, as the second Orbán government was established on 29 May, we have found that people, the local authorities, are asking the Ministry of the Interior, asking the heads of the police to increase police numbers. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] They asked for this. You've been to the Minister of the Interior. I understand we're increasing police numbers in several settlements. If what you're saying is true, they're afraid of the police, that Pavlov's reflex means they're afraid of the police. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's right!]] Then you wouldn't have asked for it, and the local government wouldn't have asked us to increase police presence. Honourable Congressman, Your words are not true. You haven't lied in this House for the first time. [[Grumble in the benches of Jobbik.]] It is regrettable that you and the Jobbik faction regularly call for order, but never vote for it, never support the laws adopted by this House in order to achieve this order. I refer here to the Violation Act, Congressman, I refer to the law of the police, the law of the police, which you did not vote for. [[A voice from the benches of Jobbik: Salad!]] They also did not vote in favour of the budget laws which provided the resources necessary for the operation of the police. Honourable Congressman, We are determined to maintain order. More needs to be done, we know that more needs to be done to this end, both in order to lay down requirements for the staff and to improve technical conditions, and I trust and believe that the 166 senior officers who took the oath yesterday, who took an oath in the Castle of Buda, will contribute to the maintenance and further strengthening of the order in Hungary. I ask the honourable Member that if he is serious about your calling for order, he should support the government's bill for the future that will help the order. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-12	Imre Vejkey, on behalf of the KDNP, is now under the heading "Thoughts on the margin of an invitation. " Here you go.
u2014-06-30-13	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The president of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Zsolt Semjén, received a written invitation from the president of the Rainbow Foundation to the official opening ceremony of Budapest Pride at the end of June 2014. By the President, KDNP was addressed to the event despite the fact that we have already explained on several occasions that sexuality is a private matter, there is no need to make it public. Ladies and Gentlemen, Then what is the reason for this invitation? Obviously, the KDNP has been taking on the issue of Hungarians living beyond the borders of the mother country because of the Trianon peace dictatorship for decades. You can ask me how this is related to the gay case. Well, to do so, we need to look at things in a European context, where the rights and rights of people living in national minorities in the European Union are deliberately confused with the rights of newly created LGBTI - lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex - committees. In particular, in the Council of Europe, in Strasbourg, this means that the Council of Europe has abolished the main committee dealing with indigenous minorities, such as the rights of Hungarians living across the border, and has replaced the LGBTI main committee, specifically to protect the rights of LGBTI persons, so that only one subcommittee of this main committee has been set up to protect the rights of indigenous national minorities. Ladies and Gentlemen, After this European lookout, let's return to Budapest, the KDNP's relationship with Pride. Before anyone accuses KDNP of homophobia, I must point out that KDNP consistently adheres to the Christian Democratic principles that ensure the individual's freedom and privacy unabsorbed, regardless of the sexual orientation of the individual. [[13.40]] KDNP's position on Budapest Pride is also that everyone has the right to participate in this event, but, of course, also to stay away from it and its effects. KDNP also calls on Pride participants to exercise their rights to the limit until they violate the rights of others and the dignity of others. On the issue of homosexuality, Pope Francis said that if one is gay and seeks the Lord and is guided by good intentions, then who am I to judge him? Many interpret the above sentence of the Holy Father as the first Vatican step towards the propagation of gay marriage, but this interpretation is a serious misinterpretation of the facts, since the sentence is not intended to accept the relationship of the same sex, but that love of neighbor must be fully enforced. Ladies and Gentlemen, Exupéry said that man can only see well with his heart, the essential is invisible to man, because the invisible is the essence, God is himself. It seems that mankind is XX. He went blind by the century, lost his spiritual world, became mentally blind because he was embezzled. Because of all this, man suffers a thirst that cannot be extinguished with the fresh water of the well. Thus, man has a thirst beyond the biological range. Ladies and Gentlemen, Yet, today, the world has seen a powerful biological outlook, and spiritual culture has vanished. Where does all this lead? To satisfy primary biological needs, to empower a culture without a soul. People were liberated from the weight of the soul, or, in other words, they took the soul from the people, the soul from which their faces had been glowing, which had previously made their human dignity golden, and only the body and the mathematics remained. That's how we got to the sex cult and its various culprits. Ladies and Gentlemen, I ask the Bible question of thousands of years - is life more than food? This question is particularly important when we know that the created world in which we live is deriving from day to day from the point of view of its external values, losing its value, but our human soul, which has an inner value, is growing and increasing from day to day. The values that can be collected in the soul are the values for which we are worth being human. But if these values cease, or even the last man, was liberated from the soul, then the world will end, because food has become more than life. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's not let the created world degrade like this, let's not let it be destroyed like this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-14	Antal Rogán, Head of the Group, Fidesz, also spoke before the agenda: "Justice must be done for those who have foreign exchange credit. " Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-06-30-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the second time, we are talking on the House's agenda about the recent decision of the Curia. This is also the fact that the government's bill of justice for foreign exchange legitimists will now be before Parliament today, from its first step. The Curia, as the Supreme Court, made a very important decision two weeks ago when it said that banks acted unfairly against foreign exchange lenders. This was the turning point that made it clear that from now on we were not talking about what was fair and what was not fair. We are not talking about whether the foreign exchange lenders knew the risks they were taking, and from now on we are talking about the fact that the banks have clearly deceived the foreign exchange lenders, abused their dominant position, and unfairly, unfairly, thereby taking money from them. This must be returned to all foreign exchange lenders. Let us not forget that this was due to the fact that for long and long years in Hungary there were governments between 2002 and 2010 who allowed banks to abuse their dominant position. Those who, when they saw a risky situation, did not ban foreign exchange loans, who, when they saw banks using unilateral contractual amendments as an industrial abuse, did not prohibit unilateral contractual amendments. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that, when we talk about justice, we can, as a matter of course, also bring justice to foreign exchange creditors and forint-crediters in all situations where Parliament or the government were not behind them to protect them against unjust decisions. Between 2006 and 2010, when most unilateral contractual amendments were made, Parliament and the then government did not provide protection to foreign exchange lenders or forint lenders. Therefore, in support of the bill just tabled by the Government, the Fidesz parliamentary group, in consultation with the KDNP, will submit a very important and rigorous amendment to this law, and we ask the Government's support for it. This proposal is about the fact that the limitation period, the eligibility of the pre-2009 period, must be discussed in such a way that it is a favourable situation for the foreign exchange credentials and, more precisely, for all the authentic ones. In other words, there can be no statute of limitations saying that banks will not return claims before 2009. Not for foreign exchange creditors, not forint-loaners. We will be submitting an amendment that makes it clear that, in the case of existing contracts, whether we are talking about a HUF loan or we are talking about a foreign currency loan, the statute of limitations can only begin if the contract is closed. If the contract is still in existence, if the authentic payment is made on the basis of it or if the bank claims it, no limitation period shall be allowed. In other words, more than half a million foreign exchange lenders can also claim back the funds they have been unfairly treated before 2009, and this also applies to those forint-crediters against whom interest has been unfairly raised by unilateral decision. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of closed contracts, we also believe that there is a limitation period only if the limitation period starts with at least five years since the conclusion of the contract. Which means, therefore, our honourable fellow Members, that each currency-credited and HUF-credited person should be given back, for the entire term, the unfair, unfairly taken money from them. In support of the government's current bill, I would also like to encourage the government to work on further steps, on the most important steps for foreign exchange creditors, i.e. to work out the form in which foreign exchange credentialers will get back the money that was taken unfairly from them, and this law will come before Parliament in September, and we ask the government to start converting mortgage-based foreign currency loans into forint loans. We want no foreign exchange credit to remain in Hungary for Christmas, and we ask the government to work on a solution where it shares the risk of exchange rate risk between the bank and the borrower. Because it's true that the Curia doesn't give us the authority to charge banks with exchange rate risk unfairly, but we think that banks have to take part in exchange rate risk. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-16	I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2014-06-30-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, As promised earlier, following the Curia's decision as a legal unit, the government submitted its bill for settling foreign exchange loans on 27 June. This is the first step of the bill to achieve our common goal of removing foreign currency loans from consumer lending contracts, thereby averting the danger that existed above the head of existing or future borrowers. Dear House, Let me remind you that the cause of the problem was irresponsible, misguided decisions by governments between 2004 and 2010 and by financial and monetary authorities. Unlike neighbouring countries, Hungary has not created a barrier to the mass spread of foreign exchange loans. By 2010, 800,000 households had foreign exchange loans that were covered by housing or family houses. The mass payment problems clearly demonstrated that foreign exchange-based mortgage loans were bad products, borrowers were not aware of the full range of risks, and banks abused their dominant position when concluding contracts. [[13.50]] Governments prior to 2010 did not take any meaningful steps to solve the problems and help families. It is recalled that, under the leadership of the previous government, Gordon Bajnai, before 2010, he merely expected the development of an ethical code, which was not mandatory, so it was not respected by the banks. After 2010, the government helped families in many steps: final repayment, introduction of a currency barrier system, and the purchase of the house and the apartment with the National Asset Manager in the most difficult families. Overall, this helped 370 thousand people. However, it has become clear that the full resolution of the problem must not be without the decision of the legal unit on which the legislation can base the necessary steps. After the Curia took this decision, it was possible for the government to submit draft legislation. In this legal unit decision, the Curia stated that the banks were unfair, the exchange rate gap, the unilateral amendment of the contract and the calculation of interest were unfair. The government's position is that unfairly taken money must be repaid to cheated customers. We recommend a solution in several steps. In the first step, the decision of the Curia will be transferred to the Hungarian legal system. In this bill, we propose to make the legal unit decision universal and binding on everyone. This proposal primarily makes it the responsibility of the banks to eliminate unfair clauses from the general terms and conditions they apply. Within 90 days of the entry into force of the Act, banks must recalculate the amount of the payment and repayment retroactively. Some provisions of the proposal also apply to forint loans, but not to cancelled loans. The final repayment was made under more favourable conditions than the obligation of the market and the original contract. However, the provisions on unilateral contractual amendments will also apply to forint-based credit and loan contracts and financial leasing contracts. The Government seeks to maintain the contracts concluded by eliminating unfair conditions for foreign exchange credit contracts on the basis of the practice of the European Court of Justice. In the second step, we will propose to establish rules for accounting for unfairly obtained benefits, to determine them, to settle other financial and legal accounts and issues. This would be followed by the third step in the course of this year. By the end of this year, we will present the legislation on the issuance of foreign exchange loans, and this will be a full solution for foreign exchange lenders by converting loans into mandatory forints under certain conditions. This is where we will have to consider business and banking stability aspects, where the issue of public engagement can be found. Dear House, We want to bring justice to families in distress as soon as possible, so the government will develop a reassuring, definitive solution for those who are still in trouble. Our aim is to find a permanent and reassuring solution, to bring justice to damaged, cheated foreign exchange lenders, and to fully remove mortgage-based foreign exchange credit contracts from the market. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-18	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. László Kiss with MSZP, Péter Csizi with Fideszes, R. Sallai Benedek and Ikotity István with LMP, Márta Demeter MSZP, President Novák with Jobs. Dear Parliament, We now have credentials and oaths from our representatives. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, with the resignation of Mr Zoltán Balczó, the Hungarian Socialist Party, the Party of the Conjoint-Adversary Changers, the Democratic Coalition, the Dialogue for Hungary and László Varju has become vacant on the national list of the joint party list of the Hungarian Socialist Party, the Party of the Contemporary Changers, the Democratic Coalition, the Dialogue for Hungary and the Hungarian Liberal Party. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of the credentials of Mr László Lukács and Mr László Varju on the basis of the electoral documents. I now give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who has the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2.
u2014-06-30-19	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 20 June 2014, Zoltán Balczó, Member of Parliament, resigned his seat on the party list of Jobbik Hungary. The vacant mandate was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 1126/2014. László Lukács was granted to György by decision of 23 June 2014. On 26 June 2014, the decision became final at 4 p.m. On 26 June 2014, Dr. András Patyi, Chairman of the National Election Committee, presented the credentials to the representative. XXXVI of 2012 on the functioning of the Parliament Act No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 9. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of the Section, the immunity committee examined the documents necessary for the confirmation of the mandate of György Lukács, on the basis of which it made the following decision unanimously, without abstentions and against votes: the Committee of Parliament proposes to the Hungarian Parliament to justify the mandate of György Lukács. On 20 June 2014, Member Csaba Molnár resigned his parliamentary mandate on the joint party list of the organisations nominated by the MSZP-Cooperation-DK-PM-MLP. The vacant mandate was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 1125/2014. was issued to László Varju by decision of 23 June 2014. On 26 June 2014, the decision became final at 4 p.m. On 26 June 2014, Dr. András Patyi, Chairman of the National Election Committee, issued the credentials to the representative. According to the above-mentioned rule of law, at today's meeting, the Committee examined the documents necessary for the confirmation of the mandate of László Varju, on the basis of which it made the following decision unanimously, without abstaining or voting against: the Committee of Parliament proposes to the Hungarian Parliament to justify László Varju's mandate. Mr László Lukács and Mr László Varju indicated in their statement that there is no conflict of interest against them, so they can exercise their rights. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-20	Dear Parliament, Now, the mandates, which we decide on one by one, will follow. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted, and the mandate will be confirmed by the Parliament without debate. So I ask this House whether it justifies the mandate of György Lukács. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has unanimously confirmed the mandate of György Lukács, with 162 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to confirm László Varju's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House confirmed László Varju's mandate by 160 votes in favour. Now, I ask Members of Parliament László György Lukács and László Varju to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I would ask Mr Nándor Gúr to read the words of the oath, and I would ask the House to rise. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. László László Lukács György and László Varju enter the center of the room. Nándor Gúr reads the words of the oath.]] [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]]
u2014-06-30-21	I, Dr. László László Lukács György/László Varju vow that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. [[Dr. László György Lukács adds: "So help me God." László Varju adds: I promise to do everything in my power to re-establish the republic. I will do everything I can to make this country a new constitution with a referendum. An uproar, an uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. A statement from the Fidesz: Shame on you! It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2014-06-30-22	Dear Parliament, After the oath, I ask Mr Attila Móring József to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Members to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. László György Lukács and László Varju, and gives a copy of the signed oath document. For Dr. László György Lukács, first Gábor Vona, then Dr. András Schiffer, Antal Rogán, Dr. Imre Vejkey and Dr. Bertalan Tóth, first Gábor Vona, then Antal Rogán, Dr. András Schiffer, Dr. Imre Vejkey and Dr. Bertalan Tóth congratulates Dr.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish the new Members of Parliament effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. Dear House, I declare that on behalf of the Government, Minister Zsolt Semjén is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament has initiated an extraordinary meeting to be held today. He indicated in the annex to his letter all the proposals he had initiated to be discussed. You can find this on the website. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. On the agenda, for the duration of the meeting, on the speaking time limits, the House Committee presented its proposal. Dear Parliament, At the House Committee meeting on Thursday, T/460. Bill No. 1 and T/465 at today's meeting. It proposed a derogation from house rules in the context of the negotiation and decision-making of bill No 1. At the meeting of the House Committee, the Government and the representative of Fidesz initiated T/262 and T/311. A derogation from house rules should also be made in the course of the negotiation of legislative proposals No 1. There has been no agreement in these, so I will present the two proposals in my presidential power. They will now be decided. Dear House, I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the T465/1. Proposal 1.
u2014-06-30-23	The House Committee's proposal to derogate from the House Rules of Procedure. The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution - hereinafter referred to as "the HSZ - 65. On the basis of its powers under § (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament shall propose to Parliament the following: The Parliament is T/465 on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer credit contracts in financial institutions. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of bill No 34 of the HSZ, it departs from the regulatory provisions of the decision. Paragraph 1 does not have to be taken into account; a general debate shall take place until 30 June 2014; its representatives may submit an amendment on Wednesday 2 July 2014, no later than 9 a.m. without the appointment of a negotiating committee; the detailed discussion of the bill shall be carried out by the Legislative Committee in accordance with Article 44. § (1) and (3), (4) and HSZ 45. § ( 1) to (3) and by the fact that HSZ is 45. If it also expresses an intention to submit an over-extensive amendment proposal, or supports or maintains such an amendment, it shall submit it separately from the summarised amendment proposal at the same time; the fact that the detailed debate is closed and the HSZ 44. The rapporteur shall, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, provide information on his findings within the meaning of paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article; he may submit his report and his amendment, which summarises the summary report and the summary amendment on the agenda of the meeting, not later than one hour before the opening of the meeting day, on which the draft agenda the summary report and the summary amendment proposal are to be discussed; the rapporteur shall, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, give oral information on the amendments which his representatives agree to in the proposals for amendment; the HSZ 46. The provisions of paragraphs 10 to 12 of the HSZ do not apply. The final vote on the summary report and the summary amendment proposal, as well as the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the text of the legislative proposal as amended by the summary amendment, shall not take place on 4 July 2014, subject to an extension of the amendment proposed by the HSZ 64. If the Legislative Committee submits a summary amendment which is referred to in Article 65, it shall also apply to paragraph 2 of this Article. § 2 or 3 shall apply to any further procedure the general rules of the hearing of the bill; the HSZ 108. Paragraph 4 shall not apply to the meeting of the Legislative Committee.
u2014-06-30-24	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the Rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the T465/1 contributes to the departure from the house rules. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted a proposal for a derogation from house rules by 168 votes to one against. Dear House, The general debate will take place today following the questions. I now ask Mr József Attila Móring to present the report to Mr T/460/1. Proposal 1.
u2014-06-30-25	The House Committee takes the initiative that the Parliament is the CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure T/460. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of bill No 34 of the House Rules of the Decision, it shall depart from the provisions of the House Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 1 does not have to apply, the proposal and the Commission's report amending the bill should not be submitted; the general debate should take place today by the first time in the debate to be heard by the author of the bill - opening speech - by giving his speech a total of 10 minutes with the closing word and then by the representative of the government for a five-minute period, the political groups' positions can be expressed in 5-5 minutes, the independent representatives and ethnic advocates can speak in a total of 2-2 minutes, the author may close the speech for the opening speech and the closing vote for the remaining period of 10 minutes available; the closing vote should take place today.
u2014-06-30-26	I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/460/1 will contribute to the departure from the house rules. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House gave its consent to a derogation from the house rules by 142 votes to 26, with no abstentions. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the report on T/262/8. Proposal 1. [[14.10]]
u2014-06-30-27	Proposal by the President of the Parliament to derogate from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly Act No. 13 Acting in my power under Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure, in view of the fact that the House Committee has not reached a full agreement on the derogation from the House Rules of Procedure, I propose to Parliament the following: The National Assembly T/262 on the further development of the institutional system to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the bill, the Legislative Committee shall derogate from the provisions of the decree-making house rules in such a way as to ensure that the Legislative Committee is the head office of HSZ 46. By way of derogation from paragraph 8 of Section T/262/5. The Legislative Committee may resubmit a new summary report on the conclusion of the negotiations of the amended amendment, together with the submission of the amended amendment, no later than 2 p.m. on Thursday 3 July 2014, at the latest; the HSZ 46. With the application of the provisions of paragraphs 10 to 12 of the Legislative Committee, the President of the Legislative Committee, supplemented by the consolidated text of the bill and the supplemented amendment proposal, shall submit a single proposal no later than one hour before the opening of the meeting day on which the draft agenda of the meeting is to decide on the proposal for a summary amendment; in respect of the supplemented summary amendment, HSZ shall be set out in Article 48. § 2 and 4 voting requests may take place at the latest on the working day preceding the meeting, on which the draft agenda of the meeting includes a decision on the proposal for a summary amendment; Parliament shall decide on the proposal for an amended amendment without discussion on 4 July 2014 with a single vote, the T/262/5. There is no need to vote on the draft amendment; Parliament shall finalise the amended single proposal submitted on the basis of the derogation from the house rules of the decision in the event of the adoption of the amended amendment.
u2014-06-30-28	Dear Parliament, I ask you, do you agree to a derogation from the house rules under T/262/8? On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted a derogation from house rules by 139 votes to 28, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear House, I ask the notary József Attila Móring to explain to us the T/311/33. Proposal 1.
u2014-06-30-29	Proposal by the President of the Parliament to derogate from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly Act No. 13 Acting in my power under Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure, in view of the fact that the House Committee has not reached a full agreement on the derogation from the House Rules of Procedure, I propose to Parliament the following: The National Assembly T/311 on the amendment of certain laws relating to educational subjects In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the bill, it shall derogate from the provisions of the decree so that on 19 June 2014 - HSZ 62. T/311/3 adopted pursuant to §8 of the EC Treaty. By way of derogation from the exceptional proposal for a legislative amendment, the final vote shall take place on 4 July 2014.
u2014-06-30-30	Dear Parliament, I'm asking you if T/311/33 will contribute to the departure from the house rules. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted a derogation from the house rules by 138 votes to 28, 28 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, MEP L. Simon László initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures that the Parliament would discuss the 2014 XXII on advertising tax in an exceptional procedure. T/467 on the entry into force of Act T/467 on the entry into force of, and the amendment of, certain tax laws relating thereto. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Member initiated the possibility of submitting amendments by 9 a.m. on Wednesday 2 July, the consolidated debate, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on Friday 4 July. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to order an exceptional procedure, more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, need a vote in favour. Now it's time for the decision. I'm asking you if T/467 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the motion by 118 votes to 32, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the House Committee's recommendation on Thursday, together with the amendments that have just been made. I ask the House whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, We will now continue our work with decisions. The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Kuwait on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports follows. The submission is T/56. Available on the website. As no amendment to the proposal was submitted, the legislative committee did not proceed with the procedure. We now decide on the original text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/56 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has adopted the proposal unanimously by 167 votes in favour. The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the publication of an agreement between the armed forces of Hungary and the members of the armed forces of the Federal Republic of Germany on their temporary residence in the territory of the other State follows. The submission was made in T/169. Available on the website. As no amendment to the proposal was submitted, the legislative committee did not proceed with the procedure. We now decide on the original text of the bill. I ask the House whether it accepts T/169. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the bill by 148 votes to 17, with three abstentions. Dear House, In line with the derogation from the house rules adopted just now, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities follows. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure general discussion of the bill amending the law and the final vote. The independent motion of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary is T/460. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the House Committee is the 29th Parliamentary Act. § 2 of the Act states that the item concerns the interests and rights of nationalities. Dear House, I give the floor to Mr János Fuzik, chairman of the committee, for the first time in this debate.
u2014-06-30-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Pozdravujem Vás v mene parlamentného Výboru národností v Mad'arsku a prájem Vámág úspesnu zákonodarnu práku! [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and wish you an effective legislative work. On behalf of Hungary's first independent national minority committee, the 13 national minority advocates of our committee, I would also like to welcome you to our first official speech at the plenary session of the Honourable Parliament and, more importantly, at the opening speech of the general debate on the first legislative proposal of our committee. [[14.20]] Although we are still familiar with the work of the Parliament, we have gained a wealth of experience in the theoretical and practical field of domestic ethnic policy. Eight members of our committee are still chairing one of the national minority self-governments, and our fellow spokespersons are other officials of these bodies. That is why we believed that our new parliamentary nationality committee should also contribute to the upcoming autumn election of the national governments that have a fundamental role to play in the life and work of national minorities, building institutional and cultural autonomy. Unfortunately, time didn't work for us. We considered it of paramount importance that national electors, who had already passed a registration procedure, could cast their votes to the national governments in the same electoral district, where, according to their place of residence, they voted for the municipal body and the mayor, as last time on 6 April, in the election of parliamentary representatives and minority advocates. So far, and unfortunately also in October, national electors have had to and will have to go to another separate minority electoral district, often at a significant distance. It can be comforting for them that if our bill-modifying proposal is accepted by the Honourable Parliament, this year will be the last such two-part local elections. In 2019 they will be able to cast all their local and ethnic municipal votes in the electoral district of their place of residence on the basis of our agreed proposal. At the time of the 2019 national minority self-government elections, our proposal to restore the former legislation would also enter into force, imposing a three-year operational obligation on national minority nominating organisations in order to prevent electoral abuse. This year's national minority elections will be held soon. As a result, the strengthening of the registration campaign recruiting national electors will start again. Thanks to previous positive legislative changes, the roll-list of voters registered for this year's parliamentary elections and the subsequent national electoral elections will become permanent and final depending on their will. They will no longer have to register for the next elections. At the same time, the possibility of registration for new applicants has become continuous. This moment is therefore key and will remain so in the future. This is why we propose that a more human and understanding approach and decision mechanism should be applied to the application for admission to the national electoral register, sometimes rather rigid and administratively. If, however, the application for national electoral registration has to be rejected, the electoral bodies should indicate in their negative decision the exact reason for their negative decision, unlike the previous practice. Thus, they facilitate the possibility of improvement and prevent repeated barren attempts by self-conscious national voters. As has been shown so far, the possibility of applying to the national electoral register is continuous, so this database is constantly changing, and we hope to increase, especially during the electoral campaigns. That is why we propose that national minority nominating organisations receive information on voters who are registered in the central register as national voters on three occasions. First, at the same time as handing over the recommendation sheets, it is mandatory. The second and third transmissions shall also be made at the request of the nominating organisations at the time of notification of candidates and lists or at the end of the deadline for registration. The latter two data transmissions, since they no longer serve recommendations but campaign purposes, do not contain the data of voters who use the ban on the release of their data according to legal regulations. Our proposal covers both municipal and parliamentary elections. Our last proposal is non-choice-technical, but it is closely linked to the election of the minority self-government, the claim and the launch of the candidates. The majority of cultural and public education institutions founded and maintained by national authorities play a prominent role in the lives of our ethnic communities. Contrary to the legislation in force, the proposal therefore allows the leaders of these institutions, if the national minority community considers it necessary, to become members of their maintenance self-government. In this way, they can strengthen their local government and its relationship with their ethnic community with their professional capacity. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I ask for your support for the adoption of our proposal amending the law. Thank you for your attention, thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-32	I thank the rapporteur, President of the Commission, for his speech. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you have about two and a half minutes to say the closing word. Dear House, I'll ask if the government wants to speak in a five-minute time frame. [[This is Miklós Soltesz.]] Yes, Mr. Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen of the Nationality Spokespersons! Ladies and gentlemen, We are witnessing a historic moment, since the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is presenting a bill for the first time in the National Assembly. Historical, because so far it has not been possible, and let me now list the 13 nationalities who have done this work: Serbian, Polish, Roma, Slovak, Ruthenian, Ukrainian, Croatian, Slovenian, Greek, Romanian, German, Armenian and Bulgarian. Thank you very much for your work. Thank you for allowing a large majority of Parliament to discuss this law, which seems short, but which is important for the autumn elections, despite the fact that it had to be submitted suddenly. It was incomprehensible to me why the Socialist Group did not vote in favour of this negotiating opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear Parliament, According to the bill, the year 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities has been tightened since 2009. in law, the concept of nationality organisation. It provides that a minority organisation registered as such for at least three years may act as a nominating organisation in the local elections of the national minority. The proposal amends the rules on conflicts of interest of the national minority law, and the 2013 XXXVII on electoral procedure is amended. Some provisions of the law. The government is in any case in favour of these efforts, and I thank you for having done this work, as clarification and very important steps have been tabled in a number of areas. By tightening the rules on minority nominating organisations, the potential for potential abuse of elections may be further reduced. By amending the rules on conflicts of interest, the rules on conflicts of interest of the law on the rights of nationalities are adapted to the rules on conflicts of interest of the municipal law, but do not restrict the work of national leaders who can be elected either in cultural or educational institutions. I would also like to highlight, as a third, the amendment to the Act on Election Procedure, which clarifies and simplifies the rules of procedure for the election of representatives of national minority self-governments in a customer-friendly manner. [[14.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you for your work. Thank you for actively doing a work that will help all 13 nationalities to continue their work at the beginning of the Parliament. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2014-06-30-34	Dear Parliament, Its representatives and its advocates are now taking part in the agreed timeframes; five minutes per group of representatives, two minutes in total, and two minutes in total for minority advocates. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing; next Imre Vas, on behalf of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-35	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to say in a few sentences about the bill tabled by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, which is CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure initiates an amendment of the law. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen the rights of nationalities in Hungary on the one hand, and to clarify the rules laid down in the electoral procedure in a way that ensures the purity of the local elections and the smoothness of the procedure. Allow me to highlight a few points in the proposal, first of all the conceptual clarification that is making progress to avoid abuse in order to ensure the purity of national elections: from 2019 it will restore the previous regulation by imposing a minimum of three-year operational obligation on national minority nominating organisations. It is an important and forward-looking change that nominating organisations can, in the future, request information on national electors three times in the future, contrary to previous legislation, in order to conduct an election campaign. Another amendment to the law on the rights of nationalities is that the leaders of the cultural and educational institutions established and maintained by the national authorities, in particular, can become members of the national minority self-government, thus strengthening the relationship of nationalities with the members of the ethnic communities. In order to avoid unnecessary extra burden, the proposal provides for an opportunity for national electors to vote in one place, as the President said. On the basis of the new electoral law adopted in the previous term, all nationalities can now be represented in the National Assembly with a minority advocate. The Parliamentary Act requires the establishment of a standing committee of these advocates, which has the right to initiate a bill. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The Nationality Committee has taken advantage of this new opportunity, the motion before us, to initiate the amendment of the National Rights Act. I believe that it is our duty, irrespective of party standing, to support this proposal, which the representatives of nationalities, based on their own experience, have submitted with a clear intention to improve and, if adopted, its impact will be felt primarily in the life of nationalities. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I'm asking you to support this motion. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2014-06-30-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Speaking in advance, Mr László Teleki, MSZP.
u2014-06-30-37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will also support the draft law because I think that the committee has taken very important aspects into account when doing this work to give national minorities living in Hungary an opportunity in the electoral law that might be important for them. However, on the other hand, there was a dilemma in our group about how we can support this bill if we can see that several of its plans only touch on the year 2019, even though we would consider it very important that these laws can be applied at the same time as the autumn municipal elections. I mean, for example, when the committee objects to the fact that three years of registered organisations should be introduced now; I think that it is absolutely right, because we know and see how many times history has allowed us to detect and experience abuses that non-nationals who could really do this have also put themselves on the register, because there was no control. Therefore, I think it is very important to have control rules that we can filter out those who may not belong to the minority, and yet they can start. We do not see the brakes on this limit today, so from now on we are concerned that this bill is only for 2019, but we support it. In addition, we think it is very important and we think it is important, and we would consider it important, for example, to be represented in polling districts in the autumn, so instead of a polling district, there should be those who can vote for nationalities in every polling district, because then they should not go to two polling districts. This would be very important, I think, and it would speed up this event at some point, and not only would it speed it up, but a lot more people would take on the minority, who belong there, because then they wouldn't say that we don't want to go in two directions, so we'd rather just choose one. Therefore, the participation rate would be much higher if we could already apply this law. But of course - as I said - we do not hesitate from 2019, but we do not understand why, if we are going to pass the law, we are not going to amend legislation that can take immediate action and that law can be applied immediately from the date of publication. The other equally important thing - and this is very important that it is now possible to start from this year - is to resolve the issue of conflicts of interest. There are a lot of educational and cultural institutions in the national minorities, so I think that either the Slovak or the German minority - at least the Roma minority - has many institutions, but the others have many, and that very important ones - those working in local governments or institutional leaders will have no conflict of interest after the adoption of the law. We consider this very important, and I think it is forward-looking; it is also because, if we jump a little, then the present parliamentary minority also has a conflict of interest in starting as local government representatives. We have taken note of this, but it will very, very much rip from minorities either the Members of Parliament or, if we do not amend this law, the leaders of the institutions would be separated from the minorities in question. We therefore consider it very important that we be able to amend this law. As a result, the draft law itself in general, I think it is certainly forward-looking, but it must also be added that the Hungarian Socialist Party wants to achieve much more until the 2019 elections, it will make use of amendments in order for national minority organisations and the ethnic population to feel at home in Hungary. Therefore, we consider it very important to make additional additions. I would like to add - which is not directly relevant - that the task and competence of national minorities will also have to be settled, because it is unclear. Among today's issues, I will ask you about how tasks and competences can be expanded, because we think it is very important. So, for our part, the Hungarian Socialist Party considers it very important that the committee has made amendments to this law before the House, and for our part we are doing everything we can to get it through the vote of the House today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP and ethnic advocates.]]
u2014-06-30-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Szávay István, Member Jobbik.
u2014-06-30-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Speaking Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen of the President, ladies of the President, First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Jobbik, to welcome you to the walls of this House with respect, to wish you good work and to encourage you to express your views on as many issues as possible and to express the expectations and wishes of the communities that you are meant to represent. [[14.40]] If the institution of minority advocates did not fully provide the solution that the government, the governing parties, would have intended or intended, and even if it did not completely eliminate the constitutional failure that has existed since 1993, I believe that it is a very serious step forward that you can be here, and with slightly more limited rights than Members, but you can speak in this Parliament and express an opinion on the issues of your national community, and, as is the case now, you can make a legislative proposal. For its part, Jobbik has always considered it important to emphasise - and has included this in its programme - that it recognises, supports and considers important the exercise of the rights of national minorities and, for its part, gives all the support that national communities can feel at home in Hungary and acts as a partner in the efforts made by the representatives of the communities. This is also what we have done in the context of the draft law on the rights of nationalities, which has been proposed by us to expand the use of mother tongue, broadening the possibilities for use of mother tongue, and thus perhaps also as an example for other countries in the Carpathian Basin. As far as the current concrete proposal is concerned, we have, of course, supported the inclusion of this on the agenda in order to ensure that the appropriate provisions can already be applied in this year's municipal elections, and, on the other hand, looking at this bill, I do not think that there is any point in it that we cannot support which does not serve the better, cleaner, smoother implementation of this choice and the clarification of the legislative environment. There's a pass here that narrows down the possibility of abuse. I would all the more like to welcome this, because in 2010, we ourselves have repeatedly drawn attention to the phenomenon, which is famous as ethnobiznis, that people who claim to be a minority but who do not actually belong to it have abused the opportunities offered by national governments, especially the financial support that this entails. Several loopholes have been closed. I believe that there is still work to be done in this area. We continue to consider it important to classify the declaration of nationality as a document, but I believe that this kind of restriction, the proposal for three years of work of national minority organisations, can also give rise to a new guarantee in this direction. The same applies either to data provision or to certain procedural clarifications, which I believe are all proposals that the Parliament should support, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to a better and more organised conduct of elections. It is also important to note that I think - and I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members - that this proposal came with unanimous support from the committee, so behind this package of proposals is the opinion of all 13 representatives of the nationalities included in the Constitution and the Fundamental Law. We, for our part, therefore, have a good heart in supporting this proposal, but it would certainly be worth returning to this law or to the related legislation after the autumn municipal election. There will certainly be experience that can be incorporated into the relevant legislation. On the one hand, the harmonisation of the legislative environment, the question of making as few differences as possible between the election of minority self-governments and the election of ordinary self-governments as possible, and on the other hand, which I would like to draw attention to once again - and we would like to continue to be the leaders of this - to close as many loopholes as possible as possible. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to abuse nationality and certain advantages, where appropriate. Thank you very much, Mr President, we support this proposal. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and nationalists. It's a rare applause from the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2014-06-30-40	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP.
u2014-06-30-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Possibly Other Politics also welcomes the initiative, and we are very pleased that all 13 members of the committee have supported it in a uniform way. We are very pleased that this is finally possible within such a framework. However, I would like to express our concern on a few points. One of these is that, in general, the LMP disagrees by tightening the rules on conflicts of interest. However, in the case at hand, given that there are many cases of small communities, this is entirely acceptable. At the same time, three-year regulation is generally considered to be good, since it demonstrates its functioning and shows that it is indeed a functioning organisation. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it can be limited in cases where a new nationality can be adopted, as it represents a three-year limit in the start-up process, as it is the case that the Bunyevac minority has taken place twice in the past period before Parliament. We are pleased that this will start and, of course, support the initiative. [[Applause from the LMP and ethnic advocates. It's a rare applause from the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2014-06-30-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Parliamentary Act is 29. § 2 and Article 38/B Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the spokesperson may speak at Parliament's meeting if the House Committee considers that the item on the agenda concerns the rights of nationalities. For the first time, Imre Ritter wishes to present his speech in ethnic language and therefore in German. I would like to inform the Parliament that, following certain elements of the minority language speech, the interpreter in the box will present the Hungarian translation. Speaker Ritter Imre, please proceed to the speaker's stand. [[Imre Ritter will take the speaker's stand.]] You have the floor, Mr. Imre Ritter.
u2014-06-30-43	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, this House! Die in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten haben zuletzt im Jahre 1933 einen Vertreter in einem Democratisch gewählten Ungarischen Parlament gehabt. Er war Jakob Bleyer, der als erster und bisher letzter Minister für die in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten verantwortlich war. The last Hungarian nationalities were represented in 1933 in a democratically elected Hungarian parliament in the person of Jakob Bleyer, who was the first and last minister responsible for the ethnicities of Hungary. 81 Jahre nach Bleyer hat das Ungarische Parlament mit der Wahl in diesem Jahr die bisher zugesperrten Türen vor den Nationalitäten wieder aufgemacht, so haben alle 13 in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten Fürsprecher, Vertreter im Ungarischen Parlament. Dafür möchte ich mich bedanken. 81 years after Jakob Bleyer, this year's parliamentary election, the Hungarian Parliament reopened the gates to the nationalities, so all 13 nationalities have advocates and representatives in the Hungarian Parliament, for which they welcome our thanks. Ich hoffe vom Herzen, dass die Öffnung der Türen nicht nur Formalität, sondern auch eine reale Absicht der ungarischen Politik ist. Das ist für die ungarischen Nationalitäten eine historische Möglichkeit, die das ungarische Parlament, also Sie, mit Inhalt ausfüllen können. I sincerely hope that this is not only a formal, but also a real door opening by Hungarian politics. For nationalities in Hungary, this is a historical opportunity that the Hungarian Parliament, you can turn into a reality. [[14.50]] Die Demokratie ist zweifellos die entwickelette politische Form, aber sie alleine gibt keine automatische Lösung für das Wohl der Nationalitäten. In der Demokratie können die - in der Minderheit lebenden Nationalitäten - direct, mit ihrer Stimme ihren Willen nie geltend machen. Das Wohl der Nationalitäten hängt davon ab, wie tolerant und sensibel die Mehrheit der Gesellschaft ist, was für positive Diskrimierung sie im Interesse der Minderheiten anwendet. Democracy is undoubtedly the most advanced political form, but it does not in itself provide an automatic solution to the prosperity of nationalities. In democracy, minorities in the minority can never enforce their will directly, with their votes. The well-being of nationalities depends on the tolerance, sensitivity of the majority society, the positive discrimination it employs for the benefit of minorities. In dieser Hinsicht werden die nächsten vier Jahre die Probe von der Reife der ungarischen Demokratie sein. Wir, als Fürsprecher der Nationalitäten werden unsere Stimme hören lassen, wir werden unsere Meinung äussern, wir werden die Gesetzesmodifizierungen, die für uns Nationalitäten so wichtig sind, vorlegen. Die erste gerade jetzt! Es hängt vom ungarischen Parlament von Ihnen ab, ob Sie unsere Gesetzesvorschläge annehmen, ob Sie diesen zustimmen. Das ist Ihre historische Verantwortung! In this respect, the next four years will be a test of the maturity of democracy in Hungary. We, the minority advocates, will be able to make our voices heard, we will give our opinions, we will present legislative amendments that are important for nationalities. The first one right now. In the Hungarian Parliament, so it will be up to you whether or not our legislative proposals will be adopted or voted in favour. This is your historic responsibility. Es ist an der Zeit, dass die ungarische Politik versteht: Mit der Schaffung, der Verwirklichung der nationalen Zusammengehörigkeit, der nationalen Einheit muss hier zu Hause, in Ungarn begonnen werden, nämlich mit der Unterstützung der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, mit der Gewährung von realen Nationalitäten rechten. Nur das kann eine stabilize Grundlage, Authentizität und positive Ergebnisse für die - gerechten und von uns unterstützten - Bestrebung bezüglich der ungarischen Nationalität jenseits der Grenzen sichern. Das ist unser gemeinsames Interesse! It is time for Hungarian politics to understand: national cohesion and the creation of national unity must be established at home by embracing Hungarian nationalities, guaranteeing genuine, guaranteed national rights. Only this can provide a stable basis, credibility and effectiveness for efforts related to Hungarian ethnicity outside the border, supported by us and considered absolutely legitimate. It's in everyone's best interest. Ich danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-06-30-44	Thank you very much for the speech by Mr Ritter Imre. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to President János Fuzik, if you wish. [[For signal:]] who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have a two-and-a-half-minute time frame left. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We jumped a little into the deep water ourselves, because our committee is a month old, but we thought it was important to improve the laws in force before the autumn elections. I would like to thank everyone who has helped our committee in this work, in particular the Speaker and his colleagues, Mr Vice-President, the Chairman of the Legislative Committee, the Office of Parliament, especially the Commission and Coordination Department, and the state bodies that have provided us with important advice during the consultation, the Ministry of Human Resources, the Ministry of Justice and the National Election Office. We are convinced that our proposal serves to improve the elections of the autumn minority self-government, otherwise there will be specific direct elections, which have not yet been held in Hungary, since every registered national electorate can vote not only for its own municipal self-government, but also for its regional and national minority self-government. As has been said, we believe that this first test was also the main test of the future work for us. Of course, in the autumn we will continue to work in the same way for our nationalities. I thank all the factions for their support, and we hope that our proposal will be a legislative amendment. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-06-30-46	Thank you very much for the final thoughts of President János Fuzik. Please take your seats, because we're about to make a decision. In the light of the derogation from the adopted house rules, there is no possibility to submit a proposal amending the bill and a Commission report, so the final vote follows. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the bill requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/460. A bill with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 155 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/478. by serial number. In this he initiates that the parliamentary representative László György Lukács should be elected as a member of the committee to replace Zoltán Balczó in the legislative committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected György Lukács as a member of the committee with 159 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, And now it's 2:59 p.m. to discuss interpellations, immediate questions and questions. Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: " What do our Polish friends think of us? What do they think of us in the world? " with the title " Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2014-06-30-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, One of the biggest storms in recent days is the so-called Polish wiretapping case, which, unfortunately, includes Hungarian aspects and Hungarian threads. The public news reports on the discussion between the Polish finance minister and the president of the Polish oil company on Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's Russian friendship and on the matters of MOL-CEO MOL and Zsolt Hernádi. The discussions have shown that the Polish political and economic elite has a very devastating view of the Hungarian-Russian relationship and of Viktor Orbán personally. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said about his Russian friendship that the Prime Minister will have the Russians build the two new Hungarian nuclear reactors, take out ten billion euros of loans from the Russians, and, of course, also make the South Stream gas pipeline, despite the European Union's disagreement. He also made other comments. [[15.00]] In relation to Zsolt Hernádi's criminal case, the Hungarian rule of law is in essence called into question. According to the news, the leader of the Polish state oil company said that he referred to Zsolt Hernádi, who said to him: " Listen, my lawyers have found something that if the case on this issue is carried out in any EU country and the judgment is exculpatory, then all EU countries must acknowledge it and travel in Europe. " This confirms the suspicion that Zsolt Hernádi's criminal case is an act in which Zsolt Hernádi is pulling the strings. He made the prosecutor's office ignore his case, but at the same time he's conducting a false criminal procedure with a man he's in charge of, and at the end of that, there's an acquittal. Dear Secretary of State, This is what the Polish friendly government figures say about Hungary. These news, the reality of which has not yet been denied, undermines Hungary's reputation and authority in the world. These news can influence Hungary's judgement within the European Union and the economic and judicial relations with individual Member States. The problem is that these claims about Hungary are not a picture of a rule of law, but a picture of a banana republic, where fundamental democratic values fall into the background. But even bigger problem is that these views can be considered thorough, as this picture was developed by the Orbán government about Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, The Minister was previously responsible for the government's judicial policy, and he was responsible for Hungary's image. I ask you how you intend to improve Hungary's image abroad. Has the government responded to the news in the Polish media, and how does this wiretapping scandal affect the future of Hungarian-Polish and Hungarian-Croatian relations? What do you intend to do to ensure that Hungary's partners do not regard the members of the Hungarian government as representatives of a banana republic? I look forward to your reply, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-30-48	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Szijjártó.
u2014-06-30-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. And to you, my honourable fellow Member, I thank you for the interpellation, given that all of this gives us the opportunity to discuss important issues here in Parliament. But before I go to these important questions, allow me to state some facts. You are talking about Polish government actors, Poland, our Polish friends, the opinion of the Polish political elite, while what you are quoting are the statements of a leader of a Polish oil company that has been intercepted in rather confusing circumstances. Moreover, we do not even know exactly whether these incriminated sentences were said to comply with the basic rules of the conversation in question, at least in part: " If you talk, do not alcoholicate, or if you are alcoholic, do not talk too much. " Now, from such sentences, you take a sommas opinion on what the Polish Government, the Polish political elite or Poland itself thinks about Hungary in Poland, and once again, following his suspicious and limited sentences to the head of a Polish oil company. I think, Congressman, we can agree here that this is rather frivolous. As far as Zsolt Hernádi is concerned, my honourable fellow Member, it is also obvious that a Member who takes himself seriously, as you certainly are, does not build an interpellation, or at least does not take a position or make a value judgment based on a sentence that has been intercepted in the circumstances that you have just painted and is certainly rather colorful. Therefore, honourable Member, I must also assume that you are well aware of the outcome of the prosecution's proceedings in Zsolt Hernádi's case, and you are well aware of the decision made by the independent Hungarian court on Zsolt Hernádi's case. I myself would prefer to stick to these decisions and orders rather than to the sentences that have been spoken and listened to in rather colorful and strange circumstances. On the other hand, as regards the important issues, honourable Member, I think that Hungary's energy security is an extremely important issue, and this is further supported by recent events in the region. It would be sad, of course, if a parliamentary party were to measure the issues of Hungarian energy security for a Polish businessman's opinion in such a limited-valued discussion. I think that on the issue of energy security in Hungary, it is in the interests of the Hungarian people to serve as a common standard, and I very much hope that this is the case with regard to the Hungarian Socialist Party. In the case of the specific examples mentioned by you, more specifically by the Polish businessman, I would like to tell you that the construction of the South Stream is indeed of strategic interest for Hungary, because at present the European Union does not have a common energy policy that could force agreements between the Member States of the European Union, see the bidirectionalisation of interconnectors with Croatia or Romania. It is also quite clear that Hungary's gas supply must not depend on the internal political or foreign policy relations of a neighbouring country. It is therefore in Hungary's interest to diversify its gas supply routes, so to build the South Stream. As regards the maintenance and development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, let me also say that Hungary has made a good deal, as we can move forward in the field of electricity production, receive a favourable loan, and the 40 percent localisation makes it clear that Hungarian companies can have a serious opportunity here. For us, in the most important economic development programme of the coming decades, it is in the interest of the Hungarian people to measure more than a listening Polish conversation. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-50	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I have also heard what Viktor Orbán said in Brussels that when someone drinks, they should not talk, and if they drink and talk, it is tragedy. But let's face it, it wasn't a class reunion, it was a finance minister and the leader of a large company. The other, referred to by the Secretary of State, is the case of Zsolt Hernádi, and there they are spookily similar to the proceedings in the court and prosecutor's office. So I think that there is work to be done by the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, diplomacy; that if they think of us as such, it is problematic for Hungary as a whole. I don't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-30-52	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 28 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister: " What will be the fate of mining in Hungary? " with the title " Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2014-06-30-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The governments of the last 24 years have watched quietly the closure of the mines in Hungary, the poverty of mining towns. Mining has meant jobs for tens of thousands of people and tens of thousands of families in Hungary. In 1990, mining employed more than 60,000 people in Hungary. In the previous period, there was a much larger number of people, for example at the peak of coal mining in 1964, when production reached its peak, there were 124 thousand people working. In the election programme of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, the resuscitation of domestic mining was a priority among the job creation measures. Based on the surveyed and factual data of geological assets, it can be concluded that the extraction of lignite, oil, natural gas, non-metallic minerals and construction raw materials is also competitive at world market prices. The greatest opportunity is, of course, to reinvigorate coal mining. Let me say two things before you accuse Jobbik of some socialist nostalgia in the reply of the Secretary of State here that mining in Hungary has a tradition of hundreds of years. And, of course, we support the rational exploitation of Hungary's mineral resources, not the insane robbery of the land's wealth. Of course, the ecological interest and the interests of the local people are taken fully into account. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán stated in the campaign to city television: "The government is working to restart the oars training, creating modern mining. " He also had another statement that "now it is almost embarrassing to have sex and want to mine it. " These are the Prime Minister's words, with which we have agreed for Jobbik Hungary Movement and myself, but for now these were just words and we are waiting for them to follow. The Prime Minister of the Government that intends to shut down Hungary's last underground coal mine, the Markushegy coal mine and its associated Liony coal power plant at the end of 2014 with which a total of 675 people's jobs will be endangered or eliminated in particular. [[15.10]] And, of course, through suppliers, hundreds of other families, including about a thousand families, are putting their livelihoods at risk. Dear Minister, What does the government do to give thousands of families the opportunity to make a living by rebooting mining to give young people a vision by developing education related to the profession? What will you do to save the coal mine in Markushegy? I would like you to clarify that it was just an empty campaign promise to restore mining, or that there really is something you wish to do for it. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-54	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-06-30-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, after more than three decades, in 2010, there was a significant change in the assessment of Hungarian mining, including Hungarian coal mining. One of the first and perhaps most impressive parts of this is that in 2011 the Hungarian coal fortune is already an integral part of the national energy strategy adopted by Parliament. The government is counting on the use of significant geological stocks of domestic lignite, black coal and brown coal. This stock of some 8.5 billion tonnes constitutes Hungary's strategic reserve. The feasibility of mining activities is determined by a combination of technical and natural risks, and I will add the question of economy as well. Mining technologies, i.e. the use of surface or underground or coal itself, whether it is a power plant, energy coal, residential coal or even pure coal, are also referred to by you, so the chemical use goal is all determining this process. Allow me to deal specifically with the issue of the Vértes Power Plant you mentioned. The efficiency of the Vértes power plant in Liony is the second lowest in the country, not quite 26 percent. This was preceded by decades and a half of debate. Its operation is clearly uneconomical, which is why the government has asked the European Council to grant state aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines, and this has been done. As a result, on the basis of the application approved in January 2013, the company will be paid nearly HUF 43 billion in the entire support period until 2018. By the way, the Vértes Power Plant uses more than HUF 10 billion to help the more than 600 miners mentioned by you promote the right location, restarting, re-training and other possibilities. As regards future developments in coal mining and the Prime Minister's promise you mentioned, allow for the specifics. The Borsod County coal cluster was established in 2013. We re-opened the mine in wolfhole, in adult education in 2013-14, so we started 32 training courses last year. In the framework of Hungarian-Japanese cooperation, the so-called Clean Coal Programme has advanced, i.e. research and cooperation to support the use of coal in the chemical industry. In addition to maintaining and launching the training of Hungarian mining engineers and miners and other mining professions, I believe that the Hungarian mining industry is experiencing a Renaissance - both mining in general and coal mining in Hungary's near future and further future, as well as Western Europe's practice on this route. That's what I'm asking you to support. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-06-30-56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-06-30-57	Thank you very much. Minister of State, if a member of the Government does not do his work properly, a Secretary of State or a Minister, they will not close the Ministry, but replace the member of the government. So if a power plant doesn't operate with the right efficiency, it doesn't mean that the mine behind it has to be shut down, but perhaps the technology needs to be modernised. I think that in the mine, where hundreds of people work, and where there is only one option to preserve the underground coal mining technology for posterity and perhaps to develop it further, it should not be closed, it is a national treasure, and Jobbik will continue to stand up for the people who live there, for it is one of the most important employers in the area, I will say it again. There has been no shortage of fine words, but promises or deeds still do not follow. We think it was just an empty campaign stunt, and there's no real content behind it. We stand for the re-launch of domestic mining. This seems to be waiting for a future Jobbik government. [[Rumble and clear from the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-58	Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 97 votes in favour, 29 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Prime Minister's Office: "Does the government want to bring rural development resources into place for those who need it? " The title is given below. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2014-06-30-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The Minister has become a target by receiving rural development funds, which raises the most questions. Looking back over the last five years, we see that about HUF 8800 billion of development resources have come from the European Union budget to Hungary, but we also see that the southern lowland region, the northern lowland region and the northern Hungarian region have remained between the most backward regions of the European Union. Obviously, the question may arise that if we have used such large amounts of money, then how can everything not benefit. Most importantly, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to my question of the fact that the government is considering the structure that is laying the foundations for the application systems in its present form. Basically, the sources of tender which require pre-financing by applicants narrow the range of applicants very, very much. Basically, any small economic development proposal, any community-building proposal that needs to be funded by a civil society organisation, a small enterprise, especially when it comes to a targeted 1-5 company or a 6-50 company, is a heavy burden on them, and very, very many cannot do so, and this narrows down the target group of those who can do it. In the last five years, there have been candidates who have made sacrifices in order to improve and, to this end, have taken out loans to their existing assets and have tried to prefinance the schemes. Unfortunately, unlike the local government consolidation, no one has ever reimbursed these loans to businesses and investors, because when it had to be financed, there practically a 10-percent average loan generated additional costs for each applicant. This is a very big problem. It's a problem because people who don't have one can't apply. Those who have no assets and cannot take credit are excluded from the tendering system or are not excluded from the scheme, but are excluded from the scheme. Those who do not have the capital to prefinance can't get access to these resources, and this, as a contrasting effect, creates that these sources of tender are most likely to reach where they already are, and where the most should be helped, the most should be created and cannot get there. In this direction, I asked the Minister what he had in mind, what he had in mind to remove this contrastive effect. How can the government make sure that subsidies that will arrive in the next five years really reach the target group rather than maintain an inappropriate structure? This is what most clearly concerns the countryside, because despite the fact that there is a lot of money for investments that do not create sustainable jobs, but only during a period of time, they do not solve the rural problem. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-06-30-61	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman, Last week I told you, when you asked me an immediate question about the proportion of rural development resources and their financing, that my colleague, State Secretary for Rural Development, Mr Miklós Kis, has been at your disposal, and I hope that you have had an opportunity and opportunity for professional consultation. [[15.20]] Thank you for asking this question, which is now not about content, but about feasibility and sustainability, financing. If you'll allow me, I'd like to take this opportunity to touch the contents for a few sentences. Hungary can spend HUF 1014-1050 billion on rural development between 2014 and 2020 - this does not, of course, include the system of land-based aid or aid with the right of the subject. In this tender system, which I would not really call a tendering system, we set the goal of making the countryside more livable than today, trying to increase the local capacity of the countryside, to expand the life opportunities of the people born there so that they do not have to migrate, and to be able to thrive on the basis of their natural resources and their workforce, ability, talent and diligence. It's not like that today. If you look at rural settlements, their population ratio, demographic processes, you can see that the population of the country's most disadvantaged settlements is significantly reduced, and even the country's northern, eastern border, and even the south-west part, because small communities are unable to provide a livelihood. Our most important goal is to make this money the condition of this livelihood, by trying to support what the European Union gives us. We believe that we can do this most quickly and most effectively if it becomes economic aid, basically agricultural support, so the concept of rural development with agricultural support and agricultural development can be a synonymous concept for entrepreneurs. This debate is still taking place with the European Commission. The operational programme, which you know well from the previous period, is being finalised by my colleagues, but we have good hope that we can pool resources from large to small. I consider it a failure that 70-80 percent of rural development resources or land-based support have come to the big ones in the last seven years and not to the small ones. I believe that this is a matter of cause and effect in connection with the deterioration of the countryside's ability to maintain and the social trends that we are all forced to face as members of the rural Parliament. As regards the instruments, the government should develop a methodology for allocating funds in July, August and September. The Prime Minister has envisaged for the government that the first proposals should be published at the end of August, which will be primarily applications for economic development and those managed by the Ministry of Economy, but also for rural development: transparency, simplicity, and, if possible, the reduction of organisations and organisations that were used to pump tender money, but less to implement it. This is the purpose of the structure of the new institutional system. Funding is a major issue, since most of the applicants, even those to whom the money would apply or where the money should be sent, have not been able to do so in the case of pre-financing applications. This is why we launched the pre-financing fund in November 2012, in which our colleagues paid 10 billion in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, so we are planning a loan with a maximum of HUF 50 million, granted by a 15-year government financial organisation, because we do not want to allow the market banking system to broadcast EU funds. We want to provide resources through the Hungarian Development Bank [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the drawing up and implementation of advances. So there will be a financial instrument that can make it easier to apply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-62	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the minister's answer.
u2014-06-30-63	Minister, thank you very much for your reply and thank you for your time in person. A week ago, I asked mostly about the groups between the two pillars of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the progressive support system for the single application, and I have now expanded this issue a little bit, because I wanted to point out how much it would be necessary for the application systems to help applicants much more. I am pleased with the credit opportunities, but I would really calm down and accept your answer if I could see this free-of-interest practical implementation in a tendering cycle, if I could see that all the organisations that are worthy of it and which can provide coverage could receive the tender in pre-financing. These would really reassure me, and that's when I could actually accept your answer. Let me add so much to what has been said that, in addition to rural development resources, I will interpret it a little more broadly, since all regional development funds are also for the same purpose and would require the same mechanism. So thank you very much for your answer, and I can't accept that right now, but thank you. [[Defiance. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-06-30-64	Thank you, Congressman. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 100 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Németh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: " How does the cooperation of the Visegrád countries contribute to Hungary's energy independence? " with the title " Mr Zsolt Németh has the floor.
u2014-06-30-65	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Today the last year of the Hungarian Visegrád Presidency will end, and the year and a half we have called the Central European Year will end. This year and a half was the presidential period of the Central European initiative and the Visegrád cooperation, the long Central European year. I believe that the issue of energy was perhaps the most fruitful area of cooperation between Visegrád and the Central European initiative. We have been able to achieve very serious results, and this energy diversification in Central Europe can produce significant results. Let me refer to the Hungarian-Slovak connection, but perhaps we can also refer to the Hungarian-Romanian and Hungarian-Croatian connection. Once those LNG terminals are completed, this connection will mean a real diversification opportunity for Hungary and the region, just as our connection to the so-called Southern Corridor has not vanished at all. After all, the design of the Greek, Bulgarian, Romanian and Hungarian gas corridors started very spectacularly and quickly, and this could ultimately be a very excellent replacement for that particular Nabucco gas pipeline. But not only have we made progress in the field of energy diversification, but solidarity with the Eastern Partnership Member States was also a fruitful sector of Visegrád cooperation in the field of energy - let me refer to the supply of gas to Ukraine. Hungary is the most important western supplier of so-called reverse transports to Ukraine today, but it has now concluded a similar agreement with Slovakia, and Poland is also delivering large quantities of gas to Ukraine in the current crisis. In fact, we can also report on the results of the planning of the future, as the European Energy Union, which is outlined in the Polish proposal, enjoys the support of all Visegrad countries, and ultimately the extension of the single market to energy is the essence of the proposal. We have something to be proud of, Mr. Secretary. The festive event, I think, is, at the same time, an excellent opportunity to appreciate where we are, what we have achieved and what will happen in the coming period. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask the Secretary of State how the energy cooperation of the V4 will serve Hungary's foreign policy objectives and the independence of our country's energy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-66	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Szijjártó.
u2014-06-30-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Member of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Thank you very much for the interpellation, because we were once again given the opportunity to talk about important issues here in Parliament, given that today the Hungarian Visegrád Presidency period really ends, the most important priority of which was to improve energy security in the region. [[15.30]] This is no coincidence, since the Hungarian government has been one of the most important since 2010, perhaps I could say that its national strategy objective is to reduce our energy dependency and move forward in the field of energy independence. During our Visegrád Presidency, we have tried to increase our energy independence in three respects. These three aspects will continue in the future in that when we think about eliminating our energy dependence and making decisions, we do so on the basis of these considerations. The first is regional energy market integration, which means, on the one hand, the development of infrastructure links and, on the other hand, the harmonisation of the regulatory environment, i.e. the latter which allows the efficient functioning of the energy market, thereby increasing competition and, ultimately, the reduction of consumer prices. In this regard, allow me, Mr President, to draw your attention to two steps. One of them is that we have been able to connect the Hungarian and Slovak gas pipeline networks. Based on the current plans, this could serve as a commercial traffic from the very beginning of next year. And while we are talking about interconnectors, let us not forget that in 2010, we handed over an interconnector to Romania and one to Croatia, but so far our partners are indebted to the investments that would allow meaningful two-way distribution on these interconnectors. In addition, we have launched the V4 Gas Market Forum, which aims to promote market integration; besides connecting gas pipeline systems, we have also been able to move forward in the area of interconnection of electricity networks. There is currently an integrated Hungarian-Slovak-Czech electricity market in Central Europe. During our Visegrád Presidency, the Poles have indicated the need to join it, and the construction and preparation of this integrated market for Romania and Serbia will begin, so the interconnection of electricity markets will be an important task in the future. As a second aspect, during the Visegrád Presidency, we maintained the position of the Visegrád Four to allow each Member State within the European Union to define the energyigamix itself, the energy mix that it considers to be the most favourable in terms of its economic, natural and social capabilities. Here we have an important role to play in the use of domestic resources, whether nuclear energy or shale gas extraction. Thirdly, Hungary has taken serious steps to ensure that the Visegrád Four also close cooperation with external actors in the diversification of procurement resources. You have mentioned the discussions with Romanian, Bulgarian and Greek partners in building the necessary infrastructure for natural gas from the Caspian region to the European Union, but I would also like to bring it to you, Mr President, that we have succeeded in lobbying in Washington in order to allow US exports of natural gas in the form of liquefied natural gas [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Your permission to speed up. In order to do this, legislation was adopted in the first step in Congress. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the Member, President of the Commission, whether he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2014-06-30-69	Mr. President. In questions of energy, we can see that from one moment to the next we have moved from Ukraine to America, and the role of cooperation in Visegrád is inevitable; it is inevitable in this and in the successful implementation of many other foreign policy issues. It is important to be aware that we managed to implement at least 100 events here in Hungary during the year of the Visegrád Presidency and 150 other events in the world, which were basically cultural events. There's work to be done on Visegrád cooperation. I think it is important that we see the results of the last year, summarize them, make them available to the Hungarian public and to the international public. Thank you very much. The answer is accepted. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-70	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dezső, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: " Why is it so expensive if it is national? " The title is given below. Mr. Dezső, who is gullible, is to be heard.
u2014-06-30-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Among the parking services used in the capital is the possibility of making payments with mobile phones. Every year, the number of users increases, not by accident. The service works reliably, easy and quick to use. People get used to it, know it, and like it. The municipalities operating the parking system have concluded advantageous contracts for the use of mobile payment services. The city is XIII. In its district - in my constituency - the municipality paid HUF 5 million a year for the service. The system can therefore be operated at a quality level. Practically no customer complaint, definitely, dynamically improved system - up until today. From 1 July - according to a 2011 law - you can only sign with the National Mobile Payment Ltd. for 87 million. For what the market says is worth $5 million! Which is high-quality for 5 million forints, you have to pay 17 times more. Why is that? Just because a company that calls itself national is the beneficiary? It would be national if the nation, the people, the municipalities that represent them were cheaper, safer, but not so. One more day, they'll trade the reliable for the insecure, the cheap for the expensive, the usual for the unknown. There is one day left, but you do not hear anything about how the new system will work, how it will be better, more modern than before, so in view of the above, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State why the same service costs some operators 17 times the same service at the National Mobile Payment Corporation. Can you guarantee the smooth operation of mobile parking from July 1st? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-72	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-06-30-73	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I do not agree with your finding that the system that started on 1 July would be unduly more expensive or that it would not be able to guarantee a higher standard than it currently is. The current system of mobile parking in Hungary is not uniform. Local government-owned parking companies contract separately with their mobile payment partner, usually entrusting two companies to one, a few larger districts, a larger city or a few districts. At the same time, most of the parking companies contract with the same mobile payment company, so virtually there is a monopolistic situation at the moment, and citizens can use virtually only one parking and mobile payment service. On the other hand, the mobile payment system launched on 1 July provides a single mobile payment platform. Under the same conditions, mobile payment resellers can join the system and sell all local authorities' parking services in such a way that they do not have to enter into separate contracts with each parking company. At the start of the system on 1 July, mobile parking services can be used by six resellers, practically throughout the country. The number of resellers will continue to increase during the autumn. This allows for the inclusion of customer numbers and innovations that are unthinkable in the current monopoly model. The main benefit of the national mobile payment system is therefore its ability to ensure competition and innovation in public parking services under uniform conditions by guaranteeing an adequate level of public service. Uniform conditions are also reflected in the system's costs of use. Parking companies are obliged to pay the 10 per cent fee laid down in the legislation, but - and I think you do not dispute that - the so-called convenience fees collected from citizens have increased significantly. In the new system, pricing is transparent, the same level for all municipalities, but at the same time allows it to stop, and we hope that in the medium term the direction of the increase in convenience fees will be reversed. [[15.40]] The national mobile payment system is backed by a well-prepared and tested IT infrastructure and professional staff, capable of providing mobile parking services from 1 July to more than the previous municipalities and with the involvement of more resellers. I am therefore convinced that, in the electoral district of the new mobile payment platform, which is due to the national mobile payment system, it will further promote electronic payment solutions. So I'm asking you to monitor this and I hope you'll support it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-06-30-75	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Sadly, I cannot accept his answer because, although I am " gullible,'we should not be naive. So I think that the system that has the advantage, as opposed to what has worked so far, is a unified system, but it costs 17 times as much, I think that this represents an unacceptable increase for a district government. And let us not be naive because I think that such a harsh state intervention among the players in the market could obviously mean additional measures on the part of the injured. I do not find it unthinkable that this may move in the direction that the municipalities will increase the parking fee, since they need to create a significant difference between HUF 5 million and HUF 87 million from somewhere. I also hope, in addition to the fact that I am unfortunately unable to accept your answer, that the system will remain operational from 1 July. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-06-30-76	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes to 37, without abstention. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: " How can you demand the payment of tax on blocked incomes from the victims of ScienNet and order implementation in this regard? " with the title " Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2014-06-30-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As known, ScientNet's main buyer system was established in November 2009 on suspicion of tax fraud causing a tax deficit of around HUF 800 million by the investigation of customs and financial police. At the beginning of the investigation phase of about half a decade, the accounts of ScienNet's regular customers were closed, and 442,000 people in the ScienNet system, untaxed but not yet used as income, and their already taxed income was frozen before Christmas, in the hope of a cheaper purchase. This is only incomprehensible because these amounts were kept in a separate escrow account in accordance with the provisions of PSZF following its investigation at ScienNet in 2008-2009, and were therefore separated from other funds of ScienNet. However, the investigation has not yet been completed. Last August, I contacted you on a written question about this, or Minister, who at the time replied that the request for legal aid was still being examined by the foreign authorities, i.e. the competent national authorities are waiting for a foreign investigative material to be received. That was a year ago, I stress. In his reply, he also informed that, during various checks, NAV saw persons who had income from the ScientNet system and had either failed to acknowledge them, or that their tax returns had been subsequently modified, the income actually credited by ScienNet was no longer recorded. Following my correspondence with Minister ScienNet, several of his former regular customers contacted me, who all informed me that they could not pay their tax obligations mentioned by the Minister because of the frequent customer accounts blocked by NAV, since they had not been able to obtain their money for almost half a decade. For example, in the case of Viktor Tátrai's regular customer, this failure to pay taxes meant the seizure of all his assets by NAV, while he still has nearly HUF 40 million stuck in the ScienNet system today. I could also mention the case of György Svajer, who has all of his investments and savings, i.e. about HUF 26 million of his NAV frozen in his main buyer account, while his house will soon be auctioned for tax back taxes. Unfortunately, there are still many other people in the same shoes. on the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: how long will it take to deal with ScientNet for half a decade? When can more than 400,000 victims, including those whose commissions were closed in 2009 and whose tax savings NAV had already been transferred, finally get their money, but now they want to take their homes and other assets away from them because of tax returns? Do you consider it appropriate to recover tax returns in these circumstances? If not, will implementations be stopped? Are there any moral or financial compensation for those ScienNet, or are they now more NAV-damaged by the tax authorities for half a decade now? Dear Secretary of State, Many of the stakeholders are now following the work of the Parliament, and with them I look forward to an honored and reassuring response. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-30-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-06-30-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you know, I hope, at least, that the procedures of the tax authority and their exact rules will be strictly regulated by the legislation, so the National Tax and Customs Office can only carry out its work, examine or refrain from carrying out a procedure accordingly. As you said in your interpellation, your question is on an ongoing criminal case. The 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings However, according to the provisions of law, information on these matters may be provided or communicated to the public only with the permission of the Public Prosecutor's Office. A person who has legal and non-political interests and can prove that he can apply for authorisation. As far as the duration of the proceedings is concerned, the investigation into ScientNet is currently being conducted by the NAV's Directorate-General for Criminal Affairs, the Central Investigator's Department. This procedure was indeed suspended under the Law on Criminal Procedure because the foreign authority has not yet received a reply to the Hungarian request. The procedure can only be continued if the foreign judicial authorities fulfil the requirements of the legal aid application, i.e. they send the Hungarian authorities the results of the investigative work they have carried out. In view of all this, the duration of the investigation is currently within the legally available time. According to our data so far, the tax deficit caused is about HUF 800 million in total, but this amount may be changed if further details are found. And I cannot disclose information about individuals specifically named in the interpellation because, of course, they are also subject to tax rules, which cannot be overwritten with an interpellation question, even if you do so otherwise. Honourable Congressman, I accept that the Members of Parliament are trying to protect the rights of citizens who, if in good faith, still face the law. At the same time, however, it cannot be forgotten that control, enforcement or criminal proceedings are initiated for a reason, that cannot be intervened on a government side in relation to a written question or interpellation, even if this is done or requested by an opposition, a better representative. Procedures may be closed when cases are fully and demonstrably identified. You will also have to wait for the closure of criminal justice by international authorities and national authorities. With all due respect, I ask you to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-06-30-81	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you're talking about legislation, pending cases, while you're accusing me of political gain, by the way. I'm talking about human fates and good morals, Mr. Secretary of State. He hasn't said a word about it, and it might have been interesting why this investigation has been going on for five years, why this investigation doesn't arrive from abroad, why. He's also talking about me, just like everyone else, waiting for this legal deadline to expire, because this investigation is now taking place within a legal deadline. Now, Mr Secretary of State, this 300 or 400 thousand stakeholders are interested not in the legal deadline, but in their own problems. If I and they have to wait for the legal deadline, then why does the NAV not wait for the legal deadline and demand taxes, tax backs, money that those involved cannot otherwise obtain because their money has been blocked? [[15.50]] This question - and this is the most important question, Mr Secretary - has not been answered. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I can't accept your answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-82	Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: " Is Hungary really performing better? Why can't Gambling Zrt. be trusted? " The title is given below. Congressman Csaba Tóth has the floor.
u2014-06-30-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In August 2013, the idea was that ten rural casinos would be allowed to operate for ten years in the context of a private concession tender. True, at that time they did not know on what basis candidates would be selected. At the end of last year, a bill was submitted stating that the Minister of Industry may refrain from issuing a public concession tender if a concession contract is concluded with a reliable gambling organizer. Therefore, anyone who is considered reliable can obtain the right of concession without the tender to open a casino. The bill will even support those who are lucky to be trusted, as it will immediately ensure that a concession fee can be deducted from the toy tax. There is no such discount anywhere in Europe. So they're better, and the state's worse off because it's a loss of revenue for the budget. According to the legal amendment adopted, 11 casinos in Hungary can obtain operating licenses, of which five will operate in the capital and in the county of Pest. Currently there are two arcades, their license is valid until the end of the year. One of them is downtown or Tropicana Casino, which is Szerencségyág Zrt. is operated by the other Las Vegas Casino. Exactly one month after the parliamentary elections in April, the Minister of National Economy published his decision that Las Vegas Kft. acquired the right to operate five casinos in Budapest and Pest county, while Aranybónusz 2000 Kft. has won two concessions for East Hungary. According to the Ministry of National Economy, both winners are reliable taxpayers, which is why they received concessions. In addition to the further operation of Las Vgas' current casino, you will be able to open four new casinos. One of these is likely to mean taking over Tropicana if you can agree on the purchase price with the public company. I mean, it's Gambling Co. may no longer operate its installed, functioning casino. Gambling Zrt. As a public firm, he applied for all 11 casino concessions, but he didn't win any. We don't know what's going to happen to Zrt. We are currently discussing the type of gambling that the company can best contribute to budget revenues - said the national economy portfolio. In these respects, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: why do you think that he is not a reliable gambler Szerencségy Zrt.? Why didn't you win Gambling Zrt. Not a single concession? Is it because the public company is not transparent enough or a reliable taxpayer? Finally, why does the state give up billions of forints each year for the benefit of private companies? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-06-30-84	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-06-30-85	[[He starts his comment without a microphone.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Before you shed crocodile tears for Gambling Zrt....
u2014-06-30-86	Mr. Secretary, the pick-up mic. [[András Tállai puts his microphone on.]] Reset the clock, please. [[It's happening.]]
u2014-06-30-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Excuse me. So before you, as a socialist representative, shed crocodile tears for Szerencségy Zrt. and its revenues, let us recall the period when you governed, although you were not a Member of Parliament at the time, but you wanted to sell and privatize Szerencségy Zrt. in 2004, 2007 and 2008. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] There were no professional arguments, but only political arguments were made as to why Szerencségy Zrt. should be handed over to investors and private owners, together with state gambling management rights. At one point, the argument was even raised that it is because European Union law wants to do so. That obviously wasn't true. Ferenc Gyurcsány wanted to sell Szerencség Zrt. to private people in the new ownership program. [[Lajos Korózs: Talk about Andy Vajna, Andrew!]] Let's talk about what Minister of Finance John Veres wanted. He said in the amendment of the 2007 tax laws that "this provision allows not only seven U.S. type casinos to operate at the same time in the territory of the country, but also for the development of a whole casino city in each region. " If these experiential cities were to be realised, they would have been organised around first-class casinos, with 20 plus 10 years of operating concession purchased from the state. What did the Socialist Party want? He wanted to sell it twice as much, with a good bid, of course. The Socialist Government has proposed three projects in particular. The amendment of the tax and gambling rules at the end of 2007 was adopted by Parliament in a salad law. An analyst then wrote that the Gyurcsány and then the Bajnai-cabin in decisions on casino cities followed the needs and schedule of developers, investors in everything. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So the socialists wanted to privatize the entire Gambling Zrt. and state rights according to investors' expectations. In 2009, a casino was sold, this was King's City, which was announced as a tender for which this one tender was received and, of course, it was won. Later, the Fidesz government had to resign because of lawlessness. I am asking you, Congressman, if your question to the Fidesz government about gambling is credible. Is it authentic when Fidesz created the possibility that, on the one hand, Gambling Zrt. to remain fully state-owned, and certain gambling activities remained entirely in a state monopoly? There are two types in Europe [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Talk about Vajna!]] and three: the total state, the fully liberalised [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and the mixed system. They also follow the mixed system in Hungary. As far as the casino contest is concerned, anyone in Hungary could apply if they met the requirement of a reliable gambling operator. The condition of this is that he should not have a tax debt, and in Hungary he should have experience as a gambling organizer. Several of them applied for this casino, and most of them were Hungarian-owned gambling organisers, and among them Hungarian-owned gambling organizers also won this right at the decision of the Minister of National Economy. Your question is discredited. Gambling organisation of Fidesz and Socialist governments [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: "Andy" is a Hungarian name, right?]] His practice and politics cannot be compared because the socialists served private interests [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And Fidesz is in the interest of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-06-30-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, you haven't said a word about billionaire dividends. I'm sure it's not a coincidence. Well, let's take a look at the numbers and see how they turned out. Las Vegas Casino's turnover in 2012 was 3.8 billion forints and increased to 6.2 billion for 2013. Its profits increased from 683 million to 1 billion 970 million. And your dividend - and now listen. - It grew from 581 million to HUF 1 billion 680 million in a year. The same thing grew from 2.8 to 7.2 in Tropicana, with profits from 747 to HUF 2 billion to 380 billion. And then there's another bonus for them. The concession fee must be paid double to the reliable, which is about 700 million forints per casino in Budapest per year, which you can write down from the gaming tax. This bonus has been given to the lucky winners, the lucky ones who can be trusted. So it's not hard to calculate Las Vegas one year after five casinos [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] 8-10 billion forints will receive dividends. I cannot accept your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-06-30-90	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. [[16.00]] Dear Parliament, We'll go to the hour of immediate questions and answers. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would ask my fellow Members to do so as soon as possible. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: " When do you want to resign, Minister? " The title is given below. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to answer the question because of an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Zoltán Lukács:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Luke.
u2014-06-30-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, I will ask you this question, and obviously you can consult your boss on this question, Miklós Seszták, who has been appointed Minister of Development. At the beginning of the 2000s he was a lawyer in Kisvárda for almost 600 partnership companies, all of these companies were registered by Ukrainian entrepreneurs, Ukrainian citizens, all of them for the same three titles in Kisvárda, and these companies disappeared a few years later, all 600 of them, and these 600 companies left behind a very significant public debt and tax debt. If someone is involved in the formation of 600 missing tax fraud companies as a lawyer, let me think - it can't be a coincidence. Obviously, Mr Seszták had to know that these Ukrainian gentlemen may not have set up 600 companies with fair intentions registered for a total of three titles. Then Miklós Seszták, as a Member of Parliament, also arranged - exactly last year - for five offshore companies to win HUF 12.5 billion from the 20 billion EU tender for the development of the broadband cable network. The five winning companies were registered on the same day, interestingly registered to the same address, with an interesting connection to the previous registered companies. In the supervisory board of one of these Cypriot-owned offshore companies, Miklós Seszták himself sat there as a supervisory board member; this was the company investing in Enternet Invest. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I think with a background like that and a case like that behind her back, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] No one is fit to be Minister for Development, so I ask (The President bells.) When you intend to remove Mr. Sesztas from the government. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-92	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-06-30-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Minister Miklós Seszták does not wish to resign, he has no reason, no basis, and I would say in good faith that you are wrong, but no, you are slanderous. You go far beyond what can be said in an expression of opinion, because you are well aware of the facts and, accordingly, you are basically and untrue in bad faith. Miklós Seszták's legal activity dates back to the beginning of the 2000s in the event of the rise of a multi-level marketing system, when there is no direct link between the establishment and termination of deposit companies, neither with the legal activity nor with the ministerial mandate. Miklós Seszták's legal activities are linked to the operation and possible termination of these partnership companies - in the majority of cases, it has not ceased, except in Hungary, but in Ukraine - as if you, Tatabányai Handball Kft. We'd like to take the results of the city handball team to the chairman of his supervisory board. Miklós Seszták really acted as a lawyer in the establishment of these companies, which were created because such companies could not be registered in Ukraine at the time. Hundreds have been created in this country, with legal activity, good budget payments, so your claim that the budget has been damaged is not true. No, the law work isn't related to that, anyway. By the way, I would like to confirm that some of these deposit companies are still operating successfully, and that no damage has been caused by those who have completed their work in liquidation. Changes in Hungarian and Ukrainian legislation [[The president's ringing the bell.]] explained both the large number and the change in the operating area, but you are aware of that. [[Sándor Burány: Aha! We didn't know that before.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-94	Thank you very much. Congressman, you have the opportunity to rejoinder in one minute.
u2014-06-30-95	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State that if you speak of the handball of Tatabánya, you may add that you are a miner, because that is good for us. By the way, the team is working well, thank you very much. I think there are places to decide what is slander and what is truth, of course. Here the minister's role in offshore companies was not mentioned by the Secretary of State, obviously because there are not very good answers to that. I believe that the expressive smiles we have seen in your response from your faction suggest that there is no such deep conviction behind these harsh and definite words. Look, Secretary of State, I appreciate you, and I know that you are most uncomfortable to talk about such matters, because there is no doubt in your honour, which is why I would suggest that Mr. Miklós Seszták, if he were to be replaced, you could find a more credible man. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-96	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder. [[Attila Móring József will replace Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]]
u2014-06-30-97	I'm sure it's Tatabányai Handball Ltd. He'd find someone more credible than you. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] I'm not making these assumptions, because I don't know about handball, and I don't know about your activities there. [[Zoltán Lukács: I haven't been there in three years!]] I'm sure the team will take advantage of this, but at the same time, I'm asking you not to go along with such assumptions and with so much public statements, because then you can easily hide behind the immunity of your representatives, of course. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] But I'm asking you, when you really do have that accounted for, you're gonna have to remember the words you said before. By the way, you can't find any catch on any of the issues you've told the Minister, so I'm asking you to find some other basis. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Is there another basis?]] Whether it's political or professional. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm sure your fellow factions will be of help. I thank them in advance.
u2014-06-30-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: " What will become of prosperity here? " The title is given below. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a result of an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[16.10]]
u2014-06-30-99	The Minister's person is surrounded by our appreciation, but due to the importance of the question, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-100	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The End Days of the Hungarian Land. " The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the mark of Zsolt Egyed:]] He indicated that he did, so Mr Zsolt Egyed should be the one to speak.
u2014-06-30-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, We can tell you that after the cessation of the Earth Moratorium two months ago, what we were afraid of happened. The following ad was published on the Agririnform website: " 85 hectares of agricultural land in the district of Mezőcsát is available exclusively abroad prospective owners or tenants. The area is not for sale to locals and Hungarians. Foreigners are preferred by the seller even if they are hired or bought at a lower price. " [[Intercom from the pro-government benches.]] Yeah, that's what I expected you to say, "provoking." That's exactly why my colleagues and I have spent the last few days looking into the advertiser. This advertiser is a real advertiser, there is a real company behind him, there is a Slovak company behind him, there is a Hungarian company behind him, and this advertiser received land-based support for this land in 2013. Going on: the company's owner is a resident of Igric, who is available on the phone by the way, if the number in the advertisement is called by anyone, he will answer the phone. The question arises, which we Jobbikians had in the previous cycle, when the earth traffic law was finalized, we raised it in Parliament, and we did everything we could to ensure that this disgrace did not happen, so that the last value of the nation, the land of the nation, the motherland left to us by our ancestors, would not be played into the hands of aliens by such foreign-hearted people. I must say, after what has happened, that unfortunately, the Minister and your government have assisted in this recently, they have done nothing to prevent these outrageous things from happening. Once again, the question arises whether they want to do something in the last moments or if they are willing to do something to remedy this shameful situation. I'm waiting for your explanation, Minister. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-30-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-06-30-103	Mr President, Dear House of Representatives, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Fidesz fully agrees with Jobbik's group on the importance of the land, i.e. the importance of protecting agricultural land in Hungary, but in 2004 the majority of Hungarian voters decided that Hungary should become a member of the European Union. In the European Union, the European Commission is struggling to enforce rules on land trade and land sale. On the other hand, we wanted to create a land traffic law after the moratorium was not passed by the European Commission. In the Land Traffic Act, we took the example of Austria and France, where it is essential for agricultural activity to continue and for the acquisition of land to carry out a lifelong agricultural activity. In Hungary, according to the new land traffic law, 9,5 million Hungarian citizens have been deprived of the right to purchase land, as the number of people who carry out lifelong agricultural activities is estimated to be half a million. This is added to the legal consequences of living locally, so not only must agricultural activity be carried out on a life-long basis, but also to be resident locally. We have set up a set of requirements, an obstacle course, for which Hungary is facing infringement proceedings from Brussels. So, while you are asking us that this is not enough, Brussels is asking us that this is too much, and even that we are forced from Brussels to open up the possibility of obtaining the land for companies. I would give the Earth Traffic Act years in any way to try it together, but I think it is important to investigate the specific case. So I am prepared to have the government's audit office examine the specific matter, if the Member precisely identifies it. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-104	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder.
u2014-06-30-105	Then I'd like to continue, Minister, where I just left off. You have drawn attention to the conditions of access to land. This advertisement also includes a property in the area for 13 million HUF to be embedded in legality on some level. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: The special authority procedure!]] I say that what the law also gives us is that the Hungarian State always has a pre-emptive right. I would like to ask whether if the Minister investigates and finds out that there is indeed a case of lawlessness, will the Hungarian State or the Hungarian Government in this case exercise the right to purchase the land to protect it from foreigners. Once again, I thank the Minister very much for his offer and urge him to look into the matter. I will give you all the documents you need, and I ask the Minister to inform me on the outcome of this case.
u2014-06-30-106	Thank you, Congressman. The Minister should be rejoined.
u2014-06-30-107	Thank you very much. Before answering your specific questions, which were addressed in the final part of your rejoinder, I would like to add a specific answer: in addition to the fact that the land author has to carry out life-like agricultural activities, he must still have an adequate education and live locally. There is an official procedure that you must go through; and if that is not enough, sooner or later the local land committees that stand up will exercise social control. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin's intervention.]] I'm sorry. Today, the regionally competent agricultural chamber, which is an elected majority of society, carries out this social control. In the specific case, we are ready to investigate, and we are waiting for the specific data to be able to do so. If the legal conditions for pre-purchase are met, the Hungarian State is, of course, ready to use the pre-purchase in each case. Financial collateral is available for NFA. I would like the congressman to be able to help me get the data. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-108	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Did the "land for farmers'program work well in the light of Lőrinc Mészáros's wealth statement? " with the title " The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Mr Bitay Márton Örs to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Sallai R. Benedek:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2014-06-30-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you so much for coming in and honoring me with your presence. The question arises as to how the "land for farmers " programme has been effective in recent years. There are basically three outstanding threats to the domestic soil structure. One of the dangers I consider to be the possibility of finding land for foreigners or people in the Member States. In part, Congressman Zsolt Egyed pointed out this. A very big problem is the expansion of the large estate structure. A week ago, Minister Lazarus and I had an exchange of views on this issue. The third issue is clearly the efficient use of public land and how the ownership structure of public land can serve employment objectives. (In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér Replaced by Attila Móring József.) Among the government's efforts, we have seen that the government intends to put a stop to the large estate structure at some level by announcing or considering a progressive support system. In parallel, we would expect the state, with a similar effort in the land domain policy, to be able to support as little as possible. Overall, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State not to say in his reply what the previous government did in front of the Orbán Cabinet, because I do not care what it should be like. So I'm not interested in how bad it was before, and now we're getting a little more farmers, what I'm interested in is what we need. It is clear from the experience, even if I do not name names, there is a Mayor of Felcsúti who has an interest of 1327 hectares, Csákvári Agrád Zrt. in Fejér county. and its general staff, Lajos Gerzsánszki, is an entrepreneur in Csongrád county. We can clearly see that Grandma, Budapest university girl has applied, and in all family conditions this land has not been used as it should have been, and the majority of the agricultural land has come to a smaller group. Can we expect a change in that? [[16.20]]
u2014-06-30-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2014-06-30-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman, I'm glad we could have a word about this. What I would like to say to you and answer you in the structure you have given me: the growth of foreigners, large plants and the efficiency of state lands, if I may, I would like to talk about the efficiency of the use of state lands, in particular, because of the shortness of time. What I can tell you very briefly is that in 2010, when we started to govern, the 600,000 hectares of state land was covered by about 600 contracts; in 2014, when the previous Orbán government ceased to operate, it was in a significantly smaller area, but for all state land, there were over 6,000 contracted partners of the State. I could say he's banging open doors. You, too, say - and we agree on this - that as many smaller farmers as possible should be allowed in public lands, so the result is that we have tenfold the number of people using the state land. What you said about Csákvár, we're talking about 5,000 acres. The 5,000 hectares in 2010 are a piece of kft. Rented; now the State has more than 40 contracted partners in the same area. Either way, it's 40 times the previous one, and it's working again in the direction that we've been trying to help the smaller ones. While we used to talk about 1000 hectares of average estates, as a result of the " land for farmers " programme, the average was about 30-40 hectares. I would like to stress that 82 percent of the winners are natural persons who have won almost 80 percent of the land. So it is not that very little has won very many natural persons, but very much has won very many natural persons. In particular, the proportion of young farmers is outstanding, they have won nearly 40,000 hectares only and only young farmers; in this part of Csákvár, too, several young farmers have won. So what I can tell you is that he's banging open doors. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We're pushing the system in this direction, too. [[The president's ringing again.]] The "land for farmers" programme gives public land to small and medium-sized businesses in the family. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-112	Thank you very much. Mr. Sallai R. Benedek is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2014-06-30-113	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Most of all, I would point out that the numbers alone are meaningless: if the same interest group is the one who owns these lands, then there is no meaningful change. I specifically asked you not to tell me how it was before, because we know it was bad, and we know that we needed a change, but the question is what direction the change went in. You are here: Mezort Zrt. belonging to the interests of Lajos Simicska and Zsolt Nyerges. Under different companies, 59 parts of the land are used at various places at preferential rates from NFA systems; in Sándor Csányi's interests there is also a large pile of land; and I do not want to list the names because there is little time. It is clear that despite saying the same thing, the practice that we see is quite different: the land does not reach a good part of the farmers because it has practically only been divided into names, and this does not have an occupational impact. It is not about how many natural persons the applicant is, but how many people make a living out of it. And as long as we do not expect them to be farmers in a way of life, this programme will not help to stay locally and local employment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-30-114	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State should be rejoined.
u2014-06-30-115	With regard to employment, honourable Member, I would like to tell you that it is only a few percent of these land where new users have already come into possession. So you're trying to tell me how many people you've hired when these new users haven't even come into possession. By the way, what you mentioned, for example, is the Wheatkalász 66 Kft. In his case, he works for 160 families, dealing with 800 cattle, thousands of pigs. He won in that area because he applied alone in more than three quarters of that area, he was a valid candidate, so he won. So ask me for something, dear, which I will do with all my might to move something forward, but where you haven't even taken possession, you can't tell me why you haven't hired employees. Well, next year and two years from now, we're gonna be taking possession of it, and that's when we're gonna see what it's gonna be like. And don't expect to hire hundreds of people on an estate with a average of 30 to 40 hectares. These will be agricultural farms based on family businesses. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It will not be based on an economy that employs thousands of people, but on many small farms. [[The president's ringing again.]] as many people as possible, helping to create jobs in rural areas. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: " What opportunities do you see in the area of family policy, what are the plans in the area of family support? " with the title " I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the Secretary of State, Katalin Veresné Novák, who has been appointed to reply. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi:]] Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-30-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Previously, the already declining birth rate began to fall as a result of anti-family measures taken by the Socialist Government. This trend has been stopped over the past four years, and there are even very good signs that we might be able to change this trend. Fidesz considers strengthening family policy and the family support system to be one of the most important issues and tasks, and we want childbearing not to be equal to taking on poverty. In addition, the safety of the home and of the loving family play an important role. Our basic goal is to eliminate discrimination in relation to parents with small children, especially mothers, create jobs and strengthen existing ones. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: In England, there he is!]] creating an economic and social environment for young parents to support childbearing. In recent years, we have taken a number of measures to strengthen families, some of which I would like to mention now: we have introduced and stuck to the family tax system, which supports those who have children in addition to work with the third lowest tax rate in Europe and a family tax reduction; we have further reduced the tax on small-income parents this year. Here, I would point out that employment is at a 22-year peak, because we support the family-friendly environment and the creation of jobs; we have introduced the ged extra to help young children in every life situation. Fidesz policy remains unchanged in 2014: family is the first and we want to provide more families with jobs and livelihoods. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] On this basis, I ask you, Madam Secretary, what further opportunities you see in the area of family policy [[The president's ringing again.]] and what are your plans for further strengthening family support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák.
u2014-06-30-119	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I agree with you, in the previous government cycle, we have indeed increased the amount of support for families with children to a greater extent than ever before. In comparison, compared to the budget allocation foreseen by the Socialists in 2010, the parents who raised the child received a total of HUF 700 billion in four years; this represents an average of HUF 610 thousand in total. It is a pleasure that the population indicators of the past three years, but especially this year, seem to confirm the success of family-friendly government policy: in the first four months, the number of marriages increased by 8 percent, almost 3 percent more children were born, and there were 10 percent less abortions than in the same period of the previous year. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: They are abroad!]] Only this alone means the birth of 1,300 babies. However, in view of the results, we cannot sit back, and we must continue on the road after 2014. The previous measures need to be continued in order to reduce the so-called demographic gap, i.e. to increase the birth rate of planned children. The establishment of the independent Parliamentary Secretariat for Family and Youth also indicates that family policy will be further strengthened, and will receive more attention than ever before. The first important steps of the population policy action plan adopted in the previous government cycle have been introduced: family tax incentives have been extended to contributions since 1 January this year; mothers have also been able to work freely since 1 January this year from the age of one year of their children; mothers do not lose the entitlement to former children in the case of siblings born this year; the flexibility introduced by the parents of twin children and your diplomat also came to life this year. We are going beyond the introduction of a significant package of measures, the effects of which we are beginning to perceive now, and let us not forget the government's measures in the area of reducing the cost or helping foreign exchange creditors, as they have also improved the situation of families. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In order to reduce the demographic gap, it is also important to encourage the second child's commitment and to further increase home-building opportunities. Cradle and family day care seats have been significantly expanded over the past four years [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] We have also adapted regulation to the needs of families, but this work has not yet been completed. (The President's ringing again.) [[16.30]] In addition to the financial incentives, thinking continues to be a priority, so we encourage...
u2014-06-30-120	Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-121	.......................................................................................................................................... and award family-friendly municipalities, companies, initiatives. [[John Lazarus: Time!]]
u2014-06-30-122	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
u2014-06-30-123	I hope we can continue to count on your cooperation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-124	Madam Secretary, you have one more minute to rejoinder. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-30-125	Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The voice of the former Secretary of State in the area of family policy and family support is encouraging and reassuring, as the list shows that many measures so far, which are far from enough, have almost taken over by the Secretary of State and intends to continue. Our password was to continue the work in the area of family support and family policy. Here, let me tell you, as a new Secretary of State, that there are quite a lot of attacks to be prepared, because left-wing and socialist fellow Members - as you can see now - are very cheerfully watching this immediate series of questions - will take all the means to attack and undermine these measures. [[Lajos Korózs: We will support everything that helps families!]] We wish you every success in your work, and we will give you all the help you can get. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-126	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder in one minute.
u2014-06-30-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mrs President, and thank you very much for supporting the Fidesz-KDNP fraction so far, which we are counting on in the future. However, I am sure that even opposition parties can be expected to support measures that are clearly aimed at strengthening Hungarian families, as this is in the interests of our nation. So I am quite sure that in this we will find a common compromise, in which even opposition parties will not only look for errors, but also, where appropriate, they will be able to side with positive, positive government measures. In this respect, I am still optimistic about it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-128	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: " HUF 260 million on a playground in Szeged with EU support. But is it regular? " with the title " Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2014-06-30-129	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, In 2012, it was possible to submit a tender for the development of tourist attractions. A company in Szeged, Titan Project's House Kft. successfully participated in this project during the investment in Vadaspark, so much so that it won more than HUF 185 million of its annual turnover as a tender grant, by raising 80 million shares in the implementation of the project, which seems odd because in the previous four years the revenues of this company did not exceed HUF 10 million, and its profits during this year were only HUF 485,000. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Of course, this company, I don't have to say, is connected to the local right, because this company is publishing the local Fidesz newspaper, the paper Soda, and this newspaper is funded by local government companies disguised as adverts. Kft. has a single member, who is also the managing director of another company, Traficum Bt., which is also linked to Fidesz in Szeged, since he owns the former private secretary of the President of Fidesz in Szeged, and the other owner is the editor-in-chief of the already mentioned Fidesz newspaper. But back to the application: what was realized from 260 million forints? A playground has been completed with 16 playgrounds, the list of which does not reach 20 million forints according to the calculated prices, as well as five information desks with 50 tablets, the total value of which is about the same. That is, 40 million forints out of 260 million forints were built into the Vadaspark in Szeged. The following questions arise: how can a company with a turnover of HUF 1.7 million win HUF 185 million in EU funding? What could EU funding have been spent on, since it is clear that these instruments do not cost that much? What return did the company show to the EU if in 2013 only HUF 509 thousand came from the operation of the playground? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-06-30-130	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-131	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, First of all, on behalf of the government, I would like to thank you for providing us with an intermezzo on domestic politics in Szeged here in Parliament and in the government. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I see that whoever is publishing the newspaper of Fidesz is proof of your mandate that it will be issued unnecessarily, or at least it has not achieved its purpose so far, since you were admitted to Parliament in 2014 during the parliamentary elections. (Development in the pro-government benches. ) So, however this fidesz newspaper is, in Szeged, there wasn't much of an appearance of what they did in the fidesz newspaper. As far as the tender is concerned, I feel the dissonance that stood before the company's tender moment, but I don't know if we can grasp it by legal means. You know exactly, because we're in a county that I'm not particularly disturbed by these party issues of fairness when it comes to asking for public money. So I'm ready to discuss this or investigate. What I can tell you is that out of the HUF 264 million project, HUF 182 million was spent in preparation for the project, for some HUF 60 million, for 58 million, and for 5 million for the preparatory work, which is average. So the tender criteria were met by the method of spending the tender money. The payment of the invoice has been checked on several occasions by the intermediate organisation and on-the-spot visits have been carried out. Technical inspectors signed, took over. They are responsible, of course accountable, and make no mistake. The invoice may be examined one by one, but the accounts have been audited several times. If you can help me find what I need to look for or how I can find that before the company wins this competition... - and it was probably not a strong enough undertaking, if I understand your comment correctly - then I am ready for all the tests, but the studies that have been carried out so far show that there is no evidence of lawlessness or abuse in the course of the application. But as I have offered to several of my fellow Members, just because a company is connected to Fidesz, we will investigate it thoroughly. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-132	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-06-30-133	Thank you, Minister. I was surprised by your answer, thank you very much. I wanted to ask you the same thing, because you also have a Deputy State Secretary, Mr Csepreghy, who is well known in the South Great Plain, and is used to carrying out all kinds of EU investigations on various projects. I wanted to ask you precisely to help me do this, to investigate this project. Especially because if I just say that in this area of the Vadaspark it was built for half of this amount, from 130 million forints, one of the main attractions of the Vadaspark, the giraffe house, which, by the way, includes a 400-metre runway and an extra playground, I consider this 260 million forints a bit backward. So, yeah, I'm gonna get you all the materials, and I'm gonna need you to help me with this. Thank you.
u2014-06-30-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-06-30-135	On the conditions of the application, I would like to say that I expressly supported it, even as a group leader, as a Member of Parliament or as State Secretary, that investments in the Southern Lowland region will be made to improve and influence life and quality of life. The Vadaspark of Szeged and all that it offers to children on weekends or young adults, parents who have children, I think it is especially important in Szeged's life, but also in the region's life. Many of my fellow citizens come in from the constituency and spend the weekend there with their children. I think that in a good playground, which is not cheap, we know that, because European Union standards must also be met... - otherwise I assume from the experience of recent years that there has been a playground and plaything business with different standard standards, which automatically drives up the cost of playgrounds [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] This should be considered, regardless of this case - but I think it was particularly important for the Szeged people. In the end, if I understand correctly, we are not arguing, there is a debate between us in the operation. I'm ready to conduct the investigation, I have the authority to do so, my colleagues said at least. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-136	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: " Why is there another III/II person in his government after János Martonyi? " with the title " The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-06-30-137	Tempting offer, Mr. President, but the Prime Minister has a personal responsibility to import III/II...
u2014-06-30-138	Thank you, Congressman, for your answer.
u2014-06-30-139	.......................................................................................................................................... So I'd give him a chance to explain himself personally.
u2014-06-30-140	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the identity of the responder. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. [[16.40]] Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: " Why is the prosecution protecting the politician of the MSZP? " with the title " Mr. Prosecutor General has appointed Mr. Ervin Belovics Deputy Attorney General in response to an urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Attorney General himself for an answer.
u2014-06-30-141	I'll take it because it's an urgent matter.
u2014-06-30-142	Thank you, Congressman. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-30-143	Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, The politicians of the MSZP were not often seen in court, so we were particularly pleased when the former mayor of Újbuda, Gyula Molnár, was prosecuted. We were particularly pleased when our sense of justice was tried to restore a little, because second degree the MSZP's prominent was sentenced to imprisonment. However, there was a surprising turn of events, and there was an opportunity for a third-degree, extraordinary remedy, and, thirdly, the Curia's not just any judicial council exonerated Gyula Molnár in its entirety. This is not surprising because he was the former constitutional candidate of the MSZP, who could in a sense exonerate his party partner, Gyula Molnár. So the candidate of the MSZP could judge and in this sense bring no surprise acquittal in the case of Gyula Molnár, the prominence of MSZP, the criminal of politicians. I think that the Law on Criminal Procedure is 21. § (1) (e) should have indicated to Dr. Róza Mészár that he was biased in the case. According to that point, he cannot act as a judge, who is not expected to have an impartial view of the case. It should have indicated its bias in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure, but it did not do so. But the D.A.'s office didn't do it either, even though the D.A.'s office could do the 23rd. In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. I asked Mr. Attorney General why he didn't do it. Today I received his reply, which did not reveal whether or not they knew, in this sense, he is defending the honour of the mundér, or they were already consciously granting such an opportunity that the candidate of the MSZP could judge the case of the politician Gyula Molnár MSZP. In any event, he insisted that this judgment was lawful and that there was no problem, according to the Attorney General, with the former candidate of the MSZP making acquittal in the case of the politician of the MSZP. I would like to explain this further. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-144	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovich. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, What Congressman said is factual. In this case, the Central Detective Attorney General has brought charges against the defendants. In the first instance, a judgment was delivered, and in the second instance the Metropolitan Court found the defendants guilty, but subsequently the Curia acquitted the defendants. It also complies with criminal law standards that the prosecutor is entitled to the right to submit a motion for exclusion. However, the fact that the President of the determining Chamber was designated by the MSZP as a Constitutional Judge by the prosecutor acting in the case alone was not considered to be biased and therefore did not make such a statement. By the way, according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, if the judge is prejudiced, he is obliged to report it himself. That didn't happen. That is why the letter from the Attorney General to the Member states states that, in the procedural sense, the prosecutor acting in the case did not see the possibility of submitting a motion for exclusion. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-146	Thank you very much, Deputy Attorney General. In return, I will give the floor to the speaker in a one-minute time frame.
u2014-06-30-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the answer, in which you admitted that my statements were essentially factual. Perhaps most often I made the statement that Gyula Molnár is the politician of the MSZP. I think a large part of society agrees with that. Unfortunately, the lack of accountability is a government responsibility. In particular, I think that Peter Polt has a personal responsibility to assist in this process. In fact, I think, if the law on criminal proceedings no longer defines what it means that an impartial judgment of the case cannot be expected from a judge, then, on the basis of the rules of the common language, we can really think that a person who had previously been a candidate for a Constitutional Court of the MSZP, so that the MSZP wanted to make one person close to them almost public dignity - according to press reports, Dr. Róza Mészár - more than one concentration - and if such a person would like to be treated as an almost public-law candidate by the MSZP, then this is unacceptable, so I ask you to initiate a new procedure. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-148	Thank you. You have the right to a rejoinder, Deputy Attorney General. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-149	Honourable Congressman, So, my statement was that what Congressman said was factual, it was about the case and the course of the case. I think, Mr. Attorney General, in this case, there was nothing, so to say, to play a role, that prosecutors with jurisdiction and jurisdiction have acted, prosecuted or prosecuted. Therefore, I must reject your statement concerning the person of the Attorney General. The Criminal Procedure Act also precludes the possibility of initiating a new procedure categorically, given that the Curia acted on the case at third instance. In this case, there is virtually no possibility for the prosecution to initiate a new procedure. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-150	I would like to thank the Deputy Attorney General for his reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: " What will the government do to ensure that the RTL Club does not escape tax liability? " The title is given below. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person of the responding [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] Or ask the Minister himself for an answer. Yes, Congressman, you accept the identity of the responder. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-30-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the government has increasingly shifted the focus of the tax system to turnover and consumption taxes rather than income tax on labour. This transformation of the tax system included the introduction of a new tax on the publication of advertisements, which was decided by Parliament on 11 June 2014, in the 2014 XXII. the adoption of a law. According to the law, the tax should be paid not by the advertiser, but by the publisher, so TVs, newspapers, radios, Internet portals. The tax also applies to media service providers not established in Hungary, which broadcast at least half their daily programme time in Hungarian. Traditional advertising media, such as billboards, real estate, billboards, vehicles, are also subject to the tax. For related undertakings, the taxable amount is the sum of the turnover of the undertakings. 50 per cent of the retained loss taken into account in the advertising tax shall be reported up to the maximum amount of the advertising tax base. The RTL Club, as part of an international group of companies, reached HUF 25.8 billion in revenue in 2012, with a pre-tax profit of HUF 6 billion of 650 million. In 2013, its revenue amounted to HUF 23,7 billion and its pre-tax profit was HUF 2 billion for HUF 300 million. Is it acceptable that, with such a result, a company should not pay corporate income tax? Is it possible for an international group of companies, using Hungarian tax laws and accounting legislation, to be able to avoid paying taxes in Hungary with various accounting tricks? Dear Secretary of State, What does the government intend to do to ensure that the RTL Club does not escape tax liability? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-06-30-152	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-06-30-153	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The introduction of advertising tax over the last few weeks with certain media service providers has caused quite a debate, there has been quite a protest. However, it is true that the special taxation of this extra service in the government's tax policy fits in in its entirety. After all, in 2010, we started this line with the bank tax, the sectoral tax. [[16.50]] I don't think it's news. It is said few times, but advertising tax exists in several countries in Europe, such as Sweden, Austria, Belgium, Italy, France, the Netherlands and Spain, Sweden 3-8 percent, Austria 5 percent, but for example France pays three types of advertising tax. It is a tax adopted in Europe. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] In Hungary, this unfortunate dispute has developed, the essence of which is that one media service provider, whom you have repeatedly mentioned, tries to avoid paying taxes in various ways, and not only from paying advertising taxes, but also from paying corporate tax, because in its official accounts, while its business provides an extra profit compared to its turnover, it is able to avoid a significant corporate tax payment with other, unclear transactions, and now, with the same transaction, it can also achieve, under the advertising tax law currently adopted, that it does not have to pay any advertising tax for the year 2014. But there is the idea of how we can change that, which I would like to say in the next minute. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-154	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-06-30-155	Thank you. I believe that the only acceptable answer to both questions for society is what the honourable Secretary of State said that everyone should be involved in bearing public burdens. If families and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises pay taxes in Hungary, then it is obvious that they also have to pay taxes to multinational large enterprises, which make huge profits and generate billions of profits abroad from Hungary. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-156	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-157	Thank you very much. As already known to Parliament, MEP L. Simon László has submitted another bill T/467. Today, which is about to be discussed by Parliament, which will correct the rules of the approved advertising tax, which will not allow the tax base to be offset in 2014 with losses that are set aside in order to circumvent the payment of the advertising tax. The other important step is the order of the Minister responsible for tax policy himself, who ordered the tax control of that company under the law, on the basis of a legal mandate, which has been contained in the law for 20 years. Rarely, but the Minister now exercises that right. I think that on such a far-reaching issue, where they want to hide so much tax, or rather not pay it, the minister is entitled to order control, and we are very confident that the NAV will investigate whether this tax cover-up is legitimate and legitimate. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-158	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Do the people of Budapest want a museum villager instead of a Liget? " The title is given below. The Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister personally for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-30-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to raise the pressure to install the City Park here in the Hungarian Parliament, because in this regard I am constantly experiencing - just before the agenda of the Secretary of State of Rétvári - that Fidesz and KDNP practically explain the inexplicable. In this context, there is a factual fact that Fidesz and KDNP do not understand what Budapest, Fidesz and KDNP do not understand what people in Budapest need. This project has been on the wrong track since the beginning. I would remind you that the 20 percent Ferenc Papcsák himself was the man who most of the people present here or living in Budapest would not trust him with a 150 billion-dollar project, but perhaps not even his own bicycle. This whole project will fall into the hands of the Papcsak-led trustee. In recent years, this man has been most prominent in the disappearance of public funds, so we can say that the project is in the worst hands. Plus, this law is a blank check, whatever it is, because you've taken the City Park out of all the regulations that exist. If Ferenc Papcsák decided to cement the City Park, there would be nothing we could do, we would be completely useless. Where this place is visited every year by four million people, four million people go there to get refreshment, to relax, not to feel in a concrete jungle, but to find a way to recreate in some fresh air. There was a poll this spring where people said that it was nature and green space that they needed, the problem for them is carelessness. Dear Secretary of State, I think that this should have been changed, and I think that we should have heard what the people of Budapest were saying, and that the park should have been looked after, rather than starting a declaration as a museum villager, as this project has already gone on in today's assembly. I would like to know your position. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Will they continue this struggle to wipe this City Park from the surface of the earth? [[The president's ringing again.]] Or will they hear what the people of Budapest want and dance back from this project?
u2014-06-30-160	Thank you. Congresswoman, I'd like to ask you to keep your time frame. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-06-30-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, Your commitment to environmental protection, environmental issues is well-known, and this is very commendable. I am saying, however, that it is a bit hasty, and perhaps I can put it as an extreme position on this issue. What's this about? He asked: what does Budapest need? And quite rightly: for culture and the environment, for the environment, for the environment that can develop here in this park. What's happening to this park? What we are talking about is that the obsolete museum structure that is all over the city is now focusing and creating a cultural attraction that has many European examples in the world. If you look at the example of Berlin, you can bring it here perfectly. On the other hand, he said that the aim was to improve the environment. That's exactly what's happening: they're modernising an outdated, antiquated park, XXI. They're making me a hundred years old. Yeah, just, uh, feel free to add, there's only four million people going into this park. A lot more people should go out every year. This investment allows much more people to go out. You may have heard in the speeches before the agenda that the applications are about to start, the presentations are about to start, and that there are a lot of interested people, that Europe is all over the place, and that it is preparing to submit these attractions. I'm asking you to wait for these plans to be submitted, to see exactly what's going on here in City Park, and then take a stand. After that, you can defend him very warily, but don't act as mayor of Mosonmagyaróvár I've lived a lot of times when the residents took a stand to arrange a park. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And then when he was done, they congratulated me on how beautiful he was. That's what I wish you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-162	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-163	Well, the Fidesz attractions are starting to fill the attic, Mr. Secretary of State. We are talking about the situation in Budapest. People in this town live less time because of air pollution, the concentration of particulate matter. For the last 25 years, you and your ancestors have charged three urban groves of green space in this town. You are not thinking about how to make this city closer to Europe - I say, otherwise, the European recommendation is exactly double the green surface compared to what is now in Budapest - but you are saying that foreigners from Europe will come here and create attractions. Thank you, I don't want any of the attractions, but I want a liveable Budapest, and as a citizen of Budapest, I want to get all the good things that people in a European city have the right to access. Walk around Paris or London - if you'd like to paddle to international waters - and see how many green surfaces there are! Walk out here to Kossuth Square and see what they've done: they've destroyed it, they've cemented it, the trees are sick of it, because they can't even install wood normally, it's obvious that the entire Kossuth Square is falling apart. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, Are you serious about what you're saying to me? 'Cause I didn't hear much of that. [[17.00]]
u2014-06-30-164	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-06-30-165	Dear Congresswoman, I'm quite serious, because the numbers confirm us. Exactly your request and the request of the people of Budapest will be met, the green surface will increase in that area, because our predecessors, who previously governed this country, have given way there, a busy road, it will now be diverted from there, we will eliminate the parking lot that is paved, we will open new green surfaces, exactly at your request. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I never asked for it.]] I very much hope that with this vehemency, with which you represent this case, you will see at the end how modern, how good, how much XXI. Designed to meet the needs of the century, the built-in is increasing from 5.6 percent to 7 percent, while the number of green surfaces is increasing significantly compared to the current percentage. I ask you very much that your emotions and feelings are dominated by reason and reason. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: But don't do that.]] And then you'll end up seeing it exactly. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-06-30-166	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: " Can the Ministry of Agriculture prevent János Lázár's rampage, which destroys domestic dairy producers? " with the title " The Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-30-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, the news received a lot of publicity that Hungarian dairy producers would not hesitate to protest if the wallet did not properly resolve their worsening situation. Domestic milk producers have huge problems. Their problem is that the share of imported milk products in Hungarian shops has increased so much that if this continues to be the case, the buying-in prices will continue to decrease by up to HUF 8-10. The problems of Hungarian producers who are losing money will cause problems for hundreds of families. However, milk producers seem to have to deal not only with foreign milk at dumped prices, but also with the government's rampage. The government is now threatening to withdraw subsidies in the sector that owns 80% of the domestic dairy cattle population and in the sector that provides 50% of legal employment. If these plans become a reality, they could mean the end of Hungarian livestock production and the loss of 40-50 thousand jobs. John Lazarus does not seem to know this; we hope that the Ministry of Agriculture does. It is also evident that the milk quota will cease to exist from 1 January 2015. For this reason, the Dutch, Slovak and German producers can't wait for the Hungarian dairy production to completely degrade and flood the Hungarian market with their cheap products. For this reason, the government should decide that the Hungarian farmers, or perhaps the Slovak, Dutch and German producers, now seem to represent the latter. That is why I ask, after all this, the question of what the end of the wrong and wrong measures will be, what will become of the tens of thousands of rural unemployed. Does the Ministry of Agriculture even have the possibility to keep this to itself against the Prime Minister's Office? Thank you.
u2014-06-30-168	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, what you have done in this country between 2002 and 2010 as a agricultural policy is considered the most amok run. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Lajos Korózs: Of course, Gyurcsány is to blame!]] In essence, in all areas, only demise, market loss and rural demise were real. As far as the future is concerned, the new rules on the common agricultural policy that will be introduced next year include a compulsory reduction of at least 5% for area payments over EUR 150 000. In the case of Hungary, this obligation would only apply to larger companies using a much larger area of more than 1 000 hectares. This rule also provides for the possibility for Member States to apply a withdrawal of more than 5 per cent where appropriate and to introduce a progressive system with more than one withdrawal band. It is also possible to use the wages and contributions paid by companies as a corrective factor, which would exempt undertakings that play a significant role in employment, typically in gardening and livestock farming, from this obligation. The question of the possibility of national transposition of a set of rules adopted by the Member States and by the EP as an integral part of the EU agricultural policy is the vision of the Member State. Before being caught up in such hysterical manifestations, it would have been useful to inform you that the current aid scheme contains a similar element, is called modulation, and should apply to all direct aid and complementary national aid, no one hurts and no one objects to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-06-30-170	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-06-30-171	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, Secretary of State, what we see is that while you are releasing the VAT on gambling for the benefit of your own friends, let us say that the VAT cuts on basic food that helps domestic producers and reduces the burden on the Hungarian population are not even heard that this should be resolved. Milk producers could not only be helped by a good support policy, but also, let us say, by curbing abuses, reducing their increasing burden and reducing the black economy. Mr Secretary, our view is clear from this point of view, your policy of support is not good, because it is not building, it is not encouraging, it is destroying. On the other hand, our goal is to employ an adequate number of people on a certain land. We can't accept that. Thank you.
u2014-06-30-172	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-173	Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the government is taking the utmost care in this matter, examining a number of possible options and modeling their economic and social impacts in detail, so that the final decision will be based on facts and not on emotions. It is important to stress that small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises and family farms remain the focus of the government's agricultural policy. Our key and well-known priority is also the promotion of economies producing and employing high added value. It is therefore unfounded to worry about the future of milk production, and I also reassure the stakeholders that the sector will receive significant support from 2015 to encourage production. It is also worth noting that the possible reduction of aid for large industrially producing enterprises, mainly arable crops, will increase the country's rural development register, which can be used in a way and for purposes appropriate to our national priorities, including, where appropriate, investment in milk production and the establishment of new processing capacities. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-06-30-174	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:07. We're moving on to questioning. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: " Where is the best interest and protection of children? ' The title is given below. It's for the congressman.
u2014-06-30-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On an online news portal, whose contact details I marked, I read an article about how some people beg with their children on their laps. The article says that drugs and alcohol are used to make the child sleep peacefully on the beggar's lap all day long. According to the columnist, children lost their lives in several cases. As a known but small - child practicing father, I myself have experienced that a small child does not sleep all day and even stays in one place rarely and for a short time. However, in the case of children in beggars, it is true that they can calmly sleep or sit through long hours, which does not seem natural. If the article is true, it is not just an offence, but a serious crime, endangerment of a minor, assault causing permanent harm to health, or a deliberate murder committed on a person under 14 years of age. For these crimes, the authority is obliged to bring proceedings. [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] There is no legal obstacle for patrol officers to undergo a medical examination of a small child if there is a suspicion of medical intervention and of a criminal offence. In this case, this can be seen most often by simple visual inspection, but if not, the authority has the right to use the assistance of a medical consultant on the spot. Dear Secretary of State, A newspaper article, I know, it's not evidence yet. But if you're faced with such information, it's your duty to look into it. And when a congressman turns to the government, it's appropriate for the government to deal with the issue on its own merits. It's not a political matter, it's a matter for all of us, it's a matter for all the good people. It is unacceptable and unacceptable for young children to fall victim to the beggar mafia in Hungary. So I ask Mr Secretary of State whether he knew about similar phenomena, and if so, what they did to him if he did not know whether he was planning to take action on this subject, whether the patrols are planning to get to know this information [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , specific checks are carried out on persons begging with children and children are subject to a medical examination. I look forward to your reply with all due respect. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. [[17.10]]
u2014-06-30-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Fundamental Law of Hungary lays down the right of the child to protection and care. And the law on children's rights and guardianship says, I quote: " The authorities of the State must take into account the best interests of the child in all their decisions concerning the child. " The authorities do so in their day - to - day work. According to the Code of Violation, a person begging in the company of a child has committed an offence. In these cases, in addition to the police, public area inspectors are now entitled to take action against offenders and to take action immediately. However, if the acting policeman finds that the child with the beggar is under some kind of influence, as may have been the case with you, he shall immediately initiate criminal proceedings and take the necessary measures to protect the child. In order to reduce such and similar violations and to facilitate more effective action, there are already thousands of pieces in Budapest [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We've got a public-area surveillance camera on line. If citizens find that the beggar is begging with a child, please notify the police immediately so that the procedure can be launched as soon as possible and that the child can be protected as soon as possible. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-178	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: " How long are employees of the public sector being bullied? " with the title "
u2014-06-30-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Many people still have a picture of those working in the public sector that they have a stable, retirement job, a sure livelihood, although unfortunately that is not true today. The public sector staff's salary base, as such, has remained unchanged for six years, thanks to the Bajna and Orbán governments, while inflation has increased by 25 percent since then. All benefits were taken away from these people, and the previously existing career model virtually ceased, and quite badly, because the pay table collapsed, creating very serious wage tensions in the sector. Practically the same salary as a public employee who worked there for 18 years, increased workload, a lot of unpaid overwork, and if someone falls out or retires, they do not replace a new person, but simply eliminate their status. Today, some 630,000 people in the public sector are afraid of their existence and have very serious financial problems. At the same time, we see that the interests of the community are also being damaged, because it is in the interests of all of us to provide high quality public services. However, it seems that the government does not think so and has been telling public sector workers for a long time, especially when the elections come. It was Minister who made a promise before the elections that, after the new government has been established, they would start negotiating with interest representatives on the one hand about wage increases and on the other, about the career model itself. I don't know about these negotiations, they're on the move. You can't see anything but silence. I'd like to ask you for information on what's going on here. I would like to specifically ask Minister not to point out to teachers and health workers. We all know that there has been a rather one-sided wage increase there, and that the real wage reduction that has been suffered since 2008 has not been compensated, and it is not appropriate to refer to this because there are hundreds of thousands of public service workers, other than them, whose wages have not changed. I am therefore asking you, Minister, when you can expect a comprehensive wage increase for public sector workers. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-06-30-180	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-06-30-181	Honourable House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Perhaps I would like to begin by saying that 24 years were not enough for Hungarian governments of different colours and party positions to clarify one basic and very simple question in Hungary: the simple question of what kind of public service the Hungarian State provides, how it can be achieved, and how many people are needed to provide that public service. This very simple set of questions has not been clarified in 24 years, and this is likely to have its own social and economic reasons. All governments began to answer this question, none of them had the strength and the social support to bring the transformations, which obviously served the purpose of improving public services, to complete and complete them. In my view - I represent this position within the government - it must first be clarified what public services Hungary is undertaking with taxpayers' money under the current economic conditions. When this is clarified, we can say that the 630 thousand or the Chamber of Commerce says that one million people live on taxpayers' money either directly as public servants or through different assignments and other employment relationships, many or few. The Chamber of Commerce says that the public sector is incredibly large, that it needs to be dismantled, dismissed, recreated. And public service workers say that they are doing an amazing amount of work, they are no longer physically winning, they are no longer gaining spiritual achievement, and they are also being paid unrealisticly low. First, I think we need to clarify in which Hungarian settlement we want to provide a public service in what organisational form. We started with the restructuring of the education system, the restructuring of the health system, and then followed the unsatisfactory correction of the teachers' careers and health care workers. This year we are going to talk about armed bodies in relation to the 2015 budget, but once again, we cannot move on without clarifying the basic question, and this, again, affects at least one million people and not 630,000 people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-182	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: " Why must the transaction fee be paid to the Hungarian people instead of the banks? Why is the government not doing anything to prevent the transfer of bank charges? " The title is given below. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2014-06-30-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2012, a law was passed on the introduction of the transaction fee in Hungary, also known as the public's knowledge, a cheque tax, which is used by the government to tax bank transfers and cheque payments. The burden of this tax is, according to the letter of the law, the banking system itself. The law did not even enter into force when the government already doubled the tax rate initially paid, and the law which entered into force from 1 January 2013 followed by the fact that it tripled the original rate eight months later, while it was well known that banks would pass on this new tax to the general public. We drew the government's attention before the tax was introduced, that the banks had sent out their amended business rules to customers, in which they were warned that, in parallel with the introduction of the transaction fee, transaction costs would be increased at exactly the same rate as the transaction fee. In this way, the burden of this kind is not on the banking sector, but on the Hungarian population itself. We asked the government who declared itself national, why it did not wish to do something against the fact that the Hungarian small people did not pay this new levy, but, as the letter of the law did, the banking sector should actually be the burden. The government didn't do anything. The ridiculous fines that affected the banking sector do not cover 1 percent of the tax revenues from this, so it is obvious that they passed it on to the Hungarian people and became the real burden bearing the introduction of the transaction levy. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-06-30-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The situation is not so dramatic, because in 2013 the transaction fee brought HUF 200 billion in additional revenue to the budget, of which 59 billion was paid by the Treasury itself, and most of the difference was not the Hungarian population, but the transaction between Hungarian companies and legal entities. So, to say that this is entirely the responsibility of the Hungarian population, this is obviously not true. He rightly stated that the letter of the law does not allow unilateral, adverse contractual changes to the customer, and that it is not a legal option for banks to pass on this additional burden because it is indeed for the payment service provider to pay for it. The government could do two things, and the situation will be significantly better in 2014 because from 1 February it created the possibility to withdraw cash from the ATM free of charge up to 150 thousand forints, so this year the bank will certainly not be able to reload it, and this is basically also a consumer protection issue. The Hungarian National Bank launched 157 investigations, of which 35 were already closed, and warned these financial service providers with a fine not to do so in the future. [[17.20]] It is wrong for the betterman to make this government a friend of the banks, since more than HUF 400 billion of revenue is received from the bank tax and from this transaction fee, which was not at all before. This means the lack of a 400 billion-dollar austerity package, and the banks have already contributed nearly 300 billion forints to help foreign exchange lenders. I think it's all thanks to this government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who required banks to take on this burden.
u2014-06-30-186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior: " When will the Pécs have a new firefighter? " The title is given below. Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor.
u2014-06-30-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Pécs is the largest settlement in Transdanubia, where Pécs firefighters guarantee the protection and safety of the city's population above 155 thousand people and more than 50 settlements in the area. For this reason, the Pécs city administration has considered it a priority task and is still concerned about ensuring that the fire department is of sufficient quality and sufficient equipment. A significant part of the fire control tasks is now a state task, and we still feel it is a Pécs duty to make improvements to our potential, thus ensuring the protection of the Pécs by firefighters with an adequate technical machine park and equipment. Dear Secretary of State, The barracks now operating in the 1980s was built as a huge 20-storey building according to the quality of the age. The location of the site in the city is still good, but the building has been life-threatening for nearly a decade. Earlier, we were promised that our current barracks would be renewed and, as is customary in Western Europe due to short periods of migration, a new precinct would be built in order to enable firefighters to carry out the service not only from one place but from several places and to increase the security of the western and southern parts of the city. For this, the city of Pécs provides free land and water and sewerage during the construction period. I ask the Secretary of State when this can happen, when is it possible for the Pécs to get a new fire station?
u2014-06-30-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2014-06-30-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, On 1 January 2012, professional municipal fire brigades were transferred to the State Reserve. That's how it happened in Pécs. Even before the handover, it was known that the firehouse in Pécs was in extremely poor condition. After the asset transfer, the OKF had the building examined, and the result of the static examination was that this building could no longer be renovated economically, so the decision was made to build a new barracks in Pécs. This means that the current barracks will be demolished, the lowest level remains for storage. The authorisation procedure has been initiated and construction work is expected to start if the procurement is successful in the third quarter of the year. The transfer of the barracks can take place in 2016. With the reconstruction of the disaster management system, it has been decided that disaster control stations will also be established. The aim of these disaster prevention ancestors is to arrive in Hungary within 25 minutes for the help of all citizens in distress, and to be 10 minutes for 70 percent of the population. There are currently 35 precincts in Hungary, of which two are in Baranya County - Véménden and Sellyén - and two are planned to open in 2015 in Baranya County. In addition to the barracks providing a professional fire station in Pécs, a precinct is designed to ensure the highest level of fire safety in and around the county seat. Based on all this, we can determine that Pécs will have a new fire station. First, we want to deliver the barracks and, depending on the resources, it will be possible in 2017 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Start the precinct. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-190	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Does Fidesz need national authorities? " The title is given below. Mr László Teleki has the floor.
u2014-06-30-191	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The 2011 CLXXIX on nationality rights. Law No. 2 According to § 2), the national authorities, including the Roma minority self-governments, are also meant to enforce and promote their rights to ethnic communities. Their task is to protect and represent the interests of nationalities, to deal with national, regional or national matters on a stand-alone basis. According to the law, the body of representatives of the local government is obliged to ensure the rights of nationality, including in relation to the provision of municipal tasks related to public education, information, basic social care and local public employment. While the mandatory tasks of the local government are gradually decreasing, it is enough to think about nationalisation of education, compared to this, budget support for basic tasks has been reduced for both municipal and national authorities, but the funding for applications has also been significantly reduced. It is not difficult to see that the more the local government and the local public affairs in the settlements are reduced, the less the law on the rights of nationalities says it is possible to protect the interests of minorities when dealing with local public affairs. In connection with the involvement of national authorities in the resolution of local public affairs, the Act on the Rights of Nationalities 10. Paragraph 5 of the Act states very well: In fact, the text allows national governments to participate in the mandatory tasks of the local government. For example, if there is no drinking water on the street of a village, the local public issue, if there is no drinking water on the Roma line, is also the issue of nationality, which is in fact not covered by the law for the national government. Therefore, I ask Mr Secretary of State: do national governments really need Fidesz? Thank you very much for your reply. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-06-30-192	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Perhaps this year's worst day has been chosen by the Member to say this question, or to say so, because a few hours ago, as the third item on the agenda today, we decided together - although you voted against it - on the unanimous proposal of minority advocates, which meant an amendment to the nationality law. This was the first proposal that spokespersons put forward here, obviously as representatives of nationalities. All 13 of you agreed here, in Parliament, we agreed, but you did not agree with this proposal, and it is quite a step forward, I think, for all nationalities, that there are advocates here, that they have a separate committee, and that they can speak about all the legislative proposals that they consider important to give their own opinions. Therefore, progress has been made in terms of the autonomy of nationalities, their internal organisation and the public representation of their own interests, which has not been the case for 25 years, even though the basic law, the Constitution, has provided for the previous cycles - the MSZP-SZDSZ had two thirds in the last 25 years - but it has not stepped forward to give the opportunity, whether in a provocative system or in a different way, to the nationalities here. However, we also expanded the possibilities of national authorities, as they were previously only minority cultural, educational and educational opportunities, local written and electronic press was maintained, traditional care, public education was the area where they performed their tasks. In the area of the new regulation, proposed precisely by the Roma municipality, the municipalities also have a say in social inclusion, social, youth, public employment, urban management and settlement planning tasks, although I would not particularly consider the direction that the Member said if even drinking water became a nationality issue. However, we would like to deny that there are fewer sources. Since 2010, support for minority self-governments and minority self-governments has been constantly increasing. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-194	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture: " How do you intend to fight against VAT frauders if the motivation of fraudsters is held to the highest level at European level? " with the title " [[17 .30]] On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary for National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-30-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to press reports, Minister Fazekas intends to fight against VAT abuse in an enlarged V4 cooperation, while Hungary still suffers from high, 27 percent VAT, even for basic foods. The question is whether it is acceptable for the government and all stakeholders to accept that tens of thousands of families do not receive sufficient quality and quantity of food because of this exceptional tax burden. It further exacerbates the situation that, in many cases, children do not have access to the nutrients that are essential for their development, inter alia, because of this burden. Numerous studies show the disadvantages that the lack of a balanced diet, which is essential for healthy development, will cause in the course of development, and even if you are not concerned about something else, I would also highlight the impact of this on the state register. Jobbik has been proposing to reduce VAT on basic foods here in Parliament since 2010, which would otherwise have an immediate and tangible impact on all stakeholders. Although significant amounts would fall out of the budget, no one denies this, but these would be significantly offset by the fact that the sector would become significantly white. Perhaps more important than that is the fact that food operators working fairly today have a significant competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis those active in the grey or black economy. Here, in the midst of the harvests, the latest news is that the wheat uses the reverse VAT to get grounded on top of the truck, and most of it, where the reverse VAT product is and below it. Or, looking at it from a different perspective, did the government already consider how much tax-paying forints could have been saved by the fact that the long-standing food industries that have been destroyed in recent years would not have been on the brink of bankruptcy if they had not been hit by this VAT burden, for example. So I ask the honourable Secretary of State when to finally accept Jobbik's proposal, when to radically reduce the VAT on basic foods. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-30-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-06-30-197	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I would like to say three things to you: on the one hand, it is not true that the VAT on all food is 27 percent, since milk and dairy products, starch, flour or milk are 18 percent keyed, but for example, the live and half pig falls below 5 percent. Nevertheless, it is true that the majority of food is subject to 27 percent VAT. The second thing I have to say is that you are not saying this at the right time, as food prices are falling in Europe and in Hungary. In Europe, Hungary is the fifth country with the highest price reduction, for example, in recent years the price of flour has decreased by 17.7 percent, sugar by 15.2, food oil by 14.2 percent, and eggs by 4.6 percent, for example, and if we look at the pension basket, the price index, it is very, very positive for them, because they are buying these food products. This proves that retail sales have also increased significantly, a significant part of which is the purchase of basic foods, which is why it increases the price of food. The third thing is that, so far, we have not shown any economic success when we look at VAT reductions and budget revenues, because they are not really effective, and we do not see reductions in VAT rates in consumer prices. This does not mean that the government does not seek to reduce VAT on food, it requires an economic environment, an economic growth. What I can tell you, however, is that there will not be a VAT reduction on Jobbik's idea and proposal, which all parties in Parliament want, of course, also the governing parties, in the event that this will also mean a reduction in food prices. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-198	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: "There are problems around student work. " Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2014-06-30-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, At your press conference, you said that this year, like last year, HUF 1.5 billion is available for the announced student work programme, in which students aged 16-25 can get a job at local governments or local government institutions. In last year's program, 16,000 young people gained work experience. However, according to the student-work organizers, half or a third of the students are applying for seasonal work this year, and from 15 June - as you can see - our office is being stormed. The state's support for the summer work of students is a very good goal to support. But the fact that local authorities can benefit from the greasy state aid is not the fact that local small businesses, seasonal catering units, are not really. According to the Secretary of State, based on last year's experience, a larger amount of funding is being provided in the less-favoured counties and a larger number is being planned. These are areas where students also have problems if the employer cannot provide them with accommodation. Then they can't afford commuting, and after a few days, they stop working. The news is coming that Hungary's main tourist attraction, Lake Balaton, cannot find the right workforce in catering and tourism. Today, the situation has developed to the point of recruiting foreign migrant workers so that businesses can operate in the summer at all. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: shouldn't we examine why the state only supports working in the municipalities with HUF 1.5 billion? Will student labor support be another paying place for the Fidesz municipalities? Why is it not possible to support hospitality, tourism, small businesses or the summer student work of applicants for deficiency professions? Why does the state not support accommodation and travel costs related to summer student work, as they do with regard to job seekers? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-06-30-200	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2014-06-30-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You gave your question the title, "There are problems with student work, too. " Well, I wish that the government would have such problems, because you also started by agreeing that students should be helped, especially during the summer. We started this program last year, did 16,000 to 16,000! - student participated in this program in the order of HUF 1.5 billion, and this year at least one and a half billion HUF is expected. You are here to indicate that the school associations complain that they cannot find a sufficient number of students, that they report exactly the opposite to me, and the facts prove that more than 130 thousand - more than 130 thousand! - a student has applied for employment this year as part of student work. We are talking about 450 thousand people, honourable Member, on a scale. Out of the 450,000, if the student associations take 130, we'll contribute 16,000, there's plenty more to be done in this system, apparently. Obviously, the budget limits the number of people we can help in this form of employment. Obviously, more instruments must be played when we talk about employment policy, this is a narrow segment, an important but narrow segment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not student work, but seasonal work that is suitable for dealing with the problems in Balaton, where, compared to the 80,000 people in 2010, 200,000 people - once again: 200,000 - are involved in seasonal work, so all the programmes that the Hungarian government has launched in the past have been absolutely successful. It is no coincidence that KSH has more data in employment from month to month. Of course, much remains to be done, but I think that these results should be valued.
u2014-06-30-202	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: " What is the fate of Vajdahunyadvar? " with the title " It's up to Congresswoman.
u2014-06-30-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, For years, government communication has been about the establishment of a new museum district during the rehabilitation programme of Városliget in order to create a special tourist attraction, which would host museums scattered throughout the capital and allow for further creation. The National Assembly then adopted at the end of 2013 the law establishing the creation of a settlement-building instrument corresponding to the above concept. It is a fact that this new legislation puts the domestic traditions of urban development, urban planning and building law in parentheses, but all this has been done to ensure that the new museum district's plan can be fully implemented as soon as possible, according to government information. [[17.40]] The press report that the Agricultural Museum had to move from the building of Vajdahunyadvár after'110 years was particularly surprising, because the building was viewed by a group of interests, possibly for entertainment and hospitality. If this were to be the case, the assumptions that the concept of the museum district is only a sound communication catch, and in fact the City Park programme serves only real estate development and private investor interests. And I would add that today the general assembly voted on this new settlement resolution instrument, and one of the questions raised in the previous question was that we did not provide enough data. Then allow me to say that the construction zones allow the construction of thousands of square meters of service and catering facilities, as well as ten-storey buildings, according to the installation height, can be built here in the City Park, and the 2.1 level area indicator represents an extremely intensive installation, as I understand it. So, please, the Honourable Secretary of State, give me a clear answer as to what the fate of Vajdahunyadvar will be. It is possible to continue the practice of communism [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Will the current government also condemn this museum to removal? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-204	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-06-30-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You and the LMP representatives, who are very close to you, often talk about private interests and private investments in the City Park today, although it is quite clear that there is a public park here, which will become an even greener public park. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] There will be functions that are community functions, be it museums, be it? [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] a lot of other things. So here, a park of full public function will be renewed. And you are against the fact that this part of Budapest, which has more beautiful parts, creates the appearance and feeling of total neglect, renews, another part of it, the former Parade Square, now the square of the Fifty-Sixers, there is a large, concreted parking lot, a nice museum quarter that really is. [[Mrs Loránt Hegedűs: Talk about Vajdahunyadvar. That was the question!]] It is already European since more than half a thousand applications have been submitted for the international architectural design contest. So it is quite an opportunity to increase the green surface at the same time, to reduce the load on the City Park, because when this project is completed, it will drive 15,000 cars less across the City Park than it is now. So the environment will be much better, and there will be the new national gallery, the Museum of Fine Arts and the Hungarian National Gallery, the Ludwig Museum, the contemporary art museum, the Museum of Ethnography from here, the Kossuth tér, and the Hungarian Museum of Photography, as well as the Hungarian Museum of Architecture and the House of Music, and a lot of other things, not only the park, but the circus building around it, the zoo, even the far-reaching restoration centre on Szabolcs Street or even the Fortress in Komárom will be of significantly better quality within the framework of this project. Our plans did not include any other functions mentioned by you in Vajdahunyadva in Városliget, but we would also like to improve this and continue to operate in a much better quality according to the previous community function. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-206	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. It's 5:44. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by discussing proposals. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer lending contracts for financial institutions follows. The submission is T/465. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to give the floor first in the debate to Minister László Trócsányi, the author of the bill, who wishes to speak about the pulpit. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-06-30-207	Dear Parliament, Mr President, With the bill before this House, the government aims to close a problem of more than a decade, originally economic and legal, but because of its size, which has become social in two steps until the end of the year. It's been a long and difficult journey. On the other hand, the decision of the Constitutional Court, the two decisions of the Curia and the judgment of the Court of Luxembourg of the European Union served as road signs for the Government. The origins of the trouble to be dealt with are well known. In the years following the turn of the millennium, foreign exchange loans for different purposes were widely used in Hungary. Such loan agreements were primarily concluded with private consumers. The apparent attractiveness of the scheme was due to the gap between the interest rates held high by the then monetary policy and the lower interest rates on loans quoted in foreign currencies. The specific feature of these banking products is that they share the risk extremely unevenly between the creditor and the debtor. In addition, the banks have constantly unilaterally increased interest, costs and fees, using the option provided by the law. The unilateral right of banks to amend contracts under the law was first limited by the legislator in the interests of consumers only after the change of government in 2012. As Minister of Justice and social responsibility, I initiated an expert working group to review the problems of foreign exchange lenders and to develop proposals for solutions as early as the week following my appointment. The heads and staff of the Ministry of National Economy, as well as the Hungarian National Bank, have participated in this task force. A wide-ranging consultation of the proposal was carried out. I personally met the president of the National Court Office. The staff of the OBH were also involved in the drafting of the legislative text. On behalf of the Ministry of National Economy, the Banking Association was also consulted. As regards the need for legislation, it should also be pointed out that a number of lawsuits have been opened in recent years in which debtors have requested the annulment of their loan agreements with banks. Currently, the number of ongoing lawsuits is up to 5,000, which, in addition to costing and time spent on debtors, also places a heavy burden on the courts. This is reflected in the fact that, in December 2013 and June 2014, the Curia also adopted two relevant legal unit decisions in order to establish a common case-law. The Curia also states in both its decisions that the social dimensions of the problem require legislation. The Curia 2/2014. The government was therefore in a position to submit a bill to the Parliament to solve the problems of foreign exchange taxpayers after its single law decision. The government responded quickly and hopefully effectively to the situation created by the Curia's resolution of the legal unit, as it drafted its bill within two weeks of the adoption of the resolution of the legal unit. As a result, a proposal was made to serve Community interests, promote social aspects and protect debtors. This is in line with Section M of the Fundamental Law, according to which Hungary ensures the conditions of fair economic competition and takes action against abuse of dominant positions and protects consumers' rights. On this basis, the reasons and constitutional conditions for the legislation to solve the problems of foreign exchange lenders exist. The Curia has taken a guiding decision on the unfairness of certain provisions of loan agreements with consumers. This concerns precisely consumer credit contracts, loan agreements and then financial leasing contracts. The Curia's decision gave an interpretation of the concept of unfairness in relation to these contracts. However, the interpretation of the Curia is binding only on the courts. In order to ensure that these principles are implemented directly, the bill will bring the decisions of the Curia to a legislative level. The proposal makes this interpretation universal, mandatory for all. The main objective of the bill is to codify the Curia's interpretation of the law and to avoid time-consuming and costly litigation for large consumer masses. The proposal also aims to provide financial institutions with the possibility of voluntary compliance. In line with this, it is primarily the responsibility of financial institutions to remove unfair clauses from the general contractual terms and other contractual blanks they apply. [[17.50]] It only maintains the application of State constraints when financial institutions do not comply voluntarily with their obligations. The aim of the proposal is to establish a procedural system allowing the debtors concerned to eliminate the unfair clauses applied to the contracts concluded with them and to carry out the related accounts as quickly as possible. The proposal also took into account the provisions of EU law and the decisions of the European Court of Justice on unfair contractual terms. In this context, the proposal amends the content of existing contracts only in such a way and to the extent that, in the absence of unfair clauses, the contracts concerned are not rendered unfulfilled, as this would result in the nullity of the entire contract, which would be contrary to the interests of the debtors. The proposal therefore sets out kogens' provisions on partial nullity that become part of the contract rather than unfair clauses. The proposal also took into account the requirements set out in the Constitutional Court's decision of 8/2014. The contracts concerned are long-term relationships lasting for several years in respect of which an amendment to the legislation may be appropriate. These treaties also affect a wide range of society. It is also clear that the subsequent change in the circumstances of these contracts at the time of the conclusion of the contract was in the material and legitimate interest of the masses of debtors. These changes of circumstances were not foreseeable and significantly exceeded the risk of normal changes. Finally, the constitutionality of the intervention is confirmed by the fact that its content is identical to that of the Curia's interpretation of the law in force. With regard to the detailed rules, I would first point out that the proposal establishes the unfairness of the exchange rate gap used in foreign exchange loan agreements with consumers. The non-compliance with the application of the different selling and buying rates shall be replaced by the official exchange rate of the Hungarian National Bank. In this context, the proposal provides for a conversion obligation. This conversion shall be carried out by the financial institutions within 90 days of its entry into force. With regard to the unfairness of the provisions on unilateral contractual amendments, the proposal provides for a rebuttable presumption, which applies to both foreign exchange and forint-based consumer loans. The banks therefore have the opportunity to prove the fairness of the contractual clauses they apply in a court proceedings to that effect. However, in line with the proposal's aim of providing quick and effective protection for debtors, these proceedings will take place in an exceptional procedural order subject to a close deadline. The proposal also provides for ongoing procedures. It states, on the one hand, the suspension of pending litigation and, on the other, the suspension of ongoing enforcement procedures. The procedure shall also be suspended if the sale of the pawnshop takes place outside judicial execution. The aim is not to create unfair and irreversible situations in which it is not possible to restore the original state. The proposal also provides for an obligation for financial institutions to examine and provide information on the contractual clauses concerned. The reporting obligation lies with the Hungarian National Bank, which also plays the role of supervision. Another important task of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is to verify the legality of the conversion required by the proposal in connection with the exchange rate increase. In order to facilitate this, it is the obligation of financial institutions to send the conversion methodology they apply to the National Bank within 60 days of its entry into force. The proposal contains a number of provisions to prevent the succession of creditors in the contractual position from being detrimental to debtors and states that the financial institutions involved in the subject change are obliged to cooperate with each other. In this context, the former eligible financial institution shall make available to the successor financial institutions the information necessary to fulfil the obligations set out in the proposal. The bill submitted contains, in particular, the substantive rules of law that clearly follow from the Curia's decision, as well as the necessary procedural rules. The settlement rules shall be definitively laid down in the autumn. The second law, which contains it, will have the task of finally resolving this problem of a wide range of society. Mr. President. Dear House, We look forward to the debate and expect the Members' comments and amendments. We are part of an unusual practice in which the government proposes to legislate to intervene by law and correct private contracts. In preparing the proposal, speed was the main aspect, but I am sure that this did not go at the expense of quality, and as a former constitutional judge, I am convinced that the bill is in all things in line with the constitutionality and legal certainty criteria. The bill is expected to be adopted as soon as possible, not only by the stakeholders but also by the wider public, so I can safely say that it will meet the social responsibility and duty of this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-208	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place within a 15-minute time frame by group of representatives. I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-30-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a very important bill ahead of us, so let me first thank the Government, the Minister of Justice who came to the new government, for being one of his first decisions and first steps, that he has put this to the public, and I think that he has also put forward a bill that is important for financial institutions to Parliament. Minister, thank you very much, on behalf of my fellow Members. As you have already seen in previous steps, the previous government led by Prime Minister Orbán, the government of international cooperation, has dealt with this issue in several steps, and we have tried to deal with the problems of foreign exchange credentials and, obviously, in line with the burden on the budget, to save them from the situation in which the former socialist governments, the Bajnai and the Gyurcsány governments brought them. After all, we should not forget that this whole issue should not be dealt with if the support system that was still in place in the period 2001-2002-2003 was still in place, so it was introduced during the first civil government, when the public was able to start a very serious real estate purchase programme, which boosted the domestic economy, boosted the domestic construction industry, and, in addition, gave society a decent, manageable rate of credit, nominating forints that excluded all kinds of exchange rate risks. Unfortunately, this preferential housing credit system has ceased, and instead there has been a government communication - I say again, both during the Gyurcsány and the Bajnai governments - which specifically encouraged people to take on foreign exchange loans, and has led people to believe that this is an otherwise risk-free loan option that is much cheaper than the level of forint loans available on the market. So these precedents have led Hungarian society to hundreds of thousands of families in a hopeless situation in which they could not pay their repayments. Once again, a very important part of this aid package or of this package to assist foreign exchange creditors is the bill which settles the unfair regulation by which the banks arbitraryly set new and new conditions for the credible, which obviously meant a significant increase in costs for them. According to the bill, financial institutions should examine the general contractual and individual terms and conditions applied to consumer loan contracts covered by the proposal and also examine whether they include a contractual clause providing for unilateral contractual amendments, which is either part of or not individually negotiated. We discussed earlier that there was insufficient information. When credit agreements were signed, and when these loans were granted to them, people were not enlightened about how, at what rate, they would be charged with their monthly repayments, and they did not even know to what extent they would have to bear the exchange rate risks themselves. [[18.00]] The proposal also provides for pending lawsuits. It is a very important issue that lawsuits where the debate is on the exchange rate gap and on the increase in interest costs and charges in unilateral contractual amendments are suspended. The bill is the first part of the process in which foreign currency loans are fully exported. Both the Prime Minister and Minister of Economy Mihály Varga indicated that we would like to reach a state by Christmas that no credible person in Hungary has a foreign currency loan, and everyone will be given the opportunity to forint this loan. After that, we will still need further steps after discussing this bill, as the present proposal alone cannot address all the issues. So Parliament must expect further steps to be taken in the autumn, following the September session, to discuss further legislative proposals before the House that will go through this process. We are very confident that a regulation, a law on this issue, will be created that will clarify and finalise how banks and clients should account for each other. Finally, we hope that there will also be legislation on the final discharge of foreign currency loans. We must therefore prepare in this House to address this very important issue at a more rapid pace in the autumn as well. In fact, the proposal before us now has three main pillars. The first of these is the issue of the exchange rate gap. It is not possible to weigh here, the Curia clearly stated that the condition that the foreign exchange purchase is to be calculated when the loan is borrowed and that the exchange rate is to be calculated in an interesting way at the time of repayment. That's a very interesting question. Here is the exchange rate gap, the incredibly high cost ratio clearly charged by the banks to the credible ones. Interestingly, if you look at the credit agreements that, for example, were concluded in the corporate sphere, that banks were able to account for their clients at the central exchange rate, which could, of course, be a much fairer solution for borrowers and, in fact, a much more cost-effective solution for borrowers. Instead of this pass, according to new practice, the official exchange rate of the Hungarian National Bank will enter. This is important because it will not be the individual who will have to sue on this issue, but the State will impose a conversion obligation. The banks must do so within 90 days of the entry into force of the law. The legality of the conversion, so that there is no error in the calculations, will be checked by the Hungarian National Bank as a bank supervisor on its own initiative. The legislative package to be submitted in the autumn will already include the specific accounting for the exchange rate gap, i.e. how banks are to account for each contract with consumers. The second pillar of the proposal is the issue of unilateral contractual amendments. Here it is worth recalling that during the period of economic crisis, banks have unilaterally increased interest, costs and all kinds of credit contracts. Although it is possible to amend the unilateral contract in principle, it has a set of conditions, and the legal unit decision also contains a detailed list of its elements. It should be stated that the amendments to the Treaties are only fair if they comply fully with these conditions. Unfortunately, the practical experience shows that in the vast majority of credit contracts, this unilateral amendment of the contract was not made according to the timetable referred to above. Contrary to previous practice, it is therefore up to the banks, following the adoption of the law, to demonstrate that the amendments they make comply with those principles. With these regulations, it is possible to avoid hundreds of thousands of lawsuits falling on the courts, but since these are serious legal disputes, the draft also provides that all appeals forums, including capital courts, table courts and the Curia, are to be dealt with in the case of litigation. The guidelines will be the rules of civil procedure by setting shorter deadlines and faster procedures in these matters, and the debate will only be on the fairness of those clauses. Ladies and Gentlemen, The third pillar of the proposal is the suspension of ongoing procedures, auctions, litigation and enforcement procedures. As I said, in all cases that fall within the scope of the law, the proceedings will be suspended, just in order to relieve the courts of any burden and involve the banks by means of the reverse proof procedure, and they will have to prove that these unilateral treaty amendments were fair on their part. With the adoption of this bill, we hope that the approximately five hundred thousand still contested credit agreements, which were a heavy burden for Hungarian citizens who had taken credit in the previous period, will be settled, the former costs will be settled, the costs that banks have unduly imposed on customers through unilateral contractual amendments and the additional costs resulting from the exchange rate change will be reimbursed. This will free Hungarian citizens, customers who have taken on foreign exchange loans, from a very serious burden. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this bill, and I very much hope that, following the adoption of this bill, there will be a swift, credible and clear procedure on all disputes, which will always take the interests of consumers and borrowers into account. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-06-30-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP welcomed the Curia's decision. We welcomed the Curia's decision, as it made clear what the bank error was, which required a uniform interpretation of the law in the currency-credited problem package. We welcome the fact that the Curia has stated the unfair elements of contracts that banks cannot apply in the future and for which they have to bear the burden. This bill means the transfer of the Curia's decision, and therefore the legislation will be supported by the MSZP. You will enjoy it, as you will ease the burden by solving part of the currency-credited problem package, even if it does not solve the problem itself. It relieves the burden, as Parliament will say that banks have to pay for unfair contracts and unilateral amendments, and the client is entitled to compensation. At the same time, we have made it clear and do so now that this solution solves only a small part of the whole set of problems. The MSZP's proposal is for the government to submit a bill to deal with the entire foreign exchange credit problem as soon as possible. I would like to remind you that the full solution was first promised by Fidesz in autumn last year, and then, referring to the decision of the Curia, this year it pushed it to spring. Now it's summer, and now the Fidesz says we have to wait until autumn with the full solution. Let's hope you're thinking of this autumn, not the next or even further autumn. At the same time, it should be noted that the main element of the foreign exchange credit problem package is not the exchange rate gap, but the exchange rate risk and the exchange rate itself. It is a well-known but less pronounced fact that in April 2010, just before the change of government, we had to pay 265 HUF for a euro. For the same euro you now have to pay some HUF 307-309, depending on how daily exchange rates move. [[18.10]] In April 2010, a single Swiss franc had to be paid 185 HUF on the basis of the official exchange rates of the Hungarian National Bank, which can be easily verified. Here the deterioration is even more dramatic, as today the Swiss franc had to be paid 254 HUF if anyone wanted to buy. One obvious damage to four years of fidesz governance is the weakness of the forint. I would like to remind my fellow Members that the forint was shaken for the first time in 2010, on the basis of two Fidesz Members' statements after the change of government, one of them has since received the rank of State Secretary for Foreign Economy in the most recent Orbán government; that was the first deep blow in the case of the forint that was fixed after the crisis, and the forint has not recovered since then, thanks to inconsistent, often unpredictable, economic policy and an irresponsible approach in which the government left the forint to its fate. In recent years we have been able to follow the weakening of the forint from month to month, and for a very long time we have believed that the government is simply helpless, simply not one of its priorities, second, third place in the economic policy aspect system is the strengthening of the forint or the protection of the value of the forint, and is powerless simply against the processes. In recent weeks, it has become clear that this is not the case, and there is a conscious government decision behind it, which Minister Mihály Varga acknowledged at the Committee on Budgets: a round pretzel stated that the issue of the forint's exchange rate, the forint's strength or weakness, is not the government's responsibility, which is shaped by market processes. This is a serious mistake, and it is also inconsistent, because that is not what Fidesz thought at all in the opposition, and this was made clear from a number of statements. To mention only the most memorable thing: Fidesz's opposition position is that the government should go at an exchange rate of over HUF 300. If you were consistent, you'd leave now. But no, now they're saying that the government has nothing to do with forints, which is simply impossible. The current government of Hungary has a duty to protect the forint together with the Hungarian National Bank, not to leave the forint to its fate, but to strengthen it as far as possible, within the possibilities provided by the market processes. But the forint does not grow stronger, but weakens, because the government does nothing on this issue, apparently this condition is good for him. Only hundreds of thousands of families are in a catastrophic state, because if the euro still cost HUF 265 today, the Swiss franc would still cost HUF 185, then Parliament would have less such bill because these families would be able to pay the monthly instalments. These burdens are insufferable in the first place because the forint fell in, and the fact that the forint fell in is primarily due to your economic policy. Just as it is clear that after four years of Fidesz governance in our region, the forint became the most vulnerable currency: whatever happens in the world, the forint weakens to a much greater extent than the rest of the region's currencies. The MSZP therefore proposes that the government should not be inactive in this area and intervene in the processes. We propose that the government take on responsibility and burden from the settlement of the foreign exchange credible problem package. We recommend that you set up a financial fund - according to our calculations, it could be hundreds of billions of forints - by delaying and deleting prestige investments, and that you be involved in reducing the foreign exchange credit burden of families in difficulty. We also propose that the government actively facilitate that the crooked credentials can replace the current foreign currency loans with a lease agreement so that they can remain in their homes as tenants from a debtor, so that they do not have to give up their property. In conclusion, we consider it a step forward that, following the Curia's decision, the government made clear with its proposal that banks should assume financial responsibility for unfair contracts and amendments. However, we do not consider this step sufficient to address the problem, and we do not consider the government's attitude to spread its hands when it comes to the exchange rate of the forint, instead of putting the forint in a position once again with an active economic policy, a predictable economic policy that helps the Hungarian economy grow, and thus reduces the problem substantially. With these proposals, we can support this bill, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-30-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if someone from the KDNP Group wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting. Z. Carpathian Daniel: There is no one here!]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-30-213	Mr President, Dear House, It is a great pain for me that KDNP does not wish to be represented in the debate, especially considering that its campaign statements on private bankruptcy had already received my personal approval before the 2010 campaign, so I feel it would have been justified to take part in this very important debate. At the same time, I take a deep breath listening to various manifestations of the MSZP affecting the foreign exchange crisis and beyond the search for those responsible, I am now trying to limit myself to what is ahead of us in the professional field, but even more to what is not before us, because I have a very strong suspicion that this proposal, which is here before us, was not made following the decision of the Curia. This was not started the day after the Curia's decision by excellent codificators, it was not then that excellent experts jumped to him. Once again, this is a suspicion, because I do not see into your processes, but I assume very strongly that we have a well-thought-out, very well worked out and a package of proposals prepared or prepared earlier. I'm not trying to say that the government may have pressured the Mansion in order to support a decision in its previously invented package of proposals, but I'm saying that, in some ways, the horse's foot hangs out. In particular, it stands out in the sense that some banks are doing less wrong with this package of proposals, and it does not result in full bank charges if Jobbik, by the way, naturally supports certain parts of the package that are included in it, so an enforcement moratorium - something we have announced 35 times at a press conference - would be very strange if we did not support it. So I'm certainly not trying to show up in the role of the backup fan, because the good part of what we have here is justified, the good part is well worked out and the good part can be backed up. I'd also like to say a few words about what's missing, but I'm saying it wasn't born after the Curia's decision. The principles were already mentioned before, so my statement is not likely to be far from reality. But what we need to tell you is that if we look at what's ahead, what we can point to. There would be one sure solution that will correct the entire foreign exchange crisis: this is if everyone's credit at the forint exchange rate that was typical of the day of admission was converted into a HUF loan, as most banks in court proceedings still cannot demonstrate to this day whether there has been a deposit; about a fifth of what has happened is what has been deposited. If, on the other hand, this miracle weapon, which Jobbik has been calling for since 2011, is forging loans at the rate of admission, the government would want to, say, do it in the fall - and I assume now the government knows what they're going to do in September. I dare not think that you have no idea how to negotiate the summer with the Banking Union and how it ends. And I certainly wouldn't like to think, as has often been the case, that you will negotiate with the Banking Association for three months, and then you will have a completely different will than you had before, because we have experienced it constantly under socialist governments, and during your administration without a break, so that was about the difference. So we can say that you probably already know what you're up to in September. If you chose the full solution that Jobbik is pushing for, forinting at the exchange rate at the time of admission, you probably wouldn't be playing this game right now. Well, why would they go for a price cut, why would they talk about exchange rate risk if you guys were gonna settle this in full in the fall? [[18.20]] Then I'll ask you again why you want to go on vacation. Where are you going? After all, now, with a well-prepared package of laws, at the rate of admission, this could all be settled, and according to the polluter-pays principle, everything would be held back to the victims. But if that is not your goal, because there is strong suspicion that you already know what you want to do in September, and now you are not going to go to what is the right solution, then the question arises of what kind of back-up deal you have made, or what kind of lobbying and power relations force you to take from the banks now, which is a hundred billion-dollar amount, once again, based on Jobbik's program, and I can only support it, but still, they do not touch the system at the basic level. Because what about the huge amount of money between inflation and increased exchange rates? With the mass of money that the banks can reasonably hold on to on this basis, while there is no realistic basis for this. The banks wouldn't be able to stay with a forint that was taken from people unduly. And the joke is that Antal Rogán will tell you this at a press conference, and that's not what's coming back to us on the paper. It doesn't say that all unduly taken forints have to be returned to people, and banks, you get 30, 60 or 90 days. It says that they're supposed to be going after the Curia's decision, but once again, I'm telling you that this package of laws was done much sooner than the Curia would have decided, certain items are released, the exchange rate may be reversed, some items are repelled on the banks, just to avoid one thing, so that they have to account for all of this on the day of admission on a HUF basis. 'Cause that would be the real cut for the banks, that would be the real burden, but you don't have the guts to do it by some kind of lobby or backup, you still don't have the guts to do it. Unfortunately, the multi-annual debate continues. If you had done this in 2010, at the time of the change of government, when you had two thirds of them, you would have gotten out of there, the country would have saved over a thousand billion forints in this process of correction. I'm a little amazed when the MSZP brings back the issue of HUF exchange rate regularly and in order. It is a very important issue, an important professional issue that could be debated. But you don't mean that, either, they call the government the MSZP government, they call it the Fidesz-KDNP government, that they alone and alone in a European Union and otherwise globalised money market can influence the forint price alone. Do you negotiate, sit down with the speculators and convince them not to attack Hungary? You may have socialized that you are in good company with certain international organisations, and then the country may be subject to fewer speculation attacks, but the world, the reality, is not like this. The government of a nation state cannot influence the exchange rate of its own currency alone within the European Union. So what they say is completely unprofessional is far from any kind of professional principle. But we could even argue about it, just not on this issue. The only thing that can be said about this issue is that, yes, the country has an impact on its own currency exchange rate, but those classified scams, the fraud of the century that has happened here, and the partial declaration of what is in front of us, is totally unacceptable. It should at least be stated that these banks, these financial institutions, did not carry out the basic banking activity, so they did not lend the economy fairly. If, let's say, small business operators had been loaned, what would be the need for the growth-enhancing programmes of the Hungarian National Bank or the various micro-entrepreneurship programmes? So we can say that these institutions did not perform their function, they did not want to get rich from the entrepreneurial sphere, they did not want to get rich from premium clients, but the average population, normally the citizens using their bank accounts and banks, were burdened unduly. This, which you have placed on the table, will not undo this unwarranted load. This is very small in cosmetic terms, but otherwise a measurable part and an important part are regrouped, which I can only support. But I have the suspicion that if you wanted to forint these loans at the rate of the recording along the track of Jobbik, and once again, you obviously already know what you want to do in the fall, you wouldn't have put this paper in front of us. So it is clear that after several years of waiting for the Curia twice, after waiting for the pathetic European Court of Justice, after waiting for other decision-making bodies, a new step has now been brought here, to play in this game, which will peak before the municipal elections, in the first or second week of September, in bringing us another package, where it will try to forint foreign exchange loans that are only worth talking about the price of the day of admission, perhaps at a reduced rate compared to the market. Because the difference between the reduced exchange rate between, say, Antal Rogán and Reuters can be swallowed by banks at the same time, with all the money and profits from it, which is not only unacceptable but a very pathetic message for the market. Because it would send a message to the market that in Hungary the population can be legally looted, and the current supervision and the current government cannot, or worse still, do not want to deal with such a situation, even now, with retroactive effect. That is why we can say that the partial introduction of the implementation moratorium is very good, and I can only support it. It is very good that someone who was not a discount finale, but, let's say, he was able to pay off under the standard conditions, either at the price that he had to sell his family property on a very depressed real estate market at a very depressed price, that he had to get help. These are perfectly eligible things, there will be no debate between us in this regard. On the other hand, Jobbik has had a lot of other improvements, we have planned to give extraordinarily, tax-free to all the victims, and we will achieve this, and we must also say that without a complete review of the implementation discipline, or without a state monopoly, as my fellow Member Gábor Staudt has repeatedly suggested, it is not very possible to close the mass of abuses. At least we would want and demand that, after four years of warning, the government act alongside a partial enforcement moratorium against collecting and, where appropriate, half-criminal groups calling Hungarian law-abiding citizens at night, at work, on the phone, personally carrying out, threatening, terrorizing. This is unacceptable not only in a market economy but also on a human basis. And the fact that you guys haven't acted on the merits of this process in four years is absolutely pathetic. So we should take urgent action here. We can see that, according to the calculations, what you now seem to be knocking down on banks can amount to 100 billion or even 300 billion. I very much hope that this amount will actually be returned to the citizens' bank accounts, and I also hope that this is a first step, that there will be a full solution, and that we will either convince you in the summer, or we will force a full solution in the long term, which is the forinting at the rate of admission, once again, on the basis of the polluter pays principle. But we also have to say that if the state supervision system will not be at the top of the situation now, the banking sector and the market will price this loss and then integrate it into its products, and you will not do anything about it, just as you have not done with the transaction fee, you have not done anything about passing on the bank special tax, you have not even been able to prevent the partial integration of the telecom tax, then the banking system will certainly be able to repel this huge burden on the population in a few years. However, this must be prevented at any cost. The Jobbik will be a partner in this, as a matter of fact. But this is not going to happen without strengthening, acquiring and preparing the state's surveillance system in case that really happens. In each case, the banks have tried to use such forms of transfer so far. Today, we have also said that my fellow Member, János Volner, explained on a normal question how the transaction fee was passed on. Not only was there no meaningful reaction to this, but the appointed Secretary of State did not seem to understand the question. So he wasn't in possession of the skills, so I don't want to hurt his feelings about this very important problem. No offense, there's a problem ahead of us that's unsolved. This needs to be resolved, regardless of personal issues, competence, and these issues are unsolved during your lifetime. Hundreds of billions are unduly transferred to the population, and you will tolerate it. The state control system does two things: either tolerate it or do something, but it has no means, no money, no weapons, no steed, so you have to give it to it. They should give it to you, but they won't give it to you. That's the situation right now. That is why I say that yes, this step is a useful step, and we will support it, but only if our support makes sense if, at least as a final solution, they think that it would be worth reprimanding everything to the banks, the banks concerned, on the basis of the polluter-pays principle, to the last forint. So not in a ferocious way, based on fair procedures, not endangering the market, but the combined reserve stock of the banks, of those affected, is still 20-30 times the size of the entire forinting process. This is worth keeping in mind by September and, in the long term, the root causes should also be removed; I will say something: a state-supported home-building and rental-building programme. It's in Jobbik's program because Jobbik had a program for parliamentary elections. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We had one.]] There was one or two other organizations who had one. The government forces have been forced to continue. Well, we see, they're continuing, because the foreign exchange credit crisis is still ahead of us. You guys are gonna go on vacation, and in the fall, there's gonna be something you haven't been told what it is, but until then, you're gonna be negotiating it with the Bank Association. [[18.30]] So this is so not a reassuring situation for an average foreign exchange-credited family. But we have to say, with a home creation programme, where, with the involvement of qualified Hungarian entrepreneurs, using Hungarian suppliers as much as possible, we could boost the rental stock a little, make it available at the rental prices of young Hungarians, it would be possible to achieve a situation in which the underlying causes of market disasters such as foreign exchange lending could first be mitigated and then eliminated. I can't do this any other way. You guys have a line of homes in the budget, you know what this is about? The exchange rate barrier from replacing the state leg of 2.0. So no single new apartment is built in Hungary; no young couple can move into a rental instead of emigrating to the Netherlands or England in the knowledge of the inaccessible property. Because that's why a lot of people leave Hungary, not just because of low wages. Overall, there would be alternative market solutions, economic solutions, and Jobbik put them on the table. Take off the Jobbik logo, submit it under your own name, and we'll vote on it then, just do something about it, because you've been pulling the quilt for four years, and you're still not able to solve this problem. And unfortunately, they're about to negotiate with the Banking Association, and then they're about to take a vacation, and they want us to sign a blank check in the fall. This is what is unacceptable, not what is on the paper, because, once again, we can support the details of it, but only if the principles and philosophy behind it point towards the real solution and are not part of an election campaign. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-06-30-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-30-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This bill is correct, which is why we support it, but it is certainly late, it is incomplete - and I will also say this - and it is now very damaging to the fact that, in the course of the budgetary debate, the LMP's amendment which specifically intended to increase the capacity of the courts in the light of the lawsuits arising from foreign exchange credit agreements and the foreign currency credit crisis is not supported. You swept this off the table last November, but now, because of the amendment of the law before us, there is a danger that there will be so much lawsuits flooding the justice system that virtually these court channels will be clogged. So I would like to draw the attention of the government first of all to the fact that, in order for this law to be implemented in substance, and for the uncertainty to be eliminated in a short period of time, the credit-damaged people, and not least over the head of the national economy, would need additional budgetary resources from the courts. It is not possible to do so in the planning of the budget as if there were no special crisis area which, even in relation to the other lawsuits, would put an extraordinary burden on Hungarian justice. This task, which may follow from this package of laws and, where appropriate, from September, which has been announced, can be carried out if the capacity of the courts is increased by legislation. This package of laws alone, or the following, is useless if uncertainty remains in the system. Because what I think is important to say first is that if we appreciate the bill, why it was necessary at all and why the LMP considers this proposal to be delayed. This currency-based credit facility itself is, in our view, a defective product, even a toxic product. That is why we believe that, while we have consistently represented the principle of the sanctity of contracts in the last four years, and that the state should preferably not interfere in closed relations with a contractual product which involves the deception of the consumer, since it was originally brought to life as a fictitious financial bubble, I think it would be cynicism and hypocrisy to operate on the same principles as in ordinary commercial relations, which are inherently fair contracts. It is also important to say that when we call these credit transactions, these financial engineering products a toxic product, we are thinking not only of credit-damaged families, not only of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also of the fact that, by flooding the Hungarian national economy with this toxic product, the banking system has also built a serious barrier to development in the Hungarian national economy. Looking back on the foreign exchange credit crisis today and for many years, the fact that the Hungarian economy is not able to develop properly is a major cause of the government's short-term implementation of its 2010 objectives. It is also worth taking a detour that the construction itself is also a toxic product because it has strengthened the exposure of the country's economy, since it has now increased not only public finances but also the debt of families in foreign currency to an untenable extent. Hungary will be able to move forward if we can effectively reduce the country's external dependency. One of the first steps of this is to remove foreign currency-based credit contracts from the Hungarian national economy. It is worth looking back at where this story began, and it cannot be silenced that the starting gun was blown by nothing but Viktor Orbán in 2001 by the 88/2001. a government decree. That's where the story comes from. However, we have to stop right here because we have heard a statement from the Socialist Party that the whole currency-based credit crisis is due to a deterioration in the exchange rate of the forint over the last four years. That's not quite how we see it, just the other way around, if you like. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right.]] [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right.]] The fact that this crisis has deepened is the reason that after 2002 - not necessarily a government responsibility, but the responsibility of central banks, the Járai and Simor central banks - the exchange rate of the forint was artificially high. There was one reason why they thought it would reduce inflation, which was not possible. (Péter Cseresnyés: That's right.) But the consequences were... It was also a background event that the rate of the forint was kept very high artificially because the interest rates on the forints were constantly increasing. By increasing HUF interest rates, this artificially held HUF exchange rate almost drove families and small businesses into these foreign exchange-based credit schemes. You couldn't get a HUF loan! And virtually the artificially held forint exchange rate was at least partially, but not in small part, responsible for being led by families, small and medium-sized enterprises. So what happened in the early 2000s was practically a state-wide deception of families, a deception of small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, it should not be boasted that before, before 2010, or before 2011, the exchange rate of the forint was quite high, but rather to be most ashamed, because the artificially held forint exchange rate is a major cause of this faulty product being bitten by the Hungarian national economy. And, of course, there would have been an instrument in the hands of the then parliament and then governments to contain the spread of this defective product. I would point out that, at the turn of 2006-2007, the Swiss central bank warned several Eastern Central European countries about the risks of this type of product. Poland has taken action, Croatia has taken action, but the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai have ignored this warning in an irresponsible manner and the then central bank management has irresponsiblely ignored it. It would have been a dog's duty for the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai and the Járai and Simor central bank management to start negotiations with the Swiss central bank after 2010, which would have allowed foreign currency-based credit products to be removed from the national economy as they did in Croatia or Poland, for example, or in other countries in the region, without disrupting the banking system. They didn't, and so, let's say, the primary responsibility is the Gyurcsány government, the Bajnai government, which has slept with the banks with an obscene banking code of conduct and, of course, the second Orbán government - not to mention the two central banks. It is also worth recalling the scale of the measures taken by the second Orbán government in the possession of two thirds. [[18.40]] It was obviously almost as superficial as the continuous eviction moratorium, which we voted for in any case, because a good person could do nothing but vote for it, but in each case we reminded the two-thirds majority that this is far from a solution to the problem. Final repayment was not an effective instrument despite two thirds, because it didn't help exactly the same bottom 75 percent who were most vulnerable to the basic livelihood of the entire foreign currency credit crisis. In the case of the exchange rate barrier, the story was that for three and a half years, until they realised that this story could be very important for the 2014 election campaign, it was also the most needy, so they did not allow the exchange rate barrier to be used, not to mention that we know that the exchange rate barrier as a construction is once again not a solution to the problem. And the device manager was a ridiculous rubber bone. I mean, what kind of asset manager is that that's not an asset? You've created an unwitting asset manager. On the other hand, the LMP was already in August 2011, when, indeed, as our fellow Member Burány pointed out, the forint exchange rate was skyrocketing; it is also important to mention this date because it is 29 May 2010, i.e. the government's entry into office and August 2011, so when the forint exchange rate ran away, the government has spent a lot of a year in addition to the continued extension of the eviction moratorium... Constantly? ! No, it's not. During some periods, it was extended, and during the intermediate period, drive-by lads knocked old people and families out on the street. So between these two dates, you didn't do anything. They didn't do anything! The boasting of two-thirds was inadequate to respond effectively to the crisis in foreign exchange-based credit transactions. Nothing happened between May 2010 and August 2011. At the 2011 exchange rate crisis, we put the concept of a national real estate fund on the table. This would have given us the opportunity, in this fund, not only to help those who have a debt of more than 90 days, to save them from the fear of eviction, but this national real estate fund would also have been an opportunity to look at the basis of a community tenancy, precisely because of what our colleague Z. Carpath said just now, as there is a 25-year debt to this political elite that there is no massive community tenancy, and this is one of the causes of structural unemployment, among other things. As long as there is no massive community housing in this country, as in other EU countries, we will not be able to solve the most basic employment problems. We also proposed last year or this year in several legislative proposals - and the two-thirds majority and the government still do not provide a solution to this - that once we acknowledge that this construction is a defective, toxic product, then let us also say that enforcement cannot be carried out on the basis of a notary deed, by circumventing the judicial path, on any of anyone's assets. You have rejected this proposal, since you continue to support the banks, but there is black and white here. If it is true, as is the justification for this bill, that it was an inherently speculation, deception, financial bubble construction, then there is no room for dissembling, it must also be said that there is no way to enforce anyone's assets on the basis of a notary document. Two: if such a pig construction has already been used by banks, look people in the eye and it must be prohibited - we have also tabled a bill three times - factoring in such transactions: do not transfer claims to half-criminal collection companies! And not least, we have also proposed that, drawing on the lessons learned over the past 13 years, the Civil Code bans the use of such banking transactions and banking consumer contracts in black and white for the future. The Ptk. say that all this type of construction is null and void in the future. This did not happen, nor does this bill itself offer a solution. On the other hand, we are also making two amendments to the bill. One relates to the fact that Article 3 of the proposal states that: Paragraph 4 of Section 4 is not entirely clear that the required calculation method should be applied only when calculating the value of the instalment or when calculating the capital of the loan. The aim is clearly the latter, which is why we are proposing to explicitly fix this. And, let's just say, if you goose, be fat, let's also go down the road: once we assume the unfairness of banking terms in the case of unilateral contractual amendments, this is not just about the fact that the banks have raised interest unfairly by means of unilateral contractual amendments. The reverse of this is also true: for these schemes, the banks did not regularly reduce interest rates when market interest rates otherwise decreased. That is why we are proposing that, when the banks have put us in order, taking advantage of the possibility of unilateral treaty amendment, but rarely reduced when the wind has turned around, we should include this in the circle that legislation now wants to repare. Our amendment makes it clear that it is also unfair contractual practice if the bank has once made a legal increase on the basis of a law, but has not made use of the reduction in the opposite direction of the circumstances underpinning the increase. We therefore propose that, when applying the principle of symmetry, we also take into account the fact that when the exchange rates actually started to decrease in the case of the once increased interest rate, why the reduction was not enforced by the bank for the consumer. So the story is round and logical. I ask the government to consider these proposals. By the way, we support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Mr Gábor Fodor. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-217	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, in this debate, to comment on the position of the Liberal Party myself, to express our opinion, which will be different from what my fellow Members before me have said, given that - and here I would like to put our position straight to the very beginning - we will not support this proposal on the part of the Party, and I will vote against it as a representative of the Liberal Party. Why am I doing this? Well, let me give you a few reasons. First of all, let me begin by saying that, in my view, the proposal which is before us is both legally correct and fair in its own way, I would like to commend the Minister and the staff behind it, because, moreover, the decision of the Curia is correctly and precisely passed through by the proposal. I note that it is also witty in that it contains elements such as the rebuttable presumption, which is a particularly interesting construction of what Mr András Schiffer said earlier, namely that there would be a great deal of lawsuits around the judiciary, if I did not think this was a clever idea in the proposal, these lawsuits could essentially stop the operation of Hungarian justice. I think it's a witty idea. That's not the problem. That's not the problem with the whole proposal. The problem is essentially the Curia's decision. Of course, as a legitimate citizen and a legitimate politician, I take note of and accept the decision of the Curia, but the decision of the Curia is still questionable and critical. I think the Curia didn't make the right decision, it didn't make the right decision, it wasn't entirely in line with your decision in December, and the Curia is on the wrong path. The Ministry of Justice, by the way, met the requirements of the Curia, which we have before us is the codification of the Curia's decision and its formation. This may be done quickly, perhaps long and already feeling the decision of the employees, but one thing is certain that they will put the decision of the Curia before us in substance in a proposal. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the proposal is correct in this regard and I believe that it is legally correct. The things behind it, as I said, are the political and legal aspects behind it that are questionable. What is really debatable about this whole situation? First of all, I believe that the decision of the Curia on the exchange rate gap and the unilateral amendment of the contract - as I mentioned above - is not entirely in line with its previous decisions. [[18.50]] I have strong doubts that this is correct and that this decision is legally correct. What's the December decision I'm referring to, and I don't see full consistency? We do remember that in December, the Curia also decided on foreign exchange credit issues and said three important things in this decision. One was what he said that foreign currency-based forint loans were not illegal. It was an important thing. The second is that the exchange rate risk was not transferred to customers by the banks, but is the essence of the type of credit itself. The third thing you've said is that the risk to the exchange rate is entirely borne by the client. Now, of course, there may also be fluctuations in the Curia's position, although I note that legal certainty is rightly required in a country, it does not allow such an important judicial forum to have conflicting decisions. Nor is it right that legal uncertainty generally prevails in the country's legal order. Let us think that there is a credit facility that has been said here in this House, and there has been a strong criticism of this, as we have heard from the LMP, Jobbik, and from elsewhere very critical voices, so there are those who already consider this foreign exchange credit facility to be a bad construction. But it must not be forgotten that there may be different theories, that many may think that they had created this in a bad way at the time, or who knows what other underlying intentions were. One thing is certain: if we now remove these intentions from the story, then we see that the economic situation has changed fundamentally since then. There has been a major economic crisis, we have a government that has been responsible for four years to see if it can resolve this situation - and it cannot - and I would like to say a few words about it as well. Not least, the most important thing is that when this construction was created, countless public bodies supervised this area, countless public bodies would have had the opportunity to intervene, criticize and modify what was before it. He didn't do that, and obviously it wasn't because there was some mysterious conspiracy in the background, it was because of the expectations of that time, the market perception of that time, that structure. In the meantime, a major economic crisis and internal political processes in Hungary put hundreds of thousands of people and families in an impossible situation, this is another issue. We need to help, but it does not follow that we need to help in a way that otherwise leads to legal uncertainty in the country. Well, that is why we cannot support this proposal before us. We must not forget how to find a solution to this. A solution could be found because, for example, we have submitted a proposal for this to Parliament, a proposal for a resolution in which we have put a proposal for a solution and a draft solution before this House. There are several elements to this, and I would like to refer to it now. I told you before that the government would have had four years to do something and solve this crisis. More people have also referred to this, starting with Sándor Burány, as I said, through the LMP and Jobbik, through my fellow Members who spoke, that four years would have been available here for the government to do something. Indeed, it is an important fact that in the last four years, the repayment of an average foreign exchange tax has increased by 40 percent. This applies for the last four years compared to 2010. So the person who paid about HUF 50,000 will now pay more than HUF 70,000 as a payment. You can't pin this on anyone else, it's the result of the past four years. This is the result of the economic policy that has so weakened the exchange rate of the forint. So the huge burdens have recently been loaded on the shoulders of foreign exchange credentials. That's why they should be helped. It's also for the government, but for the record, it's the whole country's responsibility to do something about it. What do we think, as opposed to the proposal that is before us, which - I would stress once again - is correct, but I do not think it is good, it is not suitable, it does not solve the problem, and it is based on a controversial decision in Curia? So what can be done instead of this proposal? How can the problem itself be solved? I would like to summarise this in four points and briefly state that there is also a solution to such a difficult situation. First of all, we think that the solution itself should primarily cover housing loans and, moreover, housing loans if the housing loan applies to a debtor, because we know that there were many who took out several loans for various purposes of housing speculation. This is important because we need to help those who are truly well-intentioned, benevolent people and who are in serious trouble as a result of the economic crisis and the various political fluctuations in Hungary. What is the point of the proposal? What are the four points in which we can imagine helping? First of all, we believe that the National Bank should be asked by the government to grant a loan, a favourable-term long-term loan for banks, for commercial banks, from which these foreign exchange loans can be replaced. On the other hand, the government should draft a bill on how it can enable debtors to convert their foreign currency credit into a HUF-based loan, and this conversion can be made in an appropriate manner for financial institutions, which I said in the previous paragraph, by the National Bank, to receive long-term loans from the National Bank, and the debtors can convert these loans with financial institutions. Well, in the third point, we think that the government should also ask the National Bank to provide foreign exchange resources directly from its foreign reserves to financial institutions in order to be able to repay these foreign exchange-based loans, to be able to convert them in the right way, i.e. in the relationship between banks and debtors, and thus in the foreign currency released from the freed foreign reserves, half of which should be placed at the National Bank with market interest. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Finally, we would consider it important for the government to make a proposal on the special tax, which states that the Hungarian banking sector, which is currently subject to a special tax, would allow for the possibility of releasing part of these loans both forint loans and foreign exchange loans and mortgage lenders for the purpose of buying housing. And the part - as we know, the economic crisis has led to a significant change in the real estate market, a significant part of the real estate has lost its value - which has been reduced by value and which could not otherwise be repaid by the debtor, is only unduly repaying this part of his credit for nothing, this part should be released from the special tax and the bank tax. Well, this four-legged, four-pillar proposal could really solve the problem that we haven't actually seen a solution to in four years, but just constantly delaying and delaying the solution. Moreover, once again, the proposal we have before us will not be able to provide a comprehensive solution. All we see here is a symptomatic treatment. Moreover, we do not even know where this proposal leads, as there has already been one in this House who has spoken about other proposals from Fidesz politicians in the press. We have not seen these in the form of amendments, but if it appears that the conversion of these loans is not normal, in a market way, but perhaps at the rate of years ago, then again there can be such a degree of legal uncertainty and economic chaos in Hungary that it is a very far-reaching leader. there will be negative legal and economic consequences. So I would like to ask the representatives of the government that, resisting any kind of siren sound, and making no-one pointlessly an enemy in this country, be it the individual, be it the legal person, I am thinking of simple, ordinary people, political actors, banks, which are mandatory and today fashionable enemies, even though we know that it is very important, essential elements of a well-functioning economy, so make no-one an enemy and give us a realistic solution. This proposal is correct, but it is not a solution. It's not really a solution to the situation. More is needed, more is needed, more comprehensive. If this happens, we are happy and happy to support it, but unfortunately we cannot support it, because it cannot solve the problem of today's Hungarian foreign exchange lenders and, in some respects, even the problem of forint-crediters. Thank you for your attention. [[19.00]]
u2014-06-30-218	Welcome to Parliament. Dear Parliament, There are now two-minute speeches for one Member per faction and for the first independent Member to speak. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2014-06-30-219	Mr President, Dear House, I think we just heard a representative of the Bank Alliance in Parliament. For us legal certainty is very important, we have no intention of having legal uncertainty in Hungary, but we consider it a party to the order that stolen goods come back. Gábor Fodor has just said that legal certainty, legal certainty, is a more important factor than the return of something otherwise classified as stolen in connection with a foreign exchange loan. So, if you like, this presumed security situation is more important than to compensate people who could be compensated in every respect. We have had long debates here in Parliament as to whether these transactions, where appropriate, contained any scams, whether they are legally capable of attacking their maladministration. I do not wish to reopen this debate now, because I feel that it is well-known, here the front lines are frozen. I ask one question, which is a rhetorical question, it is very difficult to answer, as the necessary statistics are rarely available, but the fact is that, by examining this proposal and negotiating with practicing lawyers and lawyers, such as the excellent Andrea Damm, who has already brought a lot of lawsuits into a win-win phase, we see that about 80 percent of the contracts signed by the banks are written down and listed as changing the currency involved as a source and then replacing it when the transaction is concluded. On the other hand, when it comes to obliging the bank concerned to present a certificate of where it did withdraw the type of currency at that rate on that day, less than 5 percent of the cases are capable of presenting such a certificate, and not because of the lack and maladministration of the IT system, simply because, according to the quarterly rapid reports, only one fifth of the amount of involvement has been made in relation to the loan outstanding. So, if we look at just this one phenomenon, it turns out that there was no foreign exchange loan here, we're talking about a registration process, where the non-existent exchange rate difference was pocketed on the basis of a record by the banking system from which the stolen property is to be recovered. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-220	Congressman András Schiffer has the floor.
u2014-06-30-221	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Speaking of legal certainty, I can't stand the fact that no one has yet tried to detonate the real bomb in connection with the entire construction. It is a matter of the fact that the credit institution law in force at that time is 78. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 typically includes legal certainty, bank security and rules in relation to risk assessment. This means that the credit institution must ensure the existence, fair value and enforceability of the necessary collateral or collateral before deciding on the placement. This means that in these types of transactions, i.e. foreign exchange credit transactions, banks were simply unable to comply with Article 78. § (1) because it was not possible to tell for a 10- to 20-year-old credit facility whether, if, let's say, the exchange rate of the forint-Swiss francs is released, the delivens, where the loan is placed, will be able to perform, will have the collateral. I am saying this because no one, the Curia, has scratched the fact that the construction itself does not conflict with the law, namely the credit institution law of the time 78. § (1) as such. In this case, if the Curia were to examine this, it would say that these contracts, as constructions, are already unsuitable for complying with the credit institution law's risk analysis passages, then all of them, as they are, are null and void and must be accounted for in HUF. I think that legal certainty would have been precisely served or served by banks in accordance with the credit institution law for the previous 10-15 years only if they could really make sure that the debtor was able to perform. In this construction, that was not conceptually possible. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-222	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place within 15-15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés.
u2014-06-30-223	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some points, perhaps as an overview and as an out-view, half-reaction to the comments that have been made so far. For one or more comments may have revealed that the previous social liberal governments, the Gyurcsány-, Bajnai-government, had no responsibility for the situation, or even thought, as if nothing had happened in the last four years in terms of how to ease the difficulties caused by foreign exchange lending to many families, hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary. In 2010, Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association-KDNP inherited one of Hungary's most serious social, economic and financial problems from the previous two governments. The problem of foreign currency-based housing loans in difficulty is a very serious responsibility for socialist governments. After reaching power at one time, against their initial promise, they gradually eliminated the supported forint loans and actively contributed to helping people solve their housing problems from foreign exchange loans or high-interest forint loans. People have been lured into the foreign exchange credit system and have not been adequately warned of serious risks and have not been protected from their unequal position against credit institutions. Let's take a look at that and see if it happened in other countries of the world, let's say in Europe. There is no comprehensive and well-defined international practice of administrative restrictions on mortgage lending, including foreign exchange lending. In particular, regulations and rules were established in countries where the over-spinning of the real estate market was feared or where foreign exchange loans were very widespread and the stability of the banking system or households was threatened. In these, however, not only foreign exchange loans but also total lending were held back. Certain rules on administrative restrictions on lending and the necessary institutional and asset systems have not been established in the EU or even within the euro area. However, sporadic international attempts have brought partial results, if not all of them have been a persuasive success. Measures have been taken in many countries of Europe, unlike the governments of Gyurcsány, Bajnai, which have seen how the world is developing and have not warned people about the dangers of foreign exchange lending. Let us look at one or two countries at our borders, which, on the other hand, have taken action very early. In Romania, for example, already in 2004, commercial banks were obliged to create a larger reserve behind their foreign exchange loans and warn people about the dangers of foreign exchange credit. The same has happened in Austria, where serious sanctions have been imposed and people have been warned, calls have been made as a soft element and attention has been drawn to the dangers of foreign exchange lending. For example, measures have been taken to increase financial stability risks, the Austrian financial market supervision has set minimum requirements for banks that pay foreign exchange loans, such as limiting the amount of funds that can be paid, imposing a premium on credit interest rates depending on the risk of customers, tightening the credit coverage and also taking the assessment of the creditworthiness of customers very seriously. In Croatia, however, there was also a judgment on what banks should do and what solutions they are trying to resolve to the problem of foreign exchange lenders. In July 2013, the Zagreb court was first in line with the lawsuit against the banks. The reasons for the decision were much similar to those heard in the lawsuit won by György Lehmann, saying that the bank raised interest rates on the loan unduly and in a non-predictable way, creating unbalanced power relations between the parties to the contract. However, the board also stated that the banks had not been sufficiently careful to alert customers to the risks of Franklin loans. So very serious judgments have also been made. Measures have been taken in Poland since 2006 to reduce foreign exchange lending. For example, the rules on credit assessment have been tightened and the possible reduction of the value of the underlying property has also been taken into account. [[19.10]] So, since the mid-2000s, serious measures have been taken in countries close to us geographically, but the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government has allowed the banks to mislead people in advertising regarding the admission of foreign currency loans and even advertised that this is the right solution to borrowing and that they have not been warned of the dangers. The other reason I asked for a word is to try to prove that the Fidesz-KNDP government has done a great deal over the last four years - and, of course, Parliament's decision-making - in order to ease the problem of people who have borrowed their loans in foreign currency, as far as possible, so that they have tried to help us, and we have tried to help a number of tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people. Because, I would like to say a few numbers, the home security action programme has provided nearly 500,000 families with some form of help. We were able to help protect them from the loss of their apartment, for example, but many, nearly 170,000 people made use of the possibility of final repayment, and more than 165,000 people have applied to the exchange rate barrier so far, and nearly 7500 people have offered their property to the National Asset Manager, the National Asset Manager that someone here said did not work. Let's look at what's happened in order, in order of time. In June 2010, a moratorium on eviction was announced shortly after the government was formed. Accordingly, the Government ordered, with effect from June 2010, that the immovable property of the debtor may not be sold until 31 December 2010, an auction notice may be published only after that date. Then, in July 2010, foreign currency-based mortgage loans were banned, so foreign currency-based mortgage lending could no longer be continued, thus preventing foreign currency-based lending. Then, in July 2010, also this month, the eviction moratorium was extended for the first time until April 15, 2011, so the people, the families who might have felt threatened by their properties, felt safe. In October 2010, the next stop - this is the fourth one - is the Rogán-Kósa-type - let's call it the 8-point proposal, where the legislative package contained strict rules against banks in order to protect customers. Such is the prohibition of unilateral contractual amendment, the restriction of interest rate increases and the imposition of stricter conditions that were more important than before, so it was a significant limit for banks. March 2011 is the next stop, which is the fifth: until 1 July 2011 he extended the eviction moratorium. The aim of the ban has been reduced in the regulation. In May 2011, two months later, the home protection action plan was announced, and then the government and the Hungarian Banking Association agreed on a five-point home protection action plan, one of the elements of which was the exchange barrier programme and the quota system for instalments in June 2011. The next step in July 2011 is already the eighth step: restarting foreign currency-based housing loans under strict conditions. This was about the fact that only those whose income is generated in foreign currency can take advantage of this option and can prove it. In September 2011, the exchange rate barrier was extended to the nesting programme. In September 2011, the possibility of a lump sum end repayment at a fixed rate; the creation of contributions and a positive list of debtors, with a significant number of repayments of over 100,000 persons, followed. In 2011, the contributions were extended, and in October 2011, the possibility of a lump sum end repayment was also extended, which can be mentioned as the 12th step. And here we are now in this draft law, which is expected to bring a definitive solution - of course at the end of a process - and the first step in this conclusion - hopefully the conclusion - is this bill after the Curia's decision. It can be said that the government and the Fidesz majority Parliament have already taken a number of measures in favour of foreign exchange creditors. Since the change of government, this issue has been constantly on the agenda, and the measures taken in recent years, as I have already mentioned, have reported relief to nearly 370 thousand debtors, and it can be said that about 150 thousand people, 150 thousand families, have received protection from the measures. I hope it's T/465. The scope of support will be broadened by the legislative proposal No 1 and hopefully this problem will be solved permanently. I would also ask the support of opposition representatives, as everyone has said that the direction is good, everyone has said that they agree with the principles, perhaps with the exception of a speaker. My request would be to support this intention of the government and our fractions in order to ensure that, as soon as possible - expected to happen in the autumn - the final settlement of this set of problems can take place and that those indebted to the foreign currency loan can finally breathe and create a situation that is predictable for them and for the banks. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-224	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2014-06-30-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Péter Cseresnyés spoke about many things that were true and true. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] For example, you are right that the biggest responsibility - and you have listed it, and I say so - is the government of that period when foreign currency lending could run away in Hungary. Indeed, then - he listed the various international examples here - the government should have acted, the policy should have acted in order to protect citizens in Hungary, and not to allow foreign exchange lending to run so far. But I also have to mention that you were in opposition, but I didn't really hear your voice. You could have stood up once a week, just as Dániel Z. Karpát stands up almost every week, tells you and demands the solution to the problem of foreign exchange lenders. In fact, he offers various suggestions on what they can do to help. If you had done this in my opinion during the period of the Gyurcsány government, we wouldn't be here at the moment. And indeed, he is also right that in some countries it has been pointed out to banks that there should be a much larger reserve, because this will not happen. Here comes the question I would recommend to the government that it should be examined. If the banks had indeed given currency and deposited their outstanding amounts in foreign currency, if this currency had been deposited, there would have been a serious financial crisis in the banks. Because this did not happen, there was only one way to avoid it. I am convinced that banks have used double-booking during this period. Debtors were accounted for in foreign currency, while in another bookkeeping it was most likely not in foreign currency, but on a HUF basis. This also raises the possibility of a crime. The last thing I want to mention is that you were talking about 13 steps. I shouldn't have taken 13 steps. We should have solved this problem in one step: for four years we should not have negotiated with the Banking Association, but simply what Jobbik recommended: we should have helped foreign exchange creditors in one step, because nothing has happened to 350 thousand people, and 350 thousand people have not been helped in the past period, so many contracts are still pending. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-226	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa for two minutes.
u2014-06-30-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure you that the MSZP has always supported all their legislative proposals, which are just as small as they are. [[He's showing it with two fingers.]] It also provided assistance to foreign exchange lenders. But if you gave me a historical overview, I'd like to give you another one in two minutes. So in 2001, Fidesz was a government when a law was passed on the launch of foreign exchange credit at all. [[19.20]] Then, what caused this foreign exchange loan to fall, and if you remember, they had a finance minister named Zsigmond Járai, who had been turned into a central bank president and raised the basic interest rate tremendously, thus reaching by 2002, at the end of 2002, at the beginning of 2003, that there was a euro of HUF 230-235. So it's abnormally over-enhanced the forint. The forint base rate was very high, above 10 percent, so it developed for people how much more favourable it was to borrow foreign currency than to borrow forints, and on the other hand there was a positive view of the future; a lot of people improved their living conditions. So they were confident about the future and dared to take credit for it. In the summer of 2010, the foreign exchange credit problem developed with the price of the forint. At the change of government, there was a euro of 265 forints and a Swiss franc of 185 forints. Look where it is: unfortunately, today the euro also beat 310 forints. So the weakness of the forint exchange rate is the real problem, to think about how to improve it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-06-30-228	I give the floor to Congressman Péter Cseresnyés in two minutes.
u2014-06-30-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will be very brief, because it is not easy to respond to my colleague, Józsa. What are you doing? He wants to put responsibility on someone else. I would have liked it if Congressman Józsa was in here when Dániel Z. Karpát spoke. Because he has given you the answer to what you have just raised here. It was your responsibility to start with the loss of money. You put this national economy in a position that made it vulnerable, which caused its exposure to be much higher than in the surrounding countries. And that's what András Schiffer said, not by a fidesz congressman, an LMP and a betterman. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Allies!]] In that way, one of your left party representatives, András Schiffer, said so. So instead of trying to shift responsibility elsewhere, it would be good for you to look in the mirror and think about the responsibility you have for Hungary's current situation for the past 8 years, namely, for your governance for 8 years. That's what you should think about, fellow Member.
u2014-06-30-230	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. If not, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if he wishes to comment. I can see that, yes. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-30-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you for your contributions and thank you for your statements of support. Of course, both László Trócsányi Minister of Justice and I have also heard their critical remarks, but at this moment I would like to express my pleasure in the fact that the House seems to support the bill tabled by the government by a large majority. I can assure you that the next two months will not be inaction, which will be the remaining period until the beginning of the autumn session of the Parliament, but the government, together with experts from the Ministry of Justice and experts from other wallets, will continue to prepare its second step by September or its next step to solve the problem of foreign exchange creditors, the first step of which will therefore lie on the table of the House. Again, I ask for your support, and, of course, as always, we will consider your amendments, which the Parliament can decide on on Friday. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-06-30-232	Thank you. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rules, amendments may be submitted by 9 a.m. on Wednesday without the appointment of a negotiating committee. Decisions will take place on Friday 4 July. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the draft law amending certain laws on educational matters follows in an exceptional procedure. The submission is T/311. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee presented its summary amendment proposal and its summary report. These are T/311/31. and T/311/32. You can learn about it on the network on numbers. Dear Members of Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, for the first time in the debate.
u2014-06-30-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The legislative package on education presented by the Government contains a number of very important measures, based on the experience of recent years, which are well founded and have already been notified several times in advance. In terms of higher education, perhaps the most common and important part of the current legislative proposal is the introduction of the Chancellor's system, which will take place in state higher education institutions. This transformation of institutional governance occurred in the autumn of 2012, and all participants in higher education were familiarised with and discussed the concept within the framework of the round table of higher education set up in 2013. Special consultations were held with the Hungarian Rector Conference and the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, and HÖOK not only gave its support to the government on this issue, but also asked for the amendment of the law as soon as possible after their last general meeting. Despite a number of reference points, I must state that the current amendment is only one element of the planned changes, we will continue to work on the round table of higher education, and there will be further changes on a number of issues in the future. Let us, however, deal with the content of the material that has just been submitted. In my opinion, the introduction of the chancellor system facilitates the application of Article X (3) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. The Fundamental Law states: " Higher education institutions are independent in terms of the content and methods of research and teaching, and their organisational order is governed by law. The management of state higher education institutions is governed by law by the government and their management is supervised by the government. - so the Fundamental Law. Accordingly, an appropriate relationship must be established between, on the one hand, an important academia automation to ensure the freedom of research and education, and, on the other hand, professional farming and organisational management. It is important for the freedom of research and education to be able to operate as a local government through the elected bodies and the elected rector, but it is at least equally important to ensure the professional management of institutions with a budget of several tens of billions of HUF and thousands of employees through the selected, prepared and appointed managers of the government, i.e. chancellors. As regards the Chancellor's powers, there are some key moments that must be assigned to the position in order to perform the proper task. On the one hand, it is a well-founded need to exercise employers' rights over non-teacher and research staff for the entire budget institution, as it can thus carry out its tasks related to the operation and operation of the institution. On the other hand, the Chancellor's agreement should be necessary for the entry into force of strategic decisions and measures affecting the management of the institution. The Chancellor is a senior management manager responsible for running the institution. Thus, if the conditions for filling the chancellor's position are established, as is the case in other areas of economic life, the competence, competence and experience must be approached from the side of competence, which the government will examine thoroughly for all candidates, as it is in our elemental interest to perform effective tasks. The chancellors are selected by tender, the higher education institution itself is not involved in the process, only the state maintainer. The Chancellor is a public servant of the higher education institution and appointed by the Prime Minister and his employer is the Minister of Education. The proposals for the post of chancellor will be announced with a 15-day deadline so that the appointment can take place from September at the earliest. At the same time as the chancellor system was introduced, according to our earlier promise, the old order of the rector's election is restored that the Senate of the higher education institution elects the rector's candidate. With this, the institutions' freedom of education and research will be fully implemented in this respect, as requested by the Rectors earlier. [[19.30]] Let us not forget that regardless of the introduction of the chancellor system, the Rector is the number one leader of the institution. It also shows that no one threatens the independence and freedom of higher education institutions as defined by the Fundamental Law. In the new governance system of state higher education institutions, the Rector is the number one head of the institution, but the Chancellor is responsible for the administrative, management, legal, public procurement, technical and IT operation of the institutions. The Chancellor performs many of his duties at the head of a professional organisation, as part of which he establishes a separate department responsible for economic tasks. There is no reason why this should be carried out by the high-level, legally defined economic director-general. It is, of course, expected that the head of the department under the direction of this Chancellor should have the specific qualifications and professional competences required by economic managers in the public finances system. In a case that has already been discussed in many cases, our bill that we have just tabled is a resting point. Training carried out by András Pető Education and Education Institute for Disabled People is intended for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities due to damage to the central nervous system. Using the world-famous Pető method, which can be considered as a full-fledged hungaricum, the institution achieves significant domestic and international success in the field of this activity, as well as in the training of the conduktor. However, the financing environment of the institution has deteriorated in recent times, so the institution itself has requested that the government take action. In my view, increasing the efficiency of the current funding in the current regulatory environment can be created by direct State reservations of the institution, but the Senate of the institution felt this way when the Senate itself initiated the public reservation of the college in January 2014. I must stress, however, that the college is still a 100% state-owned cft. it operates in its reservations, so we cannot talk about nationalisation, but only about simplifying the system of state reservation, which legally reassures the status of the institution. The new name of the old-new higher education institution will be András Pető College. As a result of the amendment of the law, the University of Physical Education is set up as an independent institution, which is established by the Faculty of Physical Education and Sports Sciences of Semmelweis University. The new organisation will be unique for sport purposes both at European and global level in terms of the tasks of higher education and further training in sport sciences, as well as the tasks of a new organisation that combines sports health and related research in a complex way. In addition to supporting and supporting the preparation and competition tasks to ensure the implementation of the professional programmes of leading sport and training, the improvement of recreational and student sport professional programmes is expected as a result of the proposal. The legislative amendment before us also provides for the possibility of organising dual training in higher education. The introduction of this practice-oriented form of training is expected by the government to launch further trainings in the technical, IT, natural sciences, agricultural and economic sciences fields, which are more suited to the needs of the economy and which further support the placement of the students concerned. In the amendment that allows this to happen, I believe that there is a great potential, and I therefore consider it a success that is an important step in the transformation of higher education. The proposal also contains a positive clarification for students regarding the conditions attached to the Hungarian State Scholarship: if the student changed his course with a new hire within one year of the submission of the previous training, then the obligations otherwise imposed by the law will not come into effect, but are linked to the new training. During the past year, the educational government has been asked to have too much influence on the work of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee for Higher Education, while students and economic operators do not have sufficient influence on accreditation processes. In the current legislative amendment, we propose that the number of MAB delegates be increased by two. In the future, the National Conference of Students' Local Governments and the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry can delegate one member to the Board. As a result, the customer side of higher education is confirmed within the MAB, as HÖOK represents the students, while the Chamber can give credibility to the expectations of future employers of young people from higher education regarding quality education. I am sure that both delegations will serve the interests of quality higher education conversion. In addition, the amendment contains a number of minor professional aspects, such as the possibility for teachers working in pedagogical services to be eligible for supplementary leave, as well as codification and legal clarification. The bill we have just submitted has been discussed in advance with the Hungarian Rector Conference and the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, so we can rightly say that the draft has the agreement of the most important higher education organisations, which is why we ask that the amendments be adopted by the Parliament before the summer break, possibly on Friday. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-234	Now it's time for the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee. A total of 15 minutes is available for these speeches, with the minority opinion expressed in the committee being given in 7 minutes. I give the floor to László Kucsák, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2014-06-30-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is T/311. The draft law on the amendment of certain laws on educational subjects was discussed and submitted 21 yes, 9 non-voting amendments on the basis of which it was summarised. With regard to the amendment tabled, I would also like to quote Article X of the Fundamental Law. " Hungary protects the scientific and artistic freedom of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Hungarian Academy of Arts. Higher education institutions are independent about the content and methods of research and teaching, and their organisational order is governed by law. The management of state higher education institutions is governed by law by the government and their management is supervised by the government. " On the pro-government side of the Legislative Committee, it was also said that the government's intention was to implement and enforce this intention by the state, not through a delegated chancellor elected by the Senate. The Chancellor's institution introduced by the submitted bill and specified by the proposed amendment is clearly responsible for overseeing the management of higher education institutions. It follows from the above-mentioned basic rule of law that opposition criticisms which express constitutional concerns about the Chancellor-type system are absolutely unfounded. According to the pro-government position, this proposal, this amendment, creates the right relationship between important academic autonomy to ensure the freedom of research and education - the powers and role of the rector - and professional management and organizational management of public funds; the latter will be the chancellor's competence. The opposition assessed the rules applicable in the future in the field of sport and art higher education as a dispute point at the Legislative Committee meeting. As a member of the Government, I believe that the specific management of these two areas is justified and does not undermine the respect of the scientific advancements of the other areas. Finally, I would like to reassure everyone, as has been said at the committee meeting, that the Hungarian State is holding the Pető Institute and ensuring its functioning as a priority. I would remind myself that, by the way, in January of this year, the Senate of the Institute initiated state reservation and is currently a 100% state-owned company. He's a maintenance man. By clarifying the legislative proposal, the summarised amendment, the state's role as a good farmer is strengthened, and I therefore ask that you support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-236	I give the floor to Mr Gábor Fodor to present the minority opinion. [[19.40]]
u2014-06-30-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I have the honour of giving the minority opinion here at the plenary session of Parliament, and indeed, as my fellow Member László Kucsák said earlier, 9 opposition representatives in the committee did not support this proposal, they did not support the motion themselves, nor did they support the committee's single proposal, which will be submitted to Parliament. Why didn't we support this? Before I turn to the presentation of our arguments at the plenary session, allow me first to mention an important, actually formal detail, but still an important issue. This was discussed at the committee meeting by György Szilágyi, the representative of Jobbik, namely that we had to continue our meeting shortly after the start, with a 10-minute recess to read the amendment, and this is not a unique phenomenon. In this bill, it was drastic here, and a number of opposition representatives said that we would receive regular amendments, packages - not just one proposal, packages - at the beginning of the meeting, and there is no way to really review them. In fact, this was the way that we had to discuss this law while ordering a reading break from the chairman of the committee. This is certainly not okay, it is not the sound, it is not the mature, it is not the responsible work, it is the hasty legislation, it is indeed. So I had to say this because, as I said, several of our fellow Members at the committee meeting, opposition representatives - in particular, as I said, on behalf of Jobbik, György Szilágyi - challenged this procedure, but rightly so, because we all agreed with it. Well, on the other hand, I'd like to group these around three points. The first point was what the Secretary of State said, and also the Member, who gave the majority opinion, spoke, and this was the introduction of the Chancellor's system at universities. Well, many of the opposition representatives thought that this was not the right direction. It is not the right direction because this endeavour of the government is not in line with university autonomy and academic autonomy. In addition, in recent years, the government has sought centralisation and centralization in its decisions in terms of its political trend, which unfortunately appears here in relation to the law on higher education, as well as in the amendment of the law on education. The introduction of the chancellor system will mean that the government's extended arm, a kind of commissar, will be placed in higher education institutions through whom it can direct the institutions, especially by the fact that this ominous amendment, which forced us to take a ten-minute reading break, will take the post of the economic director from the system, so it will eliminate this, so there will be no such duality from the system, so that the institutions will be directly under government control both economically and partly politically, as the Chancellors will be the actors appointed by the Prime Minister for higher education. We consider this direction to be extremely worrying and even unacceptable, because autonomy is indeed being violated here, and as I myself argued against it at the committee meeting, I said that autonomy in itself was worth it, because this is what we fought for at the change of regime to create it in higher education, but otherwise it is worth it beyond itself because freedom, creative freedom and artistic and scientific freedom make higher education competitive. If it is not competitive, then our young people will go somewhere else to study, and we will not be able to bring Hungarian higher education to a level we call the European level; that is what we opposed. Among other things, Vice-President István Hiller was at the committee meeting, he missed the general concept of the government, saying that such important matters should be decided as part of such a comprehensive concept. Vice-President Gergely Bárándy, Vice-President of the Committee, also found the efforts to reduce autonomy inappropriate, and Mr György Szilágyi spoke to Jobbik about the fact that if such a system of chancellors has already been introduced and such appointments are to be made, the rules should indeed be changed as to who can win this post, because this is not regulated with sufficient detail and insufficient precision and even with insufficient responsibility. Well, the other controversial point was about the Pető Institute, as we also heard the reference. We, on the opposition side, have said that it is not right to face centralization here too, namely that the Pető Institute is essentially nationalised by the government. There have been certain attempts to do so before, even a few years ago, but this has really happened here. The fact that there are anomalies, economic and professional problems around the Pető Institute does not mean that nationalisation of the Institute is necessary, and indeed our fellow Member, Mr Korózs, who was not a member of the committee, made this point. Finally, the third point that the opposition has debated is the separation of the University of Physical Education, and in this connection, in the field of sports and art, the facilitation of the rules on how to get a university teacher's appointment, a doctorate. Many have already made this bill to the name of Pál Schmitt in the press in order to become a university doctor with the title of Olympic Championship, but this is not the interesting fact, but the fact that it goes against the independent separation of the University of Physical Education and the development of higher education integration efforts is not justified enough. On the other hand, this type of design or allocation of doctoral titles - as István Tukacs and Gergely Bárándy mentioned at the meeting among others - means that all respect for excellent athletes, all respect for excellent artists, no one wants to dispute this, but the fact that someone who is an excellent athlete, an excellent artist does not necessarily make him evident, so it is clear that he is able to manage a department, for example, and he is able to organise the work properly there, i.e. this proposal is not sufficiently mature. Well, on the basis of these considerations, the minority of the committee, the opposition representatives, have consistently rejected this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-30-238	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-06-30-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I have heard and found that attention was essentially focused on higher education and, in particular, on the position of chancellor, although this package itself is more extensive, and let us not forget that it affects a number of areas of public education where it brings positive and positive, positive changes to stakeholders. So, apparently, the criticisms were also around the Chancellor's theme, so allow me to state our position on this matter. Gábor Fodor said that he or the opposition views that this is wrong, that autonomy is damaged, and that it is not a European solution. I would like to point out that if we raise our eyes just a little bit, look a little further west, we can see that in Germany, the Chancellor's system is accepted, known, general, in the Anglo-Saxon world, the presidential system is known, accepted and general. So to say that the chancellorship as such, this kind of university management, university management structure would be something alien to life, not European, and the devil knows what it is, it just doesn't correspond to reality. Furthermore, speaking of the chancellorium, let us not forget that the university system has a historical past in Europe. Universities were formed in the Middle Ages, and for long and long centuries the universities were run by chancellors, and it was appointed by the maintainer - this was the church for a long time, so it was the competent archbishop - and the professors chose the rector in the field of study and science. This model, by the way, in the western parts of Europe, in the Anglo-Saxon world, of course, taking into account many aspects of the changes of time, has remained fundamentally, precisely by having either a presidential system or a chancellor system. That is basically what this proposal is about. At universities of such size, which do not in one case manage cities with county rights, we want to place them under the control of a professional management, which does not affect and does not violate the freedom of research and education, as it is clearly organised and guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. [[19.50]] At the same time, it is good to remember that all the slogans about academic autonomy have not been a sure guarantee that, let us say, this huge wealth or just money has actually been used effectively and well in every case. I don't want to name specific institutions, but we've learned from the press in recent years about the nature of investigations or suspected cases of abuse. These are, of course, matters concerning higher education. So I don't think at all that sour cream has been my life and everything has worked perfectly. At the same time, any university or higher education institution we look at, the rectors whom the university and higher education community found worthy of this post were obviously excellent scientists, because every time, however many amendments were made, the higher education law provided for basically scientific criteria for the person of the rector. One can be an excellent physicist, biologist, literaryist, ethnographer and a long list of academic areas; it is no guarantee at all that as the number one supreme leader, a system of this scale can see through and manage with the greatest responsibility, even if there was a system called a professional apparatus, because the professional apparatus system essentially told what would happen, and in most cases the rector agreed. Of course, it is possible to shake our heads on this, that this was not the case, and now, with some simplification, the practice of the ordinary world has worked that way in many cases. These rectors were excellent scientists, for whom the dilemma was constantly in mind that the year Eks was a great university management, university system management means that for four years, eight years, who was a rector, would otherwise fall out of his scientific activities. This is a different burden in different fields of science, but it is not easy in scientific life to fall out for years, to reconnect with the news stream, at all, into the blood flow of scientific life. I think that it is also worth considering in this respect that it should be a professional management of the university system. This idea is not new, by the way. So no one can say that he caught him unexpectedly, surprisingly. As early as the first Orbán government, these plans came to light. The other question is, this hasn't come up yet. However, from 2012, who only paid a little attention to the world of higher education, he knew that negotiations of this nature, negotiations, and pre-productions were indeed taking place. This was also discussed at the round table in higher education. So it couldn't have been unexpected, and we can't even say that the Rector's Conference would have triggered intense opposition. I'm not saying that all the rectors were happy, but there's no way to say that they'd come across a unanimous rejection. We must say that from this point of view, depending on the attitude of everyone, the higher education world is much more accepting of this idea than rejecting it. If we think about why we have to introduce this now, we can obviously hear such suggestions, trade union manifests and so on, one thing is good to see. Firstly, it is not immediately generated by all institutions, as it is a prolonged process. It can be introduced from 1 September where, in this respect, the personal conditions and so on are available. We need it from 1 September, if you think about it, because the new system has an internal legislative, if you will, to be interpreted in the university world. There are 60 days to set up a new administrative structure within the university system and so on. All this is so that the next calendar year, if you like, budget year, will be able to start in 2015 with this in mind. I think that this should be done, especially at large universities, where the most responsible management of state wealth is expected and in all respects, I think it requires transparent treatment for voters. I am convinced that if, in Hungary, there was a chancellor-type managing director in higher education institutions, looking back over the last decades, I do not believe that PPP construction investments have been made to the extent that they have been made in recent years, and the burden of which is still being borne by a great many institutions, and the burden of which many institutions continue to moan to this day. Regarding the University of Physical Education, Gábor Fodor said that it is contrary to integration that he is divorcing his current mother institution. You have to admit, I do. But let us also add immediately that the entire higher education in Budapest has been the living denial of the spirit of integration since its existence. In fact, the integration law that was born in relation to higher education and, theoretically, was actually implemented in many places from 2000 onwards, it looked as if the separate universities of rural cities had actually become one. It became a Szeged, a Pécsi, a University of Debrecen, and so on, and not in Budapest. The various institutions in Budapest have come together in a strange way, so that they can check on paper that they had integration. Let's be honest, I don't. In many cases, different units have come together in a life alien way. And life is like, after a while, these life-stranger things are gonna freak out, and then you can't do that anymore. I don't think we should push what we can't. Then let's try to see what's operational and what's good in life, practical and based on common sense. By the way, Pető Institute, let's be honest with you, it's always been government money. During the previous cycle of the Pető Institute, crocodile tears were shed from the opposition benches about when the government would move, when it would provide a lifeline. It happened. From the point of view of responsible farming, let us be honest, it is not possible to continue to fund a private company that is a poor farmer with unchanged reservations. You have to touch it. If it's been running on state money and it's been mistreated somewhere, just think about the press and stop going, then why should we maintain the same construction? This is what Gábor Fodor is asking for, and in principle the opposition, because he said that he represented the opposition's position. I think it's okay. An important activity is carried out by the Pető Institute, the money must be provided with public money, but it must also be provided for its real purpose-oriented use. That is quite simply what it is about, and that is why this circle will be expanded, so the circle of state-owned colleges with another institution. I think it's okay. The question of training schools is also dealt with by this law, I think, correctly. After all, it was not clear from previous leaders and ideas about where the teachers of the training schools belonging to higher education institutions belong, what their status is, who will be the practitioner of the employer's right, the rector or the chancellor. From this point of view, the proposal submitted gives a clear picture and tells us that the rector is connected to an educational task. It's also about dual training. By the way of dual training, one can no doubt have feelings about how and how it is worked out or that it is not worked out. One thing I would like to draw attention to is that it is a fashionable term, but whether it should be used or not, I am not convinced. For, for example, since the world is around, medical training is not possible without practical training. If you like, dual training, I don't know how long. But the same can be said about agricultural education or education, and I do not. Obviously, this can be refined in many ways, and the actors of the economic sphere can also be approached. It is a good initiative on the part of higher education, and obviously there are many possibilities for this, but it is once again a task, the kind of management task that may not be given to all institutions in the current management structure. [[20.00]] I'll give you a specific example to make it clear. At a time when a university enters into cluster contracts with industrial actors, it is typically a function that is a legal, economic, management thing on one side, and indeed a very serious knowledge content on the other side. And there are more and more applications and projects that come up as a question of knowledge transfer when it comes to cooperating, whether you want it or not, if you want to be successful, the academic, knowledge and management sector. That's why in this system that's been around, there's no such person in college. So it's good to see this. And if we even look at the argument of what the next budget period looks like for the Union when it comes to using the research resource, we can see that, in essence, very simplistically, who can apply successfully, can get serious resources, and who can't. We have tried to push things in this direction over the past four years to prepare Hungary for this new task, and in the future this will be an even bigger challenge, even more responsible, but also a very serious source. Let's use it and adapt the university structures to that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-240	Thank you. I give the floor to István Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-06-30-241	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I have listened to what Mr Secretary of State said on behalf of the Government, and I consider it an orderly and fair text from his own point of view. However, what has characterized the relationship between Hungarian higher education and government since 2010 has not been included in this orderly text. It is not possible to judge or approach a law, a law amendment, only on the basis of one element. I have to say to you that, although higher education and education policy, as opposition parties in previous periods, went beyond the nature of the policy in your vision, it was a character-forming political element, which, after their entry into the government, was mainly in the field of higher education, to put it mildly, they could not carry it out in a high-quality manner. I would like to give you two proofs of this, precisely so that we can see the current legislative amendment in the context in which, in reality, this existed and exists. The Hungarian higher education policy was characterized by the creation of a law at the end of 2011, with the adoption in December, which is not at all. We need no better proof than that we are here today, and we are talking about this, that you have failed to meet your expectations, and this is a very dull and delicate opposition speech. I could also say that, in terms of quality, it was a lousy job, it was a collated law, especially a non-conceptal law, which, moreover, did not change, but showed the creation of a completely new law on higher education from some kind of false revolutionary heat. And then here we are, two years later, and obviously you realize that the law that's in it is partially incomplete, and that it is vitally unviable. That's one of the characteristics. Another characteristic is that there has been a withdrawal of State budget support to a degree that was unjustified and unthinkable. The amounts contained in the Széll Kálmán plans did not in any way base partly on the intention of fiscal policy, and in part they did not contribute incredibly to preserving the competitiveness of Hungarian higher education, let alone increasing it. In this context, I must at one point complete it, and if I do not harm the Secretary of State, I will correct it because in 2012 a broken process continued, because the round table of higher education was deigned in 2010, and it worked for four years. It is not clear why the field of higher education was destroyed, and only when the area of higher education was taken away from Secretary of State Hoffmann, Minister Balog began his activities again with his step in the round table of higher education, which was not yet questioned in this case. The amendment of the law, and it is right that the lead speaker of the majority group has drawn attention to this, is not only on the subject of higher education; so I would like to say now that my fellow Members will deal with the part of public education, such as the Pető Institute and other issues in the legislative amendment. I would like to highlight the issue of higher education here, which does not mean that we do not want to pay attention to other areas. The historical overview of the history of universities and the chancellor system at that time, or the current structure of higher education governance in Germany, in German. But please, in itself, the true facts in this comparison do not hold up. This seems to be the reality that the German Chancellery system will be implemented here. Because we have the same noun for a government will as a completely different practice in another country, that doesn't make it so. I wish everyone to spend long semesters and academic years at high-quality German universities. I was able to do that. I can tell you that what is now written here and that the university in Heidelberg, where I studied at the time, is not the same as the university in the history of European universities. That, please, is not to be said, because, apart from the fact that the name is the same, it is a different kind of will. It is also worth pointing out what the intention is here. The division, where academic questions and financial issues are mechanically separated, is completely alien to the activities of an existing Hungarian higher education institution. Tell me one academic task that doesn't have any budgetary implications. Tell me just one topic from higher education that will or will remain in the capacity of the Rector or the Senate that there is no financial and budgetary implications. Because I do not know this in the questions of students in education, nor in international relations, nor in research and innovation. If it is an academic task, the aim is to, say, establish international cooperation on request with another foreign, intra-EU or non-EU institution, university with a Hungarian university, fortunately there is so much, of course this has a financial implications. Just as there is a financial implications for any internal structural, organisational, and even academic scientific change they wish to make. All such matters can only go with the Chancellor's countersignation and signature, so don't tell me that the Rector is still the first man in the university. Then the rector can give the opening speeches, but otherwise the actual task, for which it is worth running a university, is in the hands of the Chancellor from here on out, or at least it is absolutely inevitable. The question that should be considered professionally is that, by the way, the owner, as we are talking about state higher education institutions, should not be able to assert his own vision, his will, in an institution that is fully in line with the state's and, in this case, obviously, the taxpayers' money, in the whole of the government's activities. I think that's fair. [[20.10]] The consideration of this is indeed worthwhile, it is not an easy but at the same time an unavoidable issue of professional policy. But if that's the case, honourable pro-government factions, then tell me why they don't have a higher education concept. How do you come up with an important, truly unavoidable, issue - the governance, governance and financing of the higher education institution as a whole - but the last time in December 2013 the government did not accept the concept you put forward, after all, by the then management of higher education? At present, there is no accepted, accepted view of higher education, certified by your government. And I also believe that you work, you have ideas. I have recently heard thoughts that are very thorough and, to say the least, can generate normal professional debates, from which results can be obtained, but this is not in this law. You are taking a decisive step by not saying anything about the whole thing legally. I have to assume that in the coming years and years, they may say something, while here it is decided how to farm and how to operate a state higher education institution. You are at a disadvantage due to the lack of maturity of your concept, and you are now trying to escape this step disadvantage because of such a period of time as if you were bound to some magical border, and from September 2014, you must be a chancellor in the institutions, either with a gradual introduction, but how you feel about the whole of higher education, you cannot yet tell. I must say that this will cause many and serious professional difficulties and, above all, within the institution. Finally, this division is a government official appointed by the Prime Minister, who, in economic matters and consequently, receives exclusive rights in virtually everything, and the leadership elected by the university is likely to result in tensions that will call into question the operational capacity of the institutions. You've all obviously seen that you've actually tried this in the past two years in the Corvinus: you've put a man with economic power, while you had the elected rector and the Senate, from which nothing in a given world has come out but the internal paralysis of the institution's operation, press broadcasts, and in the end you've finally stepped back, and this man, not the person, but the institution, has been withdrawn from the university; and now he's being introduced everywhere. I do not see any logic of this: in practice a model is tested, it does not work, and the effect of this is that it will be introduced everywhere. With respect, as we have explained in the amendments and in the TAB meeting today, I would like to ask you to consider the current introduction of this, and when you have a ready and mature concept, a whole, then bring this up; it can be a professional debate. Otherwise, there is nothing but an idea of institutions. And last thought, it's no longer a professional part of higher education. Everything was legit the way it was done, but it's ridiculous what happened. It is ridiculous, after all, that in the case of education an amendment to the law is tabled, this amendment is submitted to the House with an urgent request for more than a week, ten days ago, and the Board of Education - sorry, it is already called the Cultural Committee, but it also deals with education. Let us assume that the representatives in this commission are, after all, more than average competent for education than those who are not present in it, as well as those who are obviously in the Committee on Economic, Budget or Sustainable Development who are more competent to do so. Now, our committee, which happens to be the Cultural Committee, which is also an educational committee, couldn't discuss it. This will be understood in German, English, French, grammatically, but they will not understand the content of it, since we are already making comparisons here. A law is submitted to the Hungarian Parliament, and the commission cannot discuss it, while fate has led this committee to meet today at the same time or almost at the same time as the preparatory committee that discussed it. Now we are sitting here at nine o'clock in the evening, and we are talking at the plenary session of Parliament about what the Parliamentary commission has not discussed. Well, that's about the way it is. I suggest you don't force this through. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-242	I give the floor to Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-06-30-243	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, From September, the chancellor will become the weird master of the university, who will be given the cashier's key, and he will decide practically everything, and he will provide for everything that will happen in the life of a university. We have heard from both the national secretary of state and the lead speaker of Fidesz that in fact there will be dual leadership in universities. But I would like to say, and to review, who can be a rector, who can be a rector, who can be a chancellor, who can be responsible, who places him in his position, and what kind of a record he has to have in order to hold this responsible position, or how much power he has left to decide, or how much he will have later. The Chancellor is a man from above, the bill is perfectly clear, the Prime Minister is the only one to whom he is responsible, the Prime Minister will appoint him, and he is the one who can remove him. So the chancellor's work must only carry out and take into account the Prime Minister's political will. On the other hand, a rector may choose the rector, the Senate, whose members are involved, the bodies that play a decisive role in the life of the university, so in the rector's view, he must keep in touch with the ordinary actors of university life and meet them in his work. In addition, if we take into account not only strictly the legal rules, what we see from the experience of recent decades is that in general, a rector can be someone who has been involved in the life of the university on a daily basis for decades and knows the employees, students, and the problems that arise at the university. On the other hand, a chancellor, i.e. practically a full-fledged economic leader, can be a person who has three years of management experience and higher education in an economic company. Thus, a person can be an economic manager of a university without a university degree, because higher education means less than a university degree, where appropriate, and has three years of experience in a company of any kind. [[István Hiller: That's right!]] This does not mean, Mr. Secretary of State, what you have said, and László Pósán, that there is a discussion here about professional management of competence and experience with the introduction of the Chancellor's post, but this quite simply seems to be tailored to someone's person, but at least it is questionable whether this part of the bill actually ensures that a person with knowledge and real experience will perform these tasks. [[20.20]] The chancellor's position can therefore be fulfilled even after a very short career, while it is therefore not typical for the rectors, let us admit. The operational nature of the dual driving should be discussed afterwards. The careers I had previously outlined are very different. So, a rector who can produce significant results in scientific life, and even decades of work are behind him to be such a high-ranking head of a university so far, while the chancellor is a man with three years of leadership experience in an economic company who, by the way, has never been in contact with higher education in this way in his life. The relationship between them is arranged by law to perform the Chancellor's duties in cooperation with the Rector. So that's all we're going to find out about this is exactly how these powers are going to be separated from each other. I am convinced that it will not be possible to separate the duties of the Rector and the duties of the Chancellor. They also spoke here in the author's exposé as if professional farming and academic autonomy or the autonomy of its instructors were sterile, rigidly separable things. The opposite is true, I believe, so that the main activity of a university, education and research, has fundamental budgetary implications, and practically the rector will not have access to these budgetary implications without the chancellor's decision. So the university cannot exercise that autonomy without the chancellor, which would otherwise be an element of existence, since it is essentially linked to its economic implications. I would also like to talk about the course of the bill, and not only on the basis of some boring legal rules, but I think that there are many lessons to be learned from the way this bill came before the Parliament. The appearance of the Kehi investigation in the press is the first point, I think, which is part of the life of this bill, although we know it, and László Pósán said that it has been introduced years before, but I think the timing is not by accident that this law has been introduced in connection with events that are considered to be highly maladministration on Corvinus, so it is much easier to be accepted by the public, of course. With regard to the Kehi study, I have to say that we do not say that everything is okay in the management of higher education and that there is nothing that could be improved or stricter than the rules governing the management of higher education institutions. We consider it a legitimate suggestion, even in the context of this Kehi study, to talk about how to make the management of higher education institutions more efficient and effective. But what is happening here is not to give this Kehi study an approach that respects the autonomy of universities, but simply wins over all state higher education institutions and involves the full management of them by introducing a chancellor's post appointed by the Prime Minister. So the Kehi investigation is not a good answer to the introduction of the chancellor's office. In addition, the application of the exceptional procedure in this way to such a major salad law, I think, is problematic in many ways. That if they wanted to introduce these changes from September 1st, and even part of the law earlier, and years ago they had already begun negotiations to introduce the chancellor position, and they already knew that this would be submitted during the extraordinary summer session, I think it would have been appropriate to negotiate in a normal procedural order. Just because, for example, at the Pető Institute, when we asked the Institute's leaders about their opinion on the bill and whether they might make amendments, they said, "Yeah, they know that there is a law, but they only got it the day before, so they got it after the submission, and they can't make any substantive amendments yet. Therefore, it would have been better to pay more attention to the timely preparation of this bill, even in consultation with stakeholders. The procedure of the Legislative Committee and, of course, of course, of itself, of the Cultural Committee, which is now competent for its jurisdiction, has not been passed by this law, it speaks for itself. But it is also that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee this morning, 15 pages of amendments were tabled, which have a real impact on the law, so it is not just technical amendments. We could say that lobbying has just come in on this bill, and I have three things to talk about here. One, which is not included in today's TAB amendment, but is clearly a lobbying activity, is the appearance of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry in the Hungarian Accreditation Committee for Higher Education. László Parragh's lobbying power and his role in the decision-making of the government have already been convinced a great deal in the previous term, whether it is higher education or vocational training, and they are now institutionalising his role or the role of the Chamber of Industry in a body that is simply a scientific body, so the MAB is a purely scientific body, and this will include the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in a completely incomprehensible way to me. Tibor Navracsics University has also awakened that no chancellor will be introduced at the National University of Public Service. This will also be presented in a TAB amendment proposal at the last minute. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why?]] And here I also have to talk about an amendment that is perhaps the most sensitive issue about these issues, which is also related to the autonomy of TF and to the future rector of TF. We support the operation of the TF as an independent university, also after consulting stakeholders. We have seen and have been informed that both the management of Semmelweis University and the leadership of the TF Faculty want the University of Physical Education to function as an independent university, and during personal meetings we have been convinced that this is justified. László Pósán also spoke about integration. I would like to confirm what is the situation with regard to integration and the situation with regard to it, which I would like to highlight with the help of a State Court report. The State Audit Office of Hungary has, however, prepared a report on the monitoring of the integration of the higher education institution network, where it specifically addressed the establishment of Semmelweis University in relation to SOTE and TF. The State Audit Office has made statements that I would like to quote: " The elimination of parallelism has not been achieved at either faculty or departmental level. " " The University of Semmelweis has implemented integration in accordance with the law, but it has achieved very little of the changes set out in the internal regulations. " " The combined operation did not result in cost reductions, on the contrary, cost increases. " " The joint use of classrooms, auditoriums and other educational facilities, the territorial division of the university, has not been realised on several sites. " According to educational opinions, integration was not prepared professionally, financially or organisationally. " And there are similar findings in the State Court's report. So on this basis, we also consider it justified that the otherwise special TF faculty with a training supply other than SOTE should be independent, even because the TF faculty was the most effective European higher education institution in terms of London's Olympics, with two gold, four silver and one bronze medals in London for students of TF. So its international legitimacy and recognition are also indisputable. In addition, in Hungary, a degree in sports science can only be obtained at TF. In this connection, I have to talk about the amendment that either Paul Schmitt or Lajos Moscai might want to make. I have to say in advance that the coaching activities of Lajos Mocsai - even as a federal captain - are, of course, recognised and we believe that he has extremely high-quality coaching skills. That's what his results tell us the most. [[20.30]] At the same time, the question should be asked whether being a good coach will make a good rector. We can talk about whether there are rules in sports science higher education that need to be developed in a specific way. The answer may also be that there is, for example, mass training, which can be used in other classes: a fencing must be dealt with by one instructor at the same time, and other examples can be given. But the rector's task, due to the nature of the rector's office, requires scientific recognition and leadership skills that cannot necessarily be carried out by a coach. We do not want to classify Lajos Mocsai here, but I would ask whether, if the name of Lajos Mocsai did not arise as the potential rector of the future independent Physical Education University, they would have brought in this amendment to open a loophole in this way regarding the person of TE. I guess you wouldn't have brought him in, either. So we believe that the conditions that we demand against the rectors of other higher education institutions must also be imposed in the field of sports science. Thank you for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-244	I give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP group, who will give his speech from the platform.
u2014-06-30-245	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In an exceptional procedure, the National Assembly received the latest law on educational salad. Unfortunately, the newly formed third Orbán government has also continued the regrettable practice of reaching out to key areas in an ad hoc manner over the past four years. The large-scale absolution continues. We still do not see that the government would put a package of proposals, which had been widely consulted, together with the actors in the area, on the table. Under no circumstances does the criterion of conciliation meet that certain representatives of higher education were invited to the Ministry the day before the proposal was submitted to show them what they should accept, like or dislike. With this power, they could have continued good practice and submitted the amendment salad package to one of the Fidesz or KDNP representatives, so they could have saved even the uncomfortable appearance of negotiations. This whole procedure undermines the authority of Parliament. In addition, the situation is very thoughtful because the higher education salad package has been presented without the formal name of the new State Secretary for Higher Education. László Palkovics will be appointed to replace István Klinghammer, who is successful in his own economic field, but who has no experience in the whole of higher education. How can the area of higher education be modified - in addition to raising very serious questions - by not having a manager, a specialist in the area within the government? Who's really pulling the strings? Who invented the latest modifications? Who wants to force their will? Or are Fidesz's close economic groups trying to enforce their will again? Did László Parragh, Chairman of the Chamber of Industry, whisper something in Viktor Orbán's ear during one of his travels abroad, crossing the actors of higher education, as he did at the round table of higher education? But what is it about? The most important part of the submitted salad package is clearly the introduction of the Chancellor system in the management of higher education institutions. The May Other of Politics clearly opposes the granting of government guardianship to universities and colleges, since the proposal is nothing more than that the almighty chancellors, as extended hands of the government, can intervene in every detail of the life of the institution. The inclusion of institutions into guardianship is also capable of making any higher education institution, especially in rural areas, impossible. The one who divides the money dictates; it seems to be that simple. Even with the appointment of the director-general of the economy, the autonomy of the university has been damaged, but with the appointment of the Chancellors we have come closer to its complete liquidation. It is not true that the autonomy of education and research and economic autonomy can be separated, which the government is trying to explain in this way. It is not possible to decide on educational or research matters without the chancellor taking away the funds, not giving a single forint for the given professional purposes. In the LMP's view, the regulation of the Chancellors' powers has been very successful. Perhaps if the laws were presented without haste, preparation or consultation, or if they were not written by one of the oligarchs, there would not be any errors involved. The regulation of employers' rights has been absolutely incomprehensible. It is unclear who will be the employer of whom, the Chancellor and the Rector will decide exactly what. If there had been a parliamentary committee meeting, we could at least have discussed these errors there, but because of the exceptional procedure it was not possible, it could not have taken place, and only here, we can debate this proposal, which will be adopted at the next meeting. But how does the government justify settling in with the management of higher education institutions? He accuses them of not being professional or even irresponsible with money so far, so things need to be fixed. That's a nasty generalization. With this logic, we can be curious that, for example, László Palkovics's former employers, the Kecskemét College or the Budapest University of Technology did not manage these resources in a professional and irresponsible way, as László Palkovics is a deputy rector and head of the department. With this logic, with this generalising logic, this question can also be raised, and what the State Secretary of Higher Education László Palkovics thinks about the irresponsible management of higher education institutions and the system of chancellorship. What the LMP thinks of it is clear, we have stated this in several forums, we have indicated. We know that errors, abuses, management problems occur even in a good functioning, well-funded system. Be sure to investigate them, take the necessary steps inside or outside the institution, but with exceptional examples to justify the granting of government guardianship to the entire system, this is unacceptable. It is unacceptable when the resources of higher education have been steadily declining since 2008. The Orbán government has increased the withdrawal of 5-10 billion from the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments to the extreme, a third of the resources of higher education have been withdrawn in a few years, the state aid has fallen from HUF 190 billion to HUF 120 billion, the institutions have reached the limit of their functionality, they are closing their courses, they are releasing instructors, they are having a coal break, the elevators are stopped and we can still list them. The LMP says that earlier higher funding should be restored first. But, of course, in order for Hungary to have successful and quality higher education, this would be too little. That is why the LMP said that higher education resources should be increased by one and two times. If something is worth investing in, it is primarily education, training, knowledge. Hungary can be successful with strong and well-funded higher education. It is not the community-based society, but the knowledge economy that creates jobs and keeps young people at home. The LMP's vision of higher education has a key role to play in saving and strengthening rural colleges. They need neither chancellors, but the return of resources and predictable, safe planning to finally find their place. A rural college plays a very important role in the life of the region, it acts as an intellectual and cultural centre, it is also an important player in economic life, it creates jobs and, above all, provides young people with access to quality knowledge and their later successful location. A successful rural Hungary for LMP cannot be imagined without successful rural higher education. Moreover, as we have been used to, other areas are also the case, with countries with successful higher education in the opposite direction. I will not stop to respond to this example of education history or even to the German model. We feel caught up in this, too. [[20.40]] One of the two medieval university systems is the Paris system in addition to Bologna, here was the chancellor's system, but this chancellor's system is indeed the same in its use of words only the system we are talking about now, and the difference between the German system and the German system is much to talk about. However, countries with a significantly different history and practice of higher education are similar in three things. The key to success is on the one hand long-term planning, on the other hand direct supportive supervision and, on the third, increased institutional autonomy. Countries where the government is real strategic planning, where there are long-term, jointly defined and agreed objectives, are successful, alignment points where the government agrees with the institutions from time to time. This means predictability, planning and, above all, security. In implementing this strategy, the state will help universities, not only financially but also professionally. He doesn't put all-powerful chancellors on the board, but helps and oversees the institutions through external committees, multi-stakeholder professional bodies. It does not directly interfere with governance, but acts in support of finer and indirect instruments and systematically tries to link the functioning of universities to government policy. Meanwhile, the freedom of the institutions is not violated, on the contrary, there has been a tendency to increase the scope of universities and colleges in all countries with successful higher education. In addition to security, flexibility is a very important component of success, attractive and quality higher education, a higher education from which young people do not want to escape, as we have seen in Hungary over the past four years, but, on the contrary, foreign students compete with each other to gain access to the institutions of the country. Unfortunately, we are very far from strategic planning, the state's supportive attitude and the increase in space, and now we are even further away from all of this. The system of chancellors operating as extended hands of the government, as entrusted by the Prime Minister, reflects a completely opposite approach. No misunderstanding, the Klinghammer higher education strategy does not speak of the need to introduce the chancellor system in the way the government is planning to do. It merely concerns the need to rethink the management and operational practices so far and to implement a common operational model with the consent of the actors. Of course, we know what happened to the document. Finally, the government did not accept it, just as the round table of higher education and the involvement of higher education actors are no longer considered important. To sum up, the bled-out higher education sphere needs not chancellors operating as extended hands of the government, but the restoration of resources and long-term planning. Instead, there is still no agreed strategy for higher education, there are still no discussions, and there is still no involvement of the actors in the decision-making process. At least the new Secretary of State for Higher Education has finally been appointed, but we don't know what he wants yet. Possibly Other Politics asks the pro-golden factions to consider the submission of this question, this law, the salad, is not yet ripe for this system, the development of this. Thank you.
u2014-06-30-246	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The first independent Member, Szabolcs Szabó, will now receive the floor. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a total of eight-minute time frame for speaking to independent Members. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-30-247	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to pick up where Congressman Hiller left off. On the one hand, it is very strange how this legislative amendment is pushed through the Parliament. I really believe that this is in line with house rules, I'm sure it is, but it's so strange that the Education Committee doesn't discuss it on the one hand. We can go beyond that, because, let's just say, I am sitting there, and I am not taking the right to claim that I am the best at this, for example, I have a different opinion about István Hiller, but Ikotity's colleague is there, Dóra Dúró and the MPs, for example, Mr Pósán. We weren't allowed to give our opinions there. But that is nothing, we are debating in plenary that the summation amendment has already been made, so it does not make any sense that we are talking here. For example, if one of us makes a proposal that we say Mr Pósán says would be eligible, he can only say that, by the way, it is quarter to nine, but it will be accepted by the pro-government representatives in exactly the same form as can be read in the summarised amendments. So, my sense of democracy doesn't add up, and I gotta be honest, that makes me feel pretty bad. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The other is more of a personal concern. I worked as a university assistant until 5 May, so even to this day I still think that I am a university lecturer, and I haven't really moved on to working as a Member of Parliament. In fact, university institutions are run by as well-meaning idiots as I am. Practically for a minimum salary, exerting our strength, working day and night, sometimes at 2:00 a.m., we operate this system by repairing, for example, zhs. I could give you concrete examples, not one, when my colleague prints the zhs at home, because there is no money in higher education, I guess everyone knows that, doesn't need to explain, or when the instructor himself buys a tuner in his printer, or when he spends a long, weeks scratching on how to take his students to field practice, because otherwise there is no money for it. After that, let's say we're used to not thanking you for how much work and your own money you put into it, because there's no university fund, but after that, when it comes to changes that fundamentally affect your own workplace, your own community's internal rules, you don't even ask. Mr Retvári, State Secretary, said how long this legislative amendment process has taken place. That's not factually true. The higher education strategy that was discussed at the round table is not this. Everybody knows that. I know of a rector who was called into the Ministry on Friday before the submission of the legislative amendment proposal, and there he was shown that this would be the case there, which would be before the Parliament. I wouldn't consider this a long negotiation process. That wasn't in agreement. I, too, could strongly suggest what Mr Hiller suggested that it would be good to discuss this thoroughly and submit it to this House through a normal, regular conciliation process. I still have time, so I'd like to mention a few specifics. On the one hand, as far as the Chancellor's system is concerned, it is indeed a very nice presentation of the German system, although it should be added that I myself know that the regulation of this is different at the provincial level in Germany. In general, either the Senate selects the Chancellor or the Senate, with the approval of the Provincial Government, so the Federal Government does not appoint the Chancellor, for example, in any way, so this is not exactly the case here. If someone hadn't read it, I'd summarize what the Chancellor would be entitled to. It will take over economic powers, be responsible for the economic, financial, controlling, accounting, labour, legal, administrative and IT activities of the higher education institution, for the management of the institution's assets, including technical, facility recovery, operation, logistics, service, procurement and procurement. What will the Rector do? Technically, nothing. In fact, even in the remuneration of educators, people in research status, the rector has only the power of decision that the chancellor must otherwise agree with. Technically, the rector is not just the strongest person or the most powerful elected head of the university, but he'll be on the same level as the cleaning lady if I want to put it a little more sharply. So I think it's a very hairy way of interfering with the issue of university autonomy. Dóra Dúró talked about the problems with the MAB for a long time. [[20.50]] I can totally agree with that. There is a very serious legitimacy problem with the MAB, isn't there? It's not an answer to the problem of putting the Chamber of Commerce and Industry delegation in there or having an MMA delegate in there. On the one hand, they have no business being there, and on the other hand they do not address the fundamental problem of the government naming the heads of the MAB and the majority of its members. I also think that there are a lot of problems with the University of Physical Education in this legislative change package. One thing is that professionally, of course, it may be justified to separate these two institutions, but separate rules should not be drawn to a university, because we are sewing the coat against the button again. You need to create a third arm, and you can easily be autonomous according to the current legislation also of the University of Physical Education. And it's totally freaky that a scientific research institution can be the rector of a man who doesn't actually do science himself. This is completely absurd! I'll tell you the truth, I've never seen that before. Very briefly and succinctly, because my time is up, these are my most important objections to the law on higher education. And allow only one thought about the Public Education Act. It would create and create an integrated monitoring system after the legislative amendment, which in itself seems even technically eligible, as it is very important to collect detailed data on disadvantaged children with special educational needs, to provide information on their progress and development, but the fact that they want to keep national data on them is quite hair-sucking. I know more or less the professional background of why the pedagogical service supports this proposal, but this can be solved in a very simple way, the spoken language must be recorded, not nationality. Because of historical traditions, I think it's a very dangerous direction. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-248	Thank you very much. Welcome, good evening, good work, everyone. Since no one has made a two-minute comment, I do not have to give the floor to anyone in this framework, unlike the speakers announced in advance, because they are doing a nice job there. Mr László Kiss has the floor, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-249	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There is a bill before this House which, although it consists of only a few paragraphs, has received 27 amendments. I think that this says quite a lot about this proposal. Although public education is only partially affected by the proposal itself, let us have a few words in this area as well. When you think about the real issues ahead of Hungarian public education, we find that this proposal does not resonate with the real issues of public education, but let us look at a few things that have actually been included in this excellent work. The workers of the specialist services are given the summer leave which, by the way, should have been included in the national law on public education in the context of careful legislation. They clarify the operation of specialist services with a few rules, including important rules, which, of course, should not have been brought here again with careful legislation, and, in relation to national education and education institutions, they are very rightly giving the relevant national authorities the right to take an opinion on restructuring issues affecting these institutions. That's very good. We still feel that the legislative heat wasn't very strong with regard to public education. Maybe it's because a lot of people think everything's okay in this area. Allow me to say a few things that may not be all right. They managed to deliver the age limit for compulsory education by the age of 16. The result was that there were never so few children in secondary education as there are now. Mostly in vocational training, there's a lack of children. From here it is practically a straight road to destabilising this institutional system, the institutional system that I think everyone in this House agrees with, should be strengthened, because it is vocational training that can be the future of all of us in secondary education. They managed to create the National Teacher's Faculty. This is indeed a success story, because of over 200,000 teachers who work in this country, about 19 thousand were involved in this process in some way. Well, if we're right, that's about eight percent participation. I believe it is a success story worthy of the government. Indeed, it serves the rating of the National Educational Faculty, that this faculty, created by you to channel the opinion of teachers into lawmaking and everyday practice, yet, if we look at this law, the Pedagogist Faculty had no opinion of this law. I went directly up to their website to see what important suggestions were made on the issue of educators with regard to this bill. I saw that they didn't do anything like that. I think that's a good way to describe the seriousness of this organization. It was not possible to touch on the question of non-educator civil servants, to work humiliatingly low wages, in order to make their employment situation impossible by the restructuring that took place in connection with the nationalisation of the institutional system. It was not possible to mention textbook puppy; it was uncertain that last year the possibility of accessing the textbook and that teachers now have to order textbooks in schools for the September school year which they themselves did not see and which, for some history books, for example, did not go through the professional filter. Dear House, You could name the challenges of public education, I think, in the next few weeks, for as long as I think, but there will be people who will do that. However, I suggest that, if we are already drawing on public education, drawing on the issues of public education, we should really focus on the point, on the things that really interest and affect Hungarian people. This proposal, I think, is only a little capable of dissipating the blur that your laws have caused. I wish you to present proposals to us from September to remove the fog you caused. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-06-30-250	Thank you very much. Mr Lajos Korózs is next as the speaker announced, MSZP. Here.
u2014-06-30-251	Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[While he's pinning his microphone:]] Now, if I can figure this out, I'll be able to do other things. Thank you very much. Dear House, I would like to mention only one aspect of this proposal, and this is my dilemma with the Pető Institute. I'd like to share with the House how I feel about this whole story. I see you're home with one foot, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I'm standing on two legs.]] I guess the game's starting, and he'd rather watch than listen to us. But we're still in Parliament, so I'll give you these few thoughts. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, including András Tállai: No, one is over. It starts later. You've never been to a game before in your life. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Bottom line!]] The author says that the nationalisation of the Pető Institute is necessary because the objectives set by the State can be achieved through nationalisation. But please, during the TAB meeting this morning, it has just been said that there is no concept of higher education in this country that could at all talk about the situation of higher education institutions here in Hungary. After the nationalization of the Pető Institute, the Pető András College will operate after such a nationalization, but it is worth considering that if this country does not have a generally accepted concept of higher education, then where will the András Pető College be integrated into this system. Look, for five decades, this institution has worked at a very high level. I think it is internationally reputable, because the explanatory statement describes it in detail. But I have to tell you, this nationalization is absolutely unnecessary. Mr Pósan has just said that, in order to achieve the objectives, I think he has said that the state objectives - I have written to myself - need nationalisation in order to implement targeted measures. [[21.00]] Dear Friends! He's bleeding from a thousand wounds, not just the presentation, but the institution itself. I would like to remind this House that the International Pető Foundation has operated this institution for five decades, at a very high level, the whole world has been a wonder. Three years ago, a nonprofit company was placed in the institution's neck, and since this nonprofit institution has managed the management of this international reputation, the institution has been in deep flight ever since. The rather lousy answer is that it has been operating with state money, as the International Pető Foundation has been able to involve a great deal of external resources in recent years. Dear Friends! During the three-year deep flight, 700 million forints less resources have been received from the state in the last year than this institution would have deserved. As a result, there has been a very strong deterioration in the quality of the institution and nationalisation is not an answer. In the deterioration of standards, the miracle is that the institution was still able to operate under such conditions, and I think that, unfortunately, there can be nothing left but to merge it with another institution. For if such an activity, such as the training of a consultant, is carried on by another higher education institution, what prevents the State from bringing together two institutions, and it is possible to terminate this institution. If it can be eliminated, the bad languages in Pest are talking about a real estate business, because it's a high-value property in Buda, I think it's the property on the road to Kútvölgy, and there are organizations that have already put the cross on it. I'm sure you all know that there's a police report on the management of this institution. Employees of the institution have filed a complaint about questionable transactions; employees of the institution have filed a complaint about suspicious transfers; they refer to unknown companies and persons in exchange for unfinished work. Dear Friends! These should be settled, I think. In addition, I have written to myself that the institution is in deep trouble with its accreditation, because there is no accredited contractor training in this institution now. It turns out that there is no medical science training in the institution, and it also turns out that the field of public education of the training is not under the professional supervision of the Semmelweis University Faculty of Medicine, but those working there do not know that, more so than ever, because they refused to issue the teaching and kindergarten educator's degree, yet they classified this institution as the pedagogical career model. Dear Friends! They should be answered first, then inserted into a uniform concept of higher education, and then brought to Parliament, not to mention that this Parliament has a Committee on Welfare, and this Committee on Social Welfare has never heard of your plans. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-252	Thank you very much. Here we go, Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz.
u2014-06-30-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to respond to a few points, because I think you've taken our thinking in the wrong direction. First of all, I would like to apologize to Mr President, and I am obliged to respond to what he has to say, but he will not be able to respond in his presidential capacity, but this was not because of my intentions. István Hiller said that academic tasks always have a financial impact. No doubt that's true. But from that fact and the chancellor's position, it doesn't follow that there would be some conflicting situation here or there. Let me give you another example, just so we're clear. Of course, academic tasks have a financial implications. Even without chancellor, universities have handled this type of business in a way that contradicts common sense. A classic example of this could be cited by Dóra Dúró from the State Audit Office's report: for example, parallel training. The academic sphere has not been able to eliminate this type of economy in many institutions. He just couldn't do it because of his own interests. With this in mind, I would just like to express that, in many cases, university-college autonomy may not have been in line with economic operational rationality in all respects. The other thing I would like to say is that Congressman Hiller said that with the chancellor's signature, everything can be done, and the rector will basically be able to give the opening speech. Well, I'd like to point out that you were a former university minister, too, so you know very well that the Director General of Economics has the right to countersign. I can't do anything without it. I can't do anything without it. Should it be said, then, that in the last 20 years, the task of the current Rectors has been limited to giving the opening speeches because the Director General of Economic Affairs signed everything? That's obviously not what they're saying. So I think from this point of view, the comparison is limping. There is no concept of higher education - this has been raised by many. I'd like to indicate that this is what the wallet, the specialty, has prepared. It's customary to link it to Secretary Klinghammer's name. Obviously, there was a much wider crew working on this. But you, a former minister, should know even more that a concept will be the government as a whole if you accept it and agree to it in proper negotiations. To the best of my knowledge, this is at this stage and stage, where a number of issues need to be clarified mutatis mutandis, but such important concepts have already been thrown into the public mind by this concept, which is about the fact that higher education institutions would have an internal differentiation in the name, and this should obviously also be included in many aspects. I think it's a pretty serious conceptual question. When the government comes up with this is part of an internal issue. The Chancellor is not a government official. You have to read the presentation. The Chancellor is, of course, appointed by the government, but he appears as a public servant of the institution, so these are two different things. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró finds the Chancellor's criteria little, if I understand correctly. Undoubtedly, at first reading, one has such an impression. [[István Szávay: Second time!]] It could be the third time. But let's look at things a little more vividly. If we set a lot of requirements, this is what comes up, and I'll give you a very simple, lifelike example. The example, of course, will be fiction, so I apologize to everyone. If the President of the World Bank, let us say, does not have a PhD degree, then he could not participate in public gas training in Hungary as a full-time instructor. It's the truth. Or if you think about the art world, Yehudi Menuhin can't teach a full-time violin. [[István Szávay: The only problem is that you are not Yehudi Menuhin.]] From economic life, once again, a simple example: Language skills are not measured by the fact that a person brings a language exam paper, but simply by switching to English, German, French, and it turns out that the person can speak or can't speak. In other words, in the case of the chancellor's appointment, the appointing officer has a great responsibility, no doubt, but it will be his job to formulate all the criteria in the tender, which he will consider important, because there may be cases of a different nature in the operation of an art world or even in a university. It's good to keep that in mind. Szabolcs Szabó, who has passed away in the meantime, said that there is no money in higher education. I would put it this way, that in some places it is not, and in other places it is almost in excess. Money doesn't go where it's supposed to go in a lot of cases. Remember that it was a court ruling in Hungary, not too long ago, around 2009 that the wages of the rectors could not be secret. It's public money, it's something to be published. And it is no coincidence that the government and Parliament had to decide on the limits that we set, so I think that at that time we should also look at how we are in institutional management, and what kind of money has migrated to places that are not related to basic tasks and not to research. I think if we keep all this in mind, maybe we'll see things a little more vividly. [[21.10]] It is not a good example that Germany is a federal state, and therefore the German federal government does not appoint a chancellor. It's true, they're on a provincial level. What this proposal is about, it says it's the maintainer. In the case of the maintainer, in the case of Hungary, this is the Hungarian state. In the Anglo-Saxon world there can also be a state maintainer, the United States is also a federal state, not the President of the United States, but the governor of that state, if that is the case. Or, if it is a private university system, it may be that it is the maintainer of private universities. Whether it's a body or not, you can think about it again, but regardless, it doesn't change. This is what this proposal is about, that the maintainer, who orders the money, orders public money in Hungary, orders not a small amount of public money, wants to enforce the most transparent and effective expectations of the operation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-254	Thank you very much. There are now two-minute responses, and I would like to point out that, of course, the time frame available to the factions. First, Congressman Ákos Kara, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent minutes, I think we have been part of a variety of approaches. There were specific approaches of a professional nature, there were political types. I would like to respond most now to the so-called excessive political type of remarks that had much to do with the problem or at least the solution to which I think we should all be committed. After all, in terms of higher education, I would like to say that we are debating the post of chancellor, we are talking most about the Chancellor's institutional system, but behind it is the intention, my fellow Members, that we would like to preserve many good examples in Hungary. After all, neither the government nor the pro-government representatives have said that we want to put the good examples that we have now in the background. In fact, if you think about it and not about the institutional system of chancellorpost institutions, we would like to confirm, overall, the good examples where the operation of an institution under economic control, i.e. the economic future of the institution, and the goals of research and education, are paired, even with the principle that comes, say, in the context of dual training, here in the debate, in the discussion, i.e. whether young people are getting such qualifications now that they have a good chance of being able to take up. And yes, dear fellow Members, there are indeed such good examples in Hungary, and I think that it is worth following these examples. Maybe it's Kecskemét, or if you'll allow me, as a Győr representative, I'll talk a little home, refer to the University of Széchenyi István of Győr. So, overall, I would like to say that it is worth continuing these good examples, and I think that strengthening these good examples can be part of the chancellor's post, the Chancellor's institutional system. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-30-256	Thank you very much. Congressman István Ikotity is next, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-257	Thank you very much. Dear House, I would like to draw attention to something interesting in my two-minute comment. This interesting thing happened in 2005, when the MSZP-SZDSZ government amended the Higher Education Act, which was sent to the Constitutional Court by President Ferenc Mádl. The Constitutional Court has canceled, let us say, several points of this amendment on the grounds that they violate the autonomy of universities. In 2005, the same Constitutional Court stated, and I quote: "The Constitutional Court notes in this decision that autonomy and independence are not only limited to scientific, educational and research activities, and in order to ensure scientific autonomy, the higher education institution is also entitled to organisational, operational and management autonomy. " Therefore, the importance of management autonomy is repeatedly expressed in the explanatory memorandum to the decision. We know that this was another former charter of the Republic, and since then more has changed, there have been debt wars and independence wars. Even so, I think that even though a decision by the Constitutional Court is noteworthy, it is this way that it states that this is the case. Thank you.
u2014-06-30-258	Thank you very much. It's Congresswoman Dóra Dúró's turn now, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-259	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to respond to two things that Mr Pósán said, on the one hand, that academic measures and questions have an economic impact. If this is acknowledged, and it is quite clear from the law that such measures cannot be taken without the Chancellor's consent, then it is quite clear that economic and academic autonomy cannot be separated, and the Chancellor is a man who, in any case, had nothing to do with the university before, and the Senate has not even given an opinion about him, let alone elected him. By the way, the Chancellor not only receives licenses from the Director General of Economics so far, but also licenses that have so far belonged to the Rector or to the Secretary-General, so it is not possible to fully parallel the powers of the Director-General of Economics so far with the future licenses of the Chancellor. The terms and conditions of the chancellor's appointment. This isn't about the President of the World Bank. If we were required to have experience, a little more experience, then we would be more satisfied. But it's enough for someone here to complete a higher education course, a three-year management exercise in a cft, as you mentioned, what a billion-dollar farm means, so they don't require any qualifications or experience here, let alone any of the two, and then maybe they'd be less lame. We have tabled an amendment to this in order to have a vocational university or college degree, i.e. a legal, economic or financial college or university degree, and we do not accept the practice of any economic company. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-30-260	Thank you very much. Now the people who have asked for the normal word are returning, and it is for Congressman Gergely Bárándy to take the floor. Here.
u2014-06-30-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would not talk about the Chancellor's system longer now, not only because my fellow Members before me have already done this, but also because I simply interpret this as part of the centralization efforts of public law, and I do not think it necessary to have a serious professional debate about this because there is nothing else happening here but that they have sought the reasons for the political goal and that they are being analysed for precisely the same reason. Different. I would like to mention in advance and stress that I sincerely appreciate those Olympics who have reached the first, second or third place in the Olympics, but I also note those who have not been placed. Likewise, I appreciate, let's say, the Kossuth-winning artists, as I very much appreciate, let's say, the judge in Curia who received the highest professional award from his colleagues. I would also like to say another thesis: I also consider it fortunate to have excellent practical knowledge in addition to theoretical knowledge, especially in certain types of higher education institutions. The third thesis, which I would like to say is good and lucky, I think it is right for excellent practitioners without a scientific degree to be able to teach in higher education institutions. However, it does not follow from this, fellow Members, that excellent practical knowledge can trigger the scientific life course leading up to a scientific degree. I do not think that it can replace scientific research, educational practice, experience in the organisation of education, examination practice, lectures at the conference, the writing of studies and monographs. Of course, it's true the other way around, and I disagreed, and I don't agree with saying it now. in the legal field, the exam can be replaced by a PhD degree. Because if someone gets this science degree, they won't know where the land office is, they won't be able to write contracts, they won't be able to sue, they don't know lawyer, judge or prosecutor ethics or they don't know the rules of procedure. And for the record, the best thing to do is to get these two together and get them together. The Secretary of State, who has achieved outstanding results both in the field of practice and in the field of science, is one of the best examples of this. [[21.20]] It is good to have an excellent practical authority and take the time to acquire the scientific degree, or vice versa, an excellent theoretical expert, and try yourself in practice. Turning to the University of Physical Education, I believe, fellow Members, that a number of excellent former sportsmen have obtained scientific degrees at the TF. That is why we need to get to the point where this proposal degrades the scientific degrees obtained at the University of Physical Education or at the University of Arts. All we say here is that while, let's say, in law school or university of economics, outstanding practice is not enough for someone to be a professor at a university, it is enough at the University of Physical Education, at art universities it is enough. This, therefore, will degrade those excellent theoretical - and parentheses, practical - specialists who have acquired the scientific degree in addition to their otherwise excellent practical work. And one more thing, fellow Members. I would like to eliminate that misconception, without a degree in science, without a university teacher's appointment, that's what you can teach in any higher education institution, a titled professor's degree, or, let's say, a titled university professor's degree. Unfortunately, we are once again faced with personalised legislation and wish to appoint an otherwise excellent practical specialist as a rector, and to do so, we need to amend legislation. Don't do it, fellow Members. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-30-262	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, at the end of the debate, as a Member of the Parliament of Pécs, I cannot say a few things. I am from the city where we founded the first university, and it is still one of Hungary's most important university cities. I am not an educational politician, as my fellow Member Hiller, former Minister of Education, or as Mrs Dóra Dúró, so I will not be speaking in this regard, nor will I generate a professional debate. As an individual Member, a former member of the University of Pécs, I saw only the management of the University of Pécs, and I admit frankly that I hear it strangely when you say in this debate that there has been virtually a confusion over the past four years, a chaos to which today there is a means to remedy which you do not agree with. What I saw in 2010, my fellow Members, was that the Pécs University's expired supplier's debt was HUF 9 billion, today HUF 4.5 billion. In 2010, when, Mr President, you were the Minister of Education, the University of Pécs did not pay a HUF 9 billion bill, you did not pay entrepreneurs at the University of Pécs for HUF 9 billion. 33 Baranya entrepreneurs were included in this circle, 33 Baranya entrepreneurs did not receive their money because already in 2010, at your time, the University of Pécs had a huge debt. I understand the criticism now, but I just don't understand. I admire the former Minister, but I simply don't understand how you're coming to criticize a system when, in your time, the university had a much higher outflow, a much higher debt, without otherwise having an answer to this situation. There was only one government, the previous government that is now Regent, who decided in 2012 to give the university an extraordinary grant of HUF 4.5 billion in order to pay off local businesses. After all, as I mentioned, local entrepreneurs were included in the circle whose work was not evened out by the university. I see that in recent years, the university has also done a great deal to reduce this debt. But in order to completely disappear this still large, nearly five billion-dollar number, it is necessary for a well-designed system, a professional structure, and a transparent system to work. And the Chancellor's system will be a solution to that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-264	Thank you very much. Since the President does not take part in the debate, he says nothing but that it is next, Mr Szávay István, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-265	Thank you very much. I am sorry that the President is not taking part in this debate, because there are two things I would like to respond to. One was said by Congressman Hiller, but according to the new two-minute rules, we were a little behind on this. It was interesting to listen to my fellow Member's argument against the Chancellor's system, not necessarily because we would not have agreed with the majority of what he said, but I just remembered that the MSZP is now coming up with the same arguments against the Chancellor's system as the arguments which, by the way, were now formulated by the representatives of Fidesz, who pushed the Chancellor's system against the creation of economic councils. So the arguments are spookyly similar. These are interesting matches, my fellow Members. If you are in power, or virtually any of your parties are in power, both of them are trying to centralize you, and the opposition that is at the moment tells you what enormous dangers this is. In addition to the fact that the system of economic councils has practically failed, I would like to say this, and in this form it is doomed to the same failure, by the way, I believe, that this type of chancellor structure, which you want to push through here. The other thing I would like to respond briefly to is Congressman Pósan. Mr. Congressman, I am sorry, but it was quite funny when you responded here to the suggestion of my colleague Dóra Dúró, who challenged the requirement of appropriate qualifications here. This is Yehudi with Menuhin and the President of the World Bank. That would be perfectly fine if you were to appoint Yehudi Menuhin Chancellor of the Academy of Music, but we do not know this, not only because the illustrious artist died 15 years ago. Nor do we know that the President of the World Bank was asked to become Chancellor of the Corvinus. So obviously this is not the case and these are not the examples. These people will not be appointed Chancellor, they will be fallen politicians, members of the Fidesz Parliament, and, by the way, the government or the Fidesz faction, for strong people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] His different buddies. If it doesn't, time will deny it. For now, these are our fears about this. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-266	Thank you very much. Congressman István Ikotity is next, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-267	Thank you very much. This exceptional procedure, as this higher education salad has come before us, leaves us well behind, and in fact this is the main problem, which leaves a lot to be desired. However, with regard to the modifiers, which came before us at the last moment, and indeed, as has been said, the TAB was practically forced to read it on the spot with a break, so a number of interesting things came up. For example, this interesting feature that emerges in the context of the amendments is the proposal for higher education in the field of arts and sports sciences, with the possibility of being accepted instead of a doctorate in order to meet the conditions of qualification for employment. It's been mentioned before, they've mentioned a renowned federal captain or former head of state. The interesting question I'm asking is whether this couldn't work backwards. Can't we, say, convert a PhD to an honorary title for the national athlete? That'd be great, I guess a lot of people would live with that. It is virtually absurd for us to think that such a thing can come up or come out at all. Thank you.
u2014-06-30-268	Honourable Members, I don't see any more applications or applications. If you don't, and you don't - [[For signal:]] this was the present at the time when I started to write the sentence, but then Congressman Szávay came forward, so you have the floor against the faction time frame. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, I would like to comment on a specific matter. I have tabled an amendment to a request from a student municipality, by the way, but, of course, in agreement with this myself, this was not supported by the Legislative Committee against any other amendments. I would be infinitely obliged to the Secretary of State if he would respond with one or two sentences, if he were at all. This proposal was that the law defines the length of the academic year or semester in months, in a somewhat difficult way to understand and, in particular, difficult to manage for the institutions. [[21.30]] I proposed in this amendment that we not measure the academic year in months, and with this, obviously also the exam period, but in weeks, as is the case, according to practice, all the more so, because it is difficult to enter a year of school for exactly six months, and the exam periods are not adapted to this. Of course, we should have noticed this earlier, we didn't notice it, but now I noticed that the law is counting months, counting the school year in months. Both practice and rationality, as appropriate, require that we talk about weeks. In fact, I have also written in the explanatory memorandum that, where appropriate, some sort of from-to-institutions could be set, as in the previous system, for example, the length of examination periods in different higher education institutions was not entirely uniform. So I would be very interested to know why you continue to insist on a month-to-month period which is difficult to apply, and why you did not support our amendment, which would like to give a weekly breakdown of the semester and, as appropriate, the examination period. If I could get an answer to that, then I would probably be very happy, too, and those who have concerns about it would calm down. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-270	Congressman István Ikotity asked for the floor in two minutes. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-271	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to put the question to Mr Secretary of State in particular, and I hope that we will also be answered in the summary response. I would like to ask you about the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and how this body would be included in the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, which has already been mentioned, but now explicitly confirmed this issue. It is okay that the representative of HÖOK will be there, but why is it the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry that will be there, as there are 18 other chambers next to it. Why doesn't it get there, like, the medical or legal board, because they're involved in a major part of higher education? So it would really be worth taking them, and it is completely incomprehensible why this chamber is. I do not want to discuss the name and role of László Parragh in the main speaker, but why is this role so important and why is it distinguished in this way again? Thank you.
u2014-06-30-272	Dear Parliament, A number of Members have not applied for a statement, so the consolidated debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State of Retvári if he wishes to respond. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári nodds.]] Yes, you have the floor, please.
u2014-06-30-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you all for your contribution to the consolidated debate on this proposal. Some have actually built on professional funds, but the majority of my fellow Members seem to think that in the summer heat it was only the political aspect that determined their preparations in the last few weeks. After all, since 16 June they have been able to read this legislation on Parliament's website, so there was plenty of time to study it for everyone. But a little bit I saw someone wanting to see oligarchs everywhere, they just want to see the deviousness of the government everywhere, and not many people were wondering how universities, students, educators thought about it, they just wanted to shoot their own political logic, and in fact, at least one third of the speeches that we have heard here in the past. As far as the procedure is concerned, the comments on this matter, as I said, have, after all, had time to prepare for the discussion of this bill since 16 June, so there was plenty of preparation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: For the amendments?]] In the framework of the house rules, we are going on a regular schedule, not with a derogation from the house rules, but in a procedure agreed there, because obviously because of the end of the session, we had to speed up the last voting day here a little, and that is why we are here tonight in this debate, and therefore there will be no detailed debate today, and therefore the work of the Legislative Committee preceded the debate tonight. The fact that there is much to be done in this matter proves that, in many cases, we can see that universities are derecruiting, and because we can see that university management if it were perfect, then there would be no debts on the part of universities that would now amount to billions of dollars, including PPP investments that universities are rolling before themselves. If responsible farming had indeed been carried out and therefore such intervention was not necessary, such debts would not have been necessary. But if the state wants to protect public wealth with the care of a good farmer, and some of them are in universities, then it is indeed up to it to act in some way to protect public wealth more effectively and to prevent the debt of universities in some way. There is, of course, a socialist response that we have known for some time now, and they would introduce tuition fees, and they believe that this is how they can solve the problems of universities. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Who told you about this? I didn't say anything about that. That doesn't bother you, does it?]] This was what they could do as a novum in their own time of government. We would like to choose a different way, one that has already worked in many countries, and we trust that this will work in Hungary as well. This is not the chancellorship system, because it is a description of a constitutional arrangement, a form of government, but a system of chancellors, as many here have said, that we are legislating in Parliament, which is not so, but we are making laws, the law is taking place in the courts. Well, so this amendment, we're sure it will help universities. What really pulls the ground out of the arguments of opposition parties and puts them in a vacuum and their own arguments, and that is precisely the assessment of university leaders and student authorities. Those who are most within this system, one part of which, the student authorities themselves, asked for this amendment to be made as soon as possible, and the rectors said that even this system could work, there is no guarantee that it will be perfect, neither that it will be inadequate, but that it will be worth the test, that it will be worth trying whether the university's management will be better. Compared to this, what we have heard here from opposition representatives is neither deep nor close to them, based on their own political logic, they have made their own arguments, while we have really tried to coordinate with the actors. You have said, you have repeated here that this type of model, if not in this form, but in terms of its main principles, has been discussed on the round table of higher education a year or two ago, has often been discussed about this, many times. Of course, there is no negotiation that can't be done another month or two months or three months longer, but we felt that the time had come. Many times, we talked a lot about it, there was a lot of support behind it, and the concrete bill was seen several times by the leaders of the Rector's Conference, the heads of the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, and they did not object to it, and in many cases, as I said before, they supported it to be such a manager-like role in universities, which was a proven method in many other places, in other countries. We strive for universities to gain their autonomy by increasing their own income. In this we have made good progress over the past four years, because before our governance, there was HUF 238 billion in the private income of universities and colleges for higher education purposes, which increased to HUF 320 billion in 2013, which is a 34.5 percent increase. I believe that this is also an important step for the autonomy of universities if the proportion of these revenues is increasing and this government has achieved it. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to try to quit as policy makers - respect for the exception - from your role as party politicians, try to listen to the rectors, try to listen to the students, and if they say that this bill is indeed suitable for trying to make it better with regard to higher education, then support this proposal. If you do not want to hear the opinion of the rectors, the opinion of the students, or the opinion of government experts, then go against everyone who has expressed an opinion in this sphere and do not support this proposal on the basis of their own narrow political thinking, but I trust that by Friday they can still listen to those who operate it from the inside or see higher education as students from the inside, and that is why they said that this bill is worth trying. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now, that was the real demagogue, populist babble! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Come on, Gergő! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-274	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote shall take place on Friday 4 July, in accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rule. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on financial matters and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. [[21.40]] Mr Erik Bánki, Gábor Riz and Mr László Vécsey, Fidesz, Member of the Parliament's own motion T/264. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/264/3. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/264/5. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate is T/264/6. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, please.
u2014-06-30-275	Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The amendment of certain laws on financial matters is aimed at interpreting the law, simplifying the application of the law, achieving internal consistency between the laws and fulfilling the obligation to harmonise the laws of 2008/8. By transposing the provisions of the final pace of the Council Directive that will enter into force. The Legislative Committee is T/264. On 26 June 2014, the European Parliament adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. The amendment tabled by the Economic Committee, which closed the detailed debate, was received by our committee. The Commission has taken a separate decision on the proposal, with the exception of points 13 and 18, which is due to the fact that the amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee contain a similar content, but coherent, and a wholly appropriate proposal to the house rule. Accordingly, both opposition and pro-government representatives unanimously rejected these two points. The remaining points of the proposal were supported by 23 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. In addition to discussing the amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee proposed a further amendment, on which the members had a lengthy debate. The subject of the proposal triggering the debate is the point in the amendment which clearly states that the right to exercise the activity of organising gambling is free of VAT under a concession contract. In the committee it was confirmed that the reason for the proposal that, according to the practice of the EU Court of Justice, the award of a concession does not in itself constitute an economic activity on the basis of the VAT directive is therefore not covered. However, under the current rules, the activity of organising gambling is exempt from tax. If the related concession fee were included in the VAT scheme, in such a way that it could not be recovered, there would be hidden double taxation. Following the end of the debate, the Legislative Committee supported the amendment by 23 votes against and 8 votes against. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were put to your table by 23 yes and 7 no votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-30-276	Thank you very much. I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to. In that case, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says no. There will now be speeches by Members in the time frame on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a two-minute comment is not possible during the debate. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. Among those who asked for the normal word, Congressman Józsa first pressed the button. You have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the scandalous, semi-spoken amendment that many people find scandalous, to which neither the national nor the government representative of the locals could answer the question raised at the committee meeting on Thursday, why it should be exempt, leaving about one billion forints of taxes on gambling and casino concessions at Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima. When you place a direct tax on everything, your supporters of Andy Vajna, known to be in the ideal circle, will release a billion forints a year of VAT. This amendment is a teller, because there is a sentence in the concession agreement that does not clarify that this amount of concession payable, as it has now been promulgated by the Member, is net or gross, but has been carefully written about the presentation of the concession contract from the entrepreneurial side, that VAT will have to be paid in accordance with the applicable VAT legislation. Now, this certain VAT legislation was amended last Thursday, the unfortunate consequence of which, from a budget point of view, is that one billion tax payments are cancelled, and the lucky consequence on the part of the entrepreneurs is that one billion extra profits remain there. According to expert estimates, this is what my colleague Csaba Tóth said in his comment, these five casinos can produce 7-8 billion forints for the already mentioned successful entrepreneur Andy Vajna. Now you're gonna push that with a billion forints, which is not really understandable. So maybe you've just broken out some EU legislation, but it doesn't bother you when you're charging a special tax, targeted taxes, how many times you've got a tax on something you want to collect, and it seems you didn't want to collect it, somehow you've been lobbied by the concession winner Andy Vajna to keep this one billion extra. This doesn't look good, Congressman. So when everything is subordinated to the revenue side of the budget, when extra expenditure is made on one side, when we bring down the VAT on basic foods to Parliament in vain, they do not want to hear about it being taken down by the Hungarian Parliament from the brutal 27 per cent to at least 5 per cent, but there could also be food that is 0 VAT, so when food, which is essential, retains the brutal 27 per cent VAT, then they pry it out with some legal interpretation that it may not be necessary. This is only your political decision, which we, but we believe, is widely condemned by Hungarian society. So be consistent, if you want to tax, at least in an area of extra profit such as gambling, because it is where virtually without bidding, without being a real concession tender, you awarded these rights to two reliable candidates, to a reliable operator, giving them brutal profits. And the usual 27-percent tax due to the state, which everyone else pays... - there is such a saying in the common language that sales tax is a tax on the poor, because the poor man is much more affected than the wealthy, and you are now ignoring the 27-percent payment of VAT than the wealthiest income of the richest people. We believe that this abuse of rights will bring excessive and unfavorable benefits to the beneficiaries, strictly on political grounds, because they are your friends. This amendment is, in the opinion of the MSZP, a flawed and deeply reprehensible amendment. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-30-278	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go. [[21.50]]
u2014-06-30-279	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Only so that those who may be monitoring the meeting know what we object to in this very law. Indeed, there was a rather scandalous committee meeting where, at first, no one wanted to take on who submitted this so-called VAT exemption, and then we received vague justifications from Mr Balla about frequency charges and everything else. Then it turned out - just to let the students know - that this law provides that the VAT law is 86. Paragraph 1 (1) (i) is replaced by the following: "It is exempt from the tax to provide a gambling service covered by the Law on the Organisation of Gambling, including the mediation thereof, and to grant the State the right to exercise the activity of organising gambling through a concession contract. " That would be the release of VAT in a lot of other cases. Cut! We know that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has only been fighting for it for four years, presenting a number of legislative proposals, making a number of suggestions to finally help people who are not exactly the most prosperous in Hungary. and this is a uniquely high 27 percent VAT reduction in Europe to at least 20 percent. All of you - all of you! - these proposals have been rejected. We have also proposed that, in the case of basic foods, meat, milk, bread, and we could list VAT to 5%, at least with this help. You voted against that, too. We have heard from Gabriella Selmeczi in the House today how important it is to raise children, how important it is to help families with children. But when my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, makes proposals every two weeks to help families and at least bring down the VAT on the various services and products associated with child rearing to 5%, you have all voted off. When we suggested that we take down VAT at BKV in Budapest, VAT on BKV tickets and rents to 5%, and this saved money should not be spent on anything other than to reduce ticket and rent prices, you voted off. But when it's really about Andy Vajna and Gábor Sima, then you're just one pen stroke, with one bill like this, telling him to be VAT-free. Why do you need it? Why do you have to do this? You think people don't notice that, by the way? Do they not realize how much discount you - the next item on the agenda - will be on remote gambling for people who are supposedly going to make huge fortunes - even more so because you have been " crippled " - will you take the money from those you are protecting? After all, if we remember, when the gambling law was changed in the previous cycle, we could always hear that the poor, fallen people who have been throwing their money into the slot machines must be protected and protected by you. Now, when friends take that profit, they don't need to be protected! By then you can grant a VAT exemption, then you can bring down the concession fees, then you can bring down the toy tax, and we can list everything else! It was not enough that the law, which was now reversed, was presented, and that we would negotiate at the next item on the agenda, and they gave friends a lot of discounts, they still caught it, and they also brought it in to make it VAT-free. I think this is outrageous. I ask you not to give such discounts to people who work in the gambling industry. Instead, give discounts to people who work honestly and are slowly getting less money for food, give them to those who are trying to raise children, and give them more and more difficulty raising children, or give them, say, to families who want to go to a beach or go to the zoo in the summer, and pay 27 percent of the VAT for the ticket. Why don't you give them discounts? Why billionaires or people with hundreds of millions of forints? Because these people are in your best interest, your friends, and who knows what kind of backup mergers there are? You have not been put into Parliament to fill the pockets of these people, but to help citizens living in Hungary, many of whom have voted for you, which is why they are in Parliament. Try to give them the best possible conditions to live as much as possible in this country. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not support any law where they give such discounts to gambling people. In fact, we want there to be tightening-ups in this area. I ask you to withdraw this law because it is outrageous! At least withdraw VAT exemption from concession fees! Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from your better benches.]]
u2014-06-30-280	Thank you very much. This is Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur of the Legislative Committee has been very brazenly overstepping a series of events which, I think, should have been highlighted if he had already analysed the opinion of the committee and presented them at the plenary session of Parliament. This was because, in this proposal, my fellow Member Tukacs and others asked why the legislative committee wanted to submit this proposal, because what we are talking about is the motion of the Legislative Committee itself. What happened was that the secretary of state representing the government said that he couldn't and didn't really want to answer that. We resented this and asked my fellow Members to at least one of the members of the Legislative Committee to tell us why this proposal should be submitted. We have not found a single Member who would have been willing or able to answer that question. I think you too feel the picantria of the fact that the Legislative Committee is submitting a proposal that deprives the Hungarian budget of billions of forints of tax revenue, and there is no Member among these authors who can tell us why this proposal should be submitted. To your honor, the vice-president has taken a break so that it can be studied and looked into why we want to present this proposal. Then the Secretary of State returned to his seat and said that he did not want to answer what this proposal was and why he wished to submit it. At that time Congressman Balla took the paper that the committee staff had put in front of him and read a rather interesting explanation. He said that in relation to media frequency auctions, a European Council decision was taken, I think, and then a court decision, in which it was described that after that, since it is not a commercial activity, there is no need to pay VAT. And it follows that there is no need to pay VAT on gambling. Ladies and gentlemen, the absurdity of this, I say, can you feel it? At that time, we asked the chairman, Congressman Balla, to draw a parallel between the two, some causal link. It seems to me that these two things have so much to do with each other that, I don't know, it's a rule that we have to say this speech standing in Parliament, so, let's say, we would make it mandatory for a movie screening to stand up in front of it. Because, and I am asking the same question now, fellow Members, what does one have to do with the other. It would be nice if someone tried to answer that. I may have difficulty imagining what it is, but I will be interested in hearing the opinion of the Secretary of State or one of my fellow Members who will enlighten us about it. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking again about what Congressman Józsa said, but Mr Szilágyi also referred to this. They have a political agenda. This political intention is that the entrepreneurial circle close to you, who is obviously going to return something to you in the Fidesz register with these funds, although I do not want to accuse anyone of this. [[András Tállai: Still! But still!]] Because in the end, as usual, the opposition representative will have a problem with this, but I can tell you that this political motivation is pretty much what it is. And they've been looking for something completely twisted, stupid, and that's what they're trying to get us to swallow here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a lot of stupid things in this House, but not so much! Thank you very much. [[22.00]]
u2014-06-30-282	Honourable Members, I'm going to ask if anyone wants to use their speaking power. [[No one's reporting.]] No. This debate is closed. [[Sallai R. Benedek: I try to push, but it doesn't work!]] You should have checked in earlier. I will ask the authors if any of them wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Dear Parliament, Decisions are expected to take place on Friday 4 July. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports to the bill on the amendment of certain laws in relation to sports betting and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Erik Bánki, Péter Cseresnyés and László Vécsey, Fidesz, Member of the Parliament's own motion T/265. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/265/3. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/265/5. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate is T/265/6. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-283	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 26 June 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/265. of the European Parliament and of the Council. As is well known, the gaming market has become increasingly open to online games, but the current Hungarian legislation does not make Hungarian appearance attractive to market participants with significant customer base and experience abroad. The aim of the proposal is to exploit this market gap and increase public revenue. We discussed the amendment to the proposal, which closed the detailed debate submitted by the Economic Committee. The amendments were essentially aimed at the technical implementation of the legislative need raised, its coherence with other legislation and its alignment from a budgetary point of view, to which several comments were formulated. Finally, the amendments were supported by the Legislative Committee with 22 yes, 7 no and 1 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on this proposal, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to amend further in order to ensure a uniform application of the law, which was tabled without discussion as 23 yes, three no and four abstentions. The Committee adopted the summary report with 26 yes and 6 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-284	Thank you very much. I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Not now, that's the signal I'm getting. Consequently, we are moving forward. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. The designated Economic Committee did not wish to set up a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-285	It was just the push of the previous button. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'm just gonna say what I just wanted to say because I'm a stubborn kid. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: I can't!]] On the previous item, too, I wanted to mention that this Parliament is beautiful, and when I come to the entrance, I always see these statues up there. I think the reason Parliament has the wrong structure is that it does not have to go through with the pro-government representatives, because these statues can be there - a shoemaker, a salesman, a blacksmith, a carpenter - so that Members of Parliament do not forget why they came to this Parliament and who they should represent. The statues are out here, they're a little high, but if they look up, they'll see. With these legislative amendments and these proposals, they will completely forget these people, who should be represented, even if they have put these statues in the corridor. It's a matter of values. I have done a self-retention exercise in amending the education legislation so that I do not get involved in everything, but I have seen the same crisis of values there. At the University of Pécs, Congressman Csizi already spoke about how much he is indebted to the University of Pécs. It doesn't matter what kind of graduates come out, it doesn't matter what quality they have, how they can work, what they have on the labour market, but it is entirely that they have this much debt or that much, and if they are less, they have done better. This set of values is also reflected in these legislative modification proposals, which is completely incomprehensible. We're sitting here two weeks after the media law of the RTL Club, when we've been listening to it for a long time, arguing about how important tax revenues are, we've heard how much small settlements care about this little money, and now we're giving up tax forints, one after the other. We will do this by reducing VAT, and we will do it by negotiating this legislation, which will certainly be accepted by the pro-government majority with a strong voice. Let us not forget that this is once again a tax reduction that is not favourable to a man, a small man, who makes up the majority of society. It doesn't favor the shoemakers on the statues here, the blacksmiths, the carpenters, any of them. This is in favour of the interests of a narrow layer, and most of all, tax cuts for a group that does not need this. I don't know where such legislation is in the world or where it works, I don't know so much about the parliaments of the world, how they used to determine the rate of tax, that there was so much, I reduced it to half; so that there is no impact assessment, there is no research to support why we are reducing it so much. What is the measure by which we define it that way? The support of these is what is most lacking. So I do not agree - while the regions of Hungary are among the most disadvantaged regions in Europe - that such things are being negotiated by Parliament, but if they are already being discussed, why is there no reasonable presentation of the basis on which these rates have been established, exactly why they have been established in this way. And if it is possible to collect tax forints at some level, then I do not consider the mention of this replacement education to be elegant all the time; because it is very, very repulsive to me that we want to collect tax forints in the context of a tax change - in support of virtually a civil society organisation - to say that we give it to a civil organisation, and it is not elegant to be represented by Members of Parliament who are involved in this leadership. It would be good for Parliament to make such proposals more prepared and competent and not to support the sector that is least in need. A week ago, we agreed to this in detail, we talked about it in detail, I don't want to repeat myself and the same, the same arguments would still stand now that it doesn't feel well-founded, it doesn't feel that it really serves the purpose of making life better in the country. It would be good if we didn't have to talk about it, try to maintain the tax rate and collect it. The basis of the current tax-modifying proposal is that it has not been possible to recover the tax and it has not been possible to collect tax, it has been bad implementation, it has been wrong for the person who should have collected the tax, could not do anything with his executive powers, and could not achieve this. Now we do not see any guarantee that, after this reduction, someone will be able to do so, or they will be able to do so now. This is a legislative modification proposal without guarantees, without impact assessments, without adequate estimates, which is certainly not supported in the absence of any justification. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-286	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, has applied for a statement. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-30-287	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I also have to start this debate with the words of John Lazarus, and we talked about it in the general debate: " We are just like that, fidesz and Christian democrats, that we believe in a world where gambling is not right. " This was said by János Lázár; it is true that in 2012, but it seems that the world has changed since then, as we have just heard that VAT reductions, and even after the general debate, here in the summary report, the benefits of gambling organizers remained in the vast majority of the tele gamblers that we cannot support, since we want to keep the strict rules that they were in principle. I feel like what you're doing is a little incomprehensible. In the last year, nothing has been done to try to get those large foreign sites and websites to pay concessions in Hungary, but to pay a toy tax. [[22.10]] It also shows that if you'd gone up, let's say, two weeks ago, the Gambling Company. On your website, you would have seen that it was written that the following companies in connection with the illicit gambling organization were the ones that would be banned, a colon, and only one company was not on it. So they haven't tried to do this in the last year. Now the news is they're gonna find something like this, because five pages of Gambling Corp. named, they said that these sports betting sites would receive a deadline by 15 July, in the event that they would sit down with the State within this deadline and try to conclude a concession contract, it would be okay, if not, to call on Internet service providers to block these sites. I will look forward to the results of this, how technically it will be possible, how they will solve it, how successful it will be - but this should have started! We should have started trying to block, say, these pages; we should have started trying to force these companies that operate remote gambling sites to enter into contracts with the state, to pay taxes, and so on. It wouldn't have been the first step to take it down to half; that the toy tax - good, now I don't know why, but it looks like it was the only one you listened to - you wanted to take it down to 10% from 20% of pure gambling revenues, now you put it in an intermediate state of 15 percent. But the subscribed capital was taken from 200 million to 50 million forints. Now, with the amendments, we can only find clarification as to how foreign companies are to be counted in foreign currency and that they are to be present in foreign currency. The same two weeks' tax pay for a month, and everything else remains. So you guys first gave me a break, and then you try to squeeze these gambling sites into it. I also said in the general debate: it is not up to that. So I think you guys just threw a lot of money out the window. It does not depend on whether these companies pay taxes in Hungary, whether these companies are trying to operate legally in Hungary, whether their subscribed capital is now 50 million forints or 200 million forints. These companies do not have a problem with having a subscribed capital of $200 million. These companies wouldn't have had a problem paying 20 percent. If they could force them to do it, they would have paid 20% for the toy tax, and if they couldn't force it to do it, they couldn't pay 3 percent, they wouldn't pay a penny for this country. They do things the other way around that should be logically done. Of course, you understand why they do this, they did it for the same reason that VAT was released at concession fees, because certain interests, certain groups of lobbyists have told you so, and they have demanded that of you. And you guys are gonna make these demands without a word of it. Those lobby groups reached the point that it doesn't matter whether the unfortunate fates are at home, whether they spend their money on the Internet, because the problem was that they said that they were spending their money in the tavern, that poor, unfortunate fates would spend the money there, if they were already spending it with their own friends, and that money, the money of the unfortunate people, wouldn't matter; then there would be no gambling, then these people wouldn't be sick, they would be able to spend the money, and they could spend the money of the family. It's the truth. By the way, a Hungarian market was destroyed at the time, and the gambling market was completely dominated by Hungarian companies at the time, which you destroyed. Now they're giving the foreigners different discounts. Do you think that's a normal attitude? Because not in my opinion. And you can be offended by that, you can say that the opposition criticizes everything, but, once again, you should not give discounts to various gambling moguls. And you can call them whatever they want; and these people can do you any favor you want, build teams, run casinos, give them the casinos that work well in the state concession and run by the state to make more money, sooner or later people will open their eyes. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-06-30-288	Thank you very much. Mr László Kiss is next, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-289	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There are bad gamblers. These bad gambling organizers are so corrupt, evil people who force poor Hungarians to beat their last penny on slot machines, and these bad gambling organizers were struck by the government fist and eliminated by these businesses, to the great glory of all of us. And there are good gambling organizers, these are those who may have a little offshore background, they may not even be Hungarian businesses, but in any case they may be jovial gentlemen, they may have an advantage in the past of foreign producers, young wives, or if their names start with A and continue with ndy Vajna. So there are many such things that tell us that if you want to find a good gambler in this country. The same spirit of this proposal is evident in the context of taxation, as there are people who are very fond of paying taxes, and they also like to pay off 15-20 thousand forints from their gross HUF 150,000. And some people obviously don't like this tax so much, they don't want to pay a billion forints in the Hungarian register. And since we are a rich state, we can afford to allow those who disposal over very significant resources in this country not to have to pay taxes, while others are obviously willing to put in their 15-20 thousand forints a month on the basis of favors. Similarly, when we look at the proposal, what we see - this has already been said with a good number of speakers before me - is that the proposal is releasing funds and tax revenues from systems, companies that would otherwise have a good amount to pay. If we look at the reason for this, we can see that no substantial payments or substantial payments have been made in connection with online gambling. If we look at an average municipality and see that the effectiveness of the levying of a local tax is low, then obviously there is no problem with the fact that the levying of a tax is inappropriate, there may be a problem with collection. If we are talking about low tax revenues for a business, we can think of a) a) the tax pressure of this business, and it cannot spend a significant amount of resources, it cannot pay a significant amount of taxes, or b) the efficiency of tax collection is not good. I leave it to everyone's imagination to see which one happens in the online gambling market. Is it possible that bled, poor, online gambling companies in the grip of government austerity are unable to pay taxes, or that it is not a good system, as the government imagines at the moment, that they would like to obtain this source? I think it doesn't have to be too much of a fantasy about which is real. The Socialist Party believes that taxes levied should be collected and collected at all times. That if we collect it from the simple teacher, if we collect it from the simple working man, we also collect it from companies that have gained significant revenues in the online gambling market. We see it as a very big mistake in the proposal to open the door for companies with uncertain backgrounds to enter Hungary, if you like, to access the market, which are very often accused of having offshore backgrounds. We know that the government is ambivalent about this issue, because there was already today a question from the Socialist Party as to when the Foreign Minister Fidesz from the offshore background would resign. We're talking about another offshore proposal. I wonder if this is gonna end. I think that this is what my fellow Member Szilágyi was talking about. The proposal says that the toy tax would be 10 percent of the pure toy revenue compared to the 20 percent previously planned. [[22.20]] When the speakers before me are talking about whether exact calculations have established this, we know that this is a naive question or a false question, if you like, by turning to my fellow Member, because we know that we do not know such calculations. Why 10? It might as well be 5%, or it could be 15 percent. It is an interesting initiative, of course, that if we cannot collect a tax, we should reduce the rate by rewarding those who do not pay it. But the question is, in this case, if the ordinary citizen didn't pay the tax, if everyone, the simple teacher, the worker, the farmer, didn't pay the tax, would the government's answer whether it was okay, we would reduce it to half or even let it go. I don't think that's the answer. Finally, I think it is very appropriate to ask the question that has been put before me about the way someone gets to Parliament. To go through the meeting room in the Lower House is an experience for everyone, as you can see the reality of the Hungarian dualism, the statues about the Hungarian everyday life at that time. I think, however, honourable Members, that you have chosen a different path to Parliament, the upper-house sitting room, where you see a different type of Hungarian reality. I believe that this Hungarian reality, on the other hand, does not meet the majority, our reality. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-06-30-290	Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2014-06-30-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are waiting for them to speak on the other side anyway, so I would like to say one more thing that we do not agree with at all, and that is to say in the law that the gaming tax on bookie bets, sports betting, totoo and remote gambling must be used to support football through the Hungarian Football Association. First of all, we can always hear about Hungarian football, so that replacements, replacements, and replacements must be used for children of age; this is not written here. In order to use it to support Hungarian football, it is also possible for you to understand that the support of Hungarian football is given to one of the leading MLSZ officials, which is also the support of Hungarian football. Here again the question arises why, in this system, in your system of friends, they wish to spend these funds through MLSZ, why these funds go to the Hungarian Football Association. Well, because there we also found a great name known in economic circles in Hungary, who is currently the president of the Hungarian Football Association. In all likelihood, they also play a part in this. But I would add that every single forint in this state, in which the Hungarian football is in its condition, and in which the Hungarian Football Association holds this football - the Hungarian Football Association, which has not been able to produce any product for more than twenty years, yet certain officials live well - we are such organizations, as long as there is no renewal in the Hungarian Football Association, we do not want to give them a penny, above all, not by taking money from people with a difficult fate, let us say, through various gambling, in order to pay, say, MLSZ employees, because it is also in this law that they can be paid. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-06-30-292	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would have asked the authors, but before I asked, one of the authors, Mr Bánki Erik, had already indicated his wish to react. There you go. You have ten minutes tops. You have the floor.
u2014-06-30-293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm warning you, I don't want to take the ten minutes. And I would like to share one more important piece of information with everyone: Germany-Algeria 0:0 in the 8th final of the World Championship, just to talk about important things. I would like to respond briefly to what has been said in the debate, aside from the joke, Mr President, because, as has been said several times in the general debate, my fellow opposition Members are probably deliberately, but also misinterpreting the intentions and spirit of the bill, so I think it would be good to give a summary assessment again. Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, spoke about a crisis of values. I don't really understand, because what you didn't explain about the negotiation of this bill is what the value crisis is, but I assume that you're thinking of what several opposition representatives have also said, that the government's position is basically anti-gaming, and now you're saying about the negotiation of this bill by changing the government's position, and now you're pro-gaming. I also said in the general debate that the government's position has not changed, that the government's position remains anti-gaming, but here we are talking about an area of gambling organisation - an online betting area - where there is no possibility for the government to prohibit this type of gambling. Congressman Szilágyi is absolutely right that there could have been effective action against illegal organizers earlier - that is what I think, too, that it could have been done by the way, and we are now thanking God that this is already working - but it is not possible for the Hungarian State to ban someone from Hungary on foreign portals, an otherwise officially operating gaming organisation. So it's not about taking money from poor people, and with this bill, we're going to get poor people to spend their forints on gambling and bookie bets in Hungary and take it away from their families, it's simply not true. There are people involved in these gambling games who have already played, and what we would like to do with this bill is not to play this money on foreign portals, and those governments are to collect this tax, but to make these bets on the Hungarian portals, and to pay taxes on this activity. Thus, the government's position has not changed, and no more will be playing such online bets at all when this bill is adopted. How did we determine the rate? The rate was set on the basis of international practice. I have to say, as we said in the general debate, that we will respond positively to all the proposals aimed at improving the substance of the bill. Mr Szilágyi has also mentioned that this is reflected in the increase in the rate of tax, yes, we have increased the tax rate by 50 percent. And one more thing has escaped my fellow Members' attention: we have increased the concession fee by 100 percent, because this has also been said in the general debate that we have set the standard too low. The whole intention, i.e. the development of discount systems, was based on European practice, because the market currently regulated by legislation adopted a year ago does not work in Hungary. So it is not that we want to open a new area for foreign companies, a career where they have not been able to play; they could only play on terms that were not acceptable to them, and the consequence was that there was no substantial tax revenue in this area, although - as I say again - Hungarian people have already made bets on foreign portals in this area and have won money or just lost. Mr Szilágyi said that the multinationals should have been persuaded to play a role in the Hungarian market under previous regulations. Yeah, maybe we should have made them do it, but we couldn't. They were not motivated by the legal environment so far to do so, they did not set up a subsidiary in Hungary, as the laws would have required; what is the reason for this, I cannot say, the practice justifies this. Once again, we have looked at international examples, and apparently there is no requirement in Denmark, France or Spain, for example, that they can only take part in the market with subsidiary companies. So you can take part in the market as a foreign company, but there is no risk of what has also been said in this debate that we would open the field to offshore companies, because it is unthinkable under today's legislation that the government would otherwise conclude any contract with companies with unclear backgrounds. In this case, under the legislation, it is the Minister of National Economy who can conclude this concession contract, and he has an obligation under the current legislation to examine the background of these companies, so he cannot conclude a concession contract with an offshore company under today's laws. So, overall, I think that this legislation serves the purpose of opening up the market more, to ensure that the taxes that have been incurred in foreign countries are now coming down in Hungary, and to ensure that if this tax revenue is already realised in the Hungarian budget, it serves sports purposes. I think that with these amendments this bill is acceptable. This bill can achieve the goals that we have set at the time of the submission. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support it in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[22.30]]
u2014-06-30-294	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Decisions are expected to take place on Friday 4 July. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the development of a system of institutions to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The submission was made in T/262. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee on a detailed debate as a designated committee T/262/3. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/262/5. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/262/6. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-295	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. At its meeting on 26 June 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the further development of an institution system to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system, T/262. Bill No. 1. As a response to the crisis, the bill provides for resolution rules for Hungarian financial institutions on the basis of an EU directive designed to tackle financial difficulties in a new way. On the basis of the EU Guidelines, the proposal is aimed at developing a more precise and forward-looking regulation to address the situation of banks in distress and other financial institutions in such a way that, in order to preserve financial stability, it allows the restructuring of failing financial institutions under official constraints. With the established resolution fund, the main policy of the regulation is to strengthen ownership and creditors' obligations when settling the situation of a financial institution in difficulty rather than the burden on taxpayers. At the meeting of the Committee, the members held a lengthy debate on the amendment tabled by the Economic Committee to the bill, in particular in terms of legal, linguistic and codification, which was adopted by 23 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention. In addition to discussing the amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee proposed another codification amendment, which was tabled by 23 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention. The Committee also adopted the summary report by 23 votes to seven, with one abstention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-06-30-296	Thank you very much. Mr Tallai State Secretary has indicated that he does not wish to speak now. The designated Economic Committee does not wish to present a rapporteur, so now, Honourable Parliament, the Members of Parliament will be speaking in the time frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Member, István Józsa, who has applied in advance in writing. Congressman, please.
u2014-06-30-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is interesting that the original author of the proposal, Mr Manninger, is not present, and who has said the opinion of the TAB, Mr Szűcs has also left the room urgently. It's like it's telling you how important this is to you. Although it is indeed a very important presentation, and it would have been appropriate for the government to bring this to Parliament, because it is a bill drawn up in the context of European legislative harmonisation and economic governance. At some point in 2011, this initiative will go back to the six points of the Hungarian EU Presidency, so that banks can have a resolution system that can provide guarantees, in the event of an undesirable crisis, that not only those involved in the financial system are dependent on the government, but also a resolution fund for themselves. This is, of course, a positive reading that, as a result of the financial crisis in 2008-2009, in the European Union that you have criticised a great deal, which, in your opinion, is going wrong towards greater integration, provides such organizational and financial assistance or provides the possibility for banks that may be in trouble. This positive reading is that there is indeed such an intention to harmonise EU legislation. At the same time, there is a simpler reading of this, which is closer to what we have already explained, the one-billion-dollar release of VAT to friends who have received a concession in gambling, that you will establish a bank resolution fund that will be paid to the banks in Hungary, which you have declared independent, but the National Bank, which you have provided by your former Minister for Economic Affairs, will judge who financial institutions need help. It is not unthinkable that these small financial institutions will be among those which, that they are not, are more important for the government to be helped. So your practice, in which the constant rule is that they always make an exception to themselves, raises that thought. [[András Tállai: General debate?]] In the case of bank resolution, it is possible that first those banks will receive assistance, of course on an absolute professional basis, and that the National Bank is considered to be objective by you, in fact nothing precludes the subjective decision... - the banks that are nicer to your interests. It cannot be ignored that such a motion of representation, which is very unusual, is that on a European harmonisation issue, a fidesz representative wakes up... [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: The author of the government!]] Is this the government now? [[András Tállai: The Government!]] I'm so happy for you. I am pleased that the needle exchange was made possible before I complimented Congressman Manninger on his performance. I am very pleased that the government has taken this amendment in its own name, but, to say the least, the little devil works there. If you submit a bill for stability, whose stability do you mean? For those of you who really pull a lot and do a lot for the mediation system, or who, in some ways, might be nicer to you. It is, of course, very good for the parliamentary debate if Parliament discusses such far-reaching laws, not in one night, divided into several days. So I would like to ask you, there is little chance for this extraordinary summer session, but by autumn these proposals should be put forward in such a way that we can discuss them in a more man-made time, and not in the context of such amendments, which seems to be ex post absolution, of course, only to the external opposition Member, because in fact this proposal is probably part of the thoughtful and responsible government work. In any case, I would like to conclude by asking the government for responsible work on these issues as well. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-06-30-298	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] Thank you very much, you don't want to. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. [[22.40]] I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to react. [[András Tállai says no.]] He says he doesn't want to respond. Dear Parliament, Decisions are expected to take place on Friday 4 July. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports to the bill on the amendment of individual laws in the context of government restructuring and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The submission was made in T/263. You can access it on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Judicial Committee as designated committee on the detailed debate T/263/4. was given to them. T/263/6. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate is T/263/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. First, I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-299	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 26 June 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed T/263 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to government restructuring. Bill No. 1. This proposal was submitted with the aim of ensuring consistency between laws. In view of the requirements imposed by the proposal adopted on 26 May 2014, the Government has exercised its freedom guaranteed by the Fundamental Law and has established a regulation governing the tasks and powers of its members. During the committee meeting, the members held a lengthy debate on the amendment proposed by the Judicial Committee, which was supported by our committee with 23 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour and 1 abstention. In addition to the resolution on the amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee has expressed an intention to amend further. In view of the fact that the title of the law in paragraph 7 of the proposal was written, the members voted separately on this point, which was supported with 23 yes, 3 non-voting and 3 abstentions, while the other amendments were submitted by the Committee as an amendment summing up 23 yes, 6 with no vote and 1 abstention. The Committee adopted the summary report with 23 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-30-300	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Congressman, you have seven minutes tops. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-301	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What my colleague, who presented the majority opinion, summarized by having a long debate on the proposal, I would like to open a little bit more. There were basically three topics in the debate. One was about how the legislative procedure was done and the other two were about content. On the legislative method, Imre Vas and I were practically engaged in a relatively longer discussion, who suggested why my fellow Members and fellow opposition Members did not address the proposal in sufficient depth at the meeting of the Justice Committee, why they wanted to vote on it together, and why they wanted to do it so quickly. Then I informed my fellow Member, who should not have done so, namely, because he was sitting there at the Justice Committee, that the reason why my fellow Members did not give a more detailed opinion was that they received 28 pages of legislative amendments in the on-the-spot allocation at the committee meeting... [[For signal:]] I am sorry, my fellow Member, who has been present, who will certainly talk more about this - 29 pages of legislative amendments. I think, however, that we certainly know, and this is almost proverbial here in Parliament, that my fellow Member Imre Vas is able to see through an amendment of this size in five minutes, but there is no representative in this Parliament, besides him, who would have such abilities. Well, that's why they didn't talk to the debate, so they couldn't give an opinion. I have explained my position, and many have agreed on this, that the Member must first be given the opportunity, in accordance with house rules and in the view of the Constitutional Court, to make a substantive contribution to the bill, to know it in substance and in good time, and to prepare for Parliament's debate. This has not happened, but this will be discussed in more detail by my fellow Member. I also mentioned that it is also a matter for Members of Parliament to take part in Parliament's debate in plenary. In the general debate of this bill, the pro-government representatives practically boycotted the parliamentary debate and did not speak in it. As regards the comments on content and the content debate, opposition representatives were pleased to confirm that, although in very few places and very low depth, the powers of the Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office were reduced compared to the original proposal. In the area of historic protection, the criticisms of opposition representatives may have been considered in particular, but they were in the agricultural, rural development and more smaller areas, where powers were removed from the Prime Minister's office compared to the previous proposal by adopting the amendment proposal or, as appropriate, by the final vote. With regard to these amendments, opposition representatives expressed their joy. However, there was one subject, and this was the third round that the debate was on, the second substantive debate on substance, concerning the virtual severance of government officials. Here, the Secretary of State gave me an explanation, an interesting explanation for me. It is now possible, perhaps, to give our opinion on this in the parliamentary debate, and above all, in the group contributions. We asked them if they thought it was a brazen severance package. Secretary of State assured us that they didn't consider it a brazen severance. Why, it was hard for me to understand, because it's also about giving leave to politicians. This is also given to government officials after they resigned from that post. And we asked ourselves, we didn't really get a response, that if teachers, miners and representatives of a number of professions, which are very far from politics, were hit by a 98 percent tax on government officials who will receive their severance pay in millions of HUF. Mr Secretary of State said that there is practically no government official who will be able to make this proposal. There are two problems with this, and I think one of them is why the hell should such a law be made, especially with retroactive effect - that is, because this is also the case - and if they do, why not pay 98 percent? Mr State Secretary referred to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was indeed about the fact that a 98-percent tax could not be levied with retroactive effect. At least that's what I remember Mr. Secretary talking about. However, I think that if you had thought seriously that such revenue should be taxed to this extent, you would have allowed all future payments of this kind to be subject to a 98 per cent special tax. This will be subject to a 75 percent special tax, i.e. translated: while you have taken 98 percent from teachers and miners, you will now only take 75 percent from future government officials under their taxes, i.e. 25 percent from the 2 million HUF section. Dear Parliament, I don't want to go any further, because that would be my own opinion, which wasn't said in the debate. This is what happened at the Legislative Committee meeting, and on this basis opposition representatives did not support the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[22.50]]
u2014-06-30-302	Thank you very much. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Répássy if he wants to speak now. [[Dr. Répássy Robert nodds.]] I would like to remind you that you have 10 minutes with a possible closure, please.
u2014-06-30-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only asked for the floor - briefly - to clarify the 98 percent tax issue. Congressman Barondy misquoted my words on the committee. I did not say that this tax could not be levied retroactively, but that the Constitutional Court annulled the tax law containing the rate of 98 per cent, and did so retroactively, so the government found itself not to have such a tax burden on the special benefit in the event of termination of the legal relationship. Therefore, with a legislative amendment at the end of last year, the National Assembly introduced 75 percent tax, so at the moment 75 percent tax is charged on the so-called special benefit, which is granted for the termination of the legal relationship. So these amounts may also be paid to the government commissioners for the part above HUF 2 million are charged with a special tax of 75%. And I also spoke at the committee meeting about the fact that it does not affect any of the government commissioners, at least I said that I have no knowledge that it would affect them. Because of the fact that, among the government commissioners, those who have obtained the mandate of parliamentary representatives have terminated their legal relationship by common accord, and are not subject to any special allowance, but they are entitled to a tribute fee from practically the next day following the termination of the joint agreement, so there is no period that would result in a special benefit. Similarly, in the case of those who receive a new mandate for government office, the law says or does not say so, but the legal relationship should be considered to be virtually continuous; therefore, no special allowance is paid for them, but for the period between the new term of office of government and the previous term of office, for the days on which they will be paid only their original salary, their original salary. This is also the case in the case of state leaders, so if a State Secretary or Minister is re-appointed as a state manager after the termination of the relationship, then he is not entitled to a special allowance, but only receives a fraction of the salary for the transitional period. So I still believe and maintain this statement that neither in a moral nor in a legal sense is the situation referred to by opposition representatives in the committee that we are talking about some kind of special allowance for politicians. That is undoubtedly true, you can ask why this regulation is now needed. The congressman also asked that question. Because it is practically not regulated, there is no valid regulation on the extent to which, in the event of the termination of the legal relationship of a government agent, it is entitled to what benefits. This fills a legal deficiency, but we have taken care of it, and our wallet, the government, would not support a proposal that would justify a six-month or even less special allowance for the government commissioners. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor.
u2014-06-30-304	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur of the Judicial Committee will now take part in the speech and the presentation of minority opinions within a total of 6 minutes, with three minutes of which to give minority opinions. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the rapporteur of the committee, please.
u2014-06-30-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee is T/263 on the amendment of individual laws in the context of government restructuring. On 24 June 2014, the Commission held a detailed debate on the legislative proposal No. At the first stage of the debate, with 8 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, the Committee took the view that the bill complied with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, was compatible with the legal system, complied with the obligations arising from international law and EU law and complied with the professional requirements of legislation. In the second stage of the debate, the Committee assessed the provisions of Article 263/2. Amendment No 42 submitted and subject to the provisions of house rules. Paragraph (b) of the Act decided not to comply with the house rules because of so-called internal overgrowth. The committee then presented this 29-point amendment, mentioned by my fellow Member Bárándy. It is true that the proposal was distributed at the beginning of the committee meeting, but President Rubovszky offered the opposition representatives a reading break, who did not want to take advantage of the opportunity, and despite the explicit proposal of opposition representatives, the Committee discussed and took a stand on 29 points of the amending proposal individually. So in relation to what my fellow Member Bárándy has said, as I said in the Legislative Committee, opposition representatives have specifically asked that we discuss it at the same time, because they do not wish to get to know this amendment in detail. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: They don't know! The two words are different. They don't know!]] The president was asked to vote in one vote, but we went through it separately, point by point. The Parliament's Committee on Justice closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 24 June. Thank you for listening.
u2014-06-30-306	Thank you very much. Minority opinions will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó. You have three minutes tops, please.
u2014-06-30-307	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, opposition members of the Judicial Committee did not support the submission of an amendment closing the detailed debate. That is precisely because no member of the committee could have known the content of it and could not have known the contents of it because the Ministry of Justice prepared the amendment in its entirety, and the proposal of the Ministry of Justice was placed on the table of Members at the beginning of the committee meeting, and the Members could not read it. In fact, I will go further: the President himself could not read the proposal, which was indeed a 29-page and 29-point draft, which I think is without any respect for the President. My fellow Member said that although the President offered to order a reading pause, I would ask the Member back: how long can 29 pages be read in 29 points and then formed an opinion on it? I'll tell you honestly, Congressman, I'm not reading 29 pages in 5 minutes, and I'm not reading in 10 minutes, so that I can say something about it, in substance, whether it's a yes or a no. [[Dr. Vas Imre: 20 minutes!]] Not so to you, fellow Members, who have succeeded, because, as you have said, indeed, your fellow Members have voted precisely, in an accuracy and point by point to the submission of the amending proposal. I say to this, my fellow Member, that this is not a committee's work in this form. This committee was turned into a clown, which I think is entirely unworthy of the Hungarian Parliament. [[23.00]] I would ask the members of the government to refrain from this kind of behaviour in the future, that at the last moment, more precisely at the beginning of the committee meeting, such material of this magnitude should be brought before Members, because it is not possible to carry out work in substance. Or, if you wish to continue with this practice, I suggest, Member, that you suggest to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, that the law be amended and that the committees be abolished, because their existence is unnecessary and that work cannot be carried out there in substance. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-06-30-308	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members' speeches on the agenda in time-frames. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, or to the speaker who has registered in advance. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There will then be a summation final debate, so I will try not to repeat what was said in the general debate, but to highlight the characteristics of the legislative process itself, and to make some comments about it. When we listened to the ministers, we missed two things: the government programme and the so-called statute, which sets out the tasks of the ministries. This will be done by a government decree, but it is necessary to pass through these various laws the name change, the amendment of tasks, so that this bill could be presented to the Parliament. We thought that the reason why we couldn't get to know this statute or we couldn't get to know the government program is because the second and now the third Orbán government will come out with it as some sort of secret weapon, and we can get to know many things. But in the course of this debate and throughout the legislative process, we had to realize that there was nothing else here, but that the small ministries were fighting with the great Ministry, that is, the Ministry of the Prime Minister's Office, led by János Lázár, in the interests of powers and duties, which is why it was possible that, after all, one or two of the many tasks could have remained in the so-called small ministries. After all, if we look at the list, we can see that the Prime Minister, who is head of the Prime Minister's Office, has more than twenty powers: public procurement, construction, development of the European Union, organisation of public administration, local authorities, government offices, agricultural, rural development, and so on. And so the so-called small ministries were trying to take down some of these enormous powers that might be able to provide for their activities. In fact, it is not surprising that the relocation of ministries into the countryside was also mentioned, since the Prime Minister's Ministry covers all government activities, so the other ministers may actually be available, so he can go to the countryside. And the reason for this is that it is decentralisation, because decentralisation is not about what is in this bill, because it is about concentration, the total concentration of power within the framework of a ministry. Decentralisation would be about the task and competence of local communities, not the move of too many non-competent ministries. So I think that this process has shown this, and this is confirmed by the fact that we have just received it, that on Friday the Parliament will discuss the amendments relating to the tasks and powers of the Ministry of the Interior. This is also an amazing story, since we have not yet finished the amendments to the government's restructuring, we have already received a proposal for an amendment to the Ministry of Interior, which we will discuss on Friday. It seems that the Minister of the Interior woke up a little late because he noticed that his ministry would be smaller and smaller, as the ministry of John Lazarus grew like a little ball. So we will not be able to support this proposal, and we are asking that you take the structure of the government and the structure of the government significantly more seriously than that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-30-310	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I'll see if anyone wants to comment. [[No signal.]] No. In that case, the debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Répássy if he wants to see you; you have five minutes and 46 seconds. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-311	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I thank you for your patience for taking part in the debate on this basically technical bill and spending a number of hours on it. I would like to stress that the laws relating to the freedom of organisation of the government generally contain the rules on the organisation of work, the division of tasks of the executive authority, and that the whole government activity is characterised by the responsibility of the Prime Minister required under the Fundamental Law, and the Prime Minister is practically responsible for the operation of the government organisations of the executive power. So I think it is unnecessary, my position is that it is unnecessary to ask whether one minister or another minister has less or more powers, because the status of ministers in the Hungarian constitutional system is a dual responsibility. On the one hand, ministers are, of course, responsible to the Parliament, but they are also responsible to the Prime Minister, and therefore also to the Prime Minister. After all, the Prime Minister controls the activities of the ministers. So when, for example, we are talking about the perceived or real increase in the powers of the Prime Minister's Office, it is difficult to establish this because he has not been such a minister before. So so far, the Prime Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office has been the Head of State Secretary of the Prime Minister's work organisation and working body within a single Prime Minister's Office. He now manages a ministry compared to this, which also means that he has an independent responsibility for Parliament, and I have already called attention to this earlier, that, no longer as Secretary of State, but, for example, as today, there are a number of parliamentary control tools for opposition representatives and anyone who controls his activities from development issues to coordination issues, in everything they can ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. So, according to my statement, either the government intends to strengthen the parliamentary responsibility of the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office. Please take this into account when criticising this new governance structure. I have also explained in the parliamentary committees, in particular in the Legislative Committee, my position that, according to the provisions of the House Rules, the Government, as a national, cannot submit an amendment to its own proposal. Therefore, as has been the case in previous governments, individual parliamentary representatives can only correct their own bill by initiating amendments or Commission amendments. This can be changed, which requires a change of house rules, and according to the house rules, only the amendment before the final vote is currently the only instrument in which the author can influence the law he has put forward. Of course, this is very limited in scope to amend the laws by making such an amendment. So I do not think that there is any need to hide this, and the government, led by the Hungarian Socialist Party, did not hide the fact that it had asked Members to submit amendments or even asked committees to submit amendments to the laws in the committees. This, I would stress, was the result of a procedural procedure, and there would be no reason for him to correct his proposal during the procedure. Dear House, After that, I ask you to support the bill. In particular, I ask for this from the point of view of the fact that, in general, the freedom of government organisation is respected by the Parliament or parliamentary groups, and I believe that within the constitutional scope, the freedom of government organisation is wide-ranging. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2014-06-30-312	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions are expected to take on Friday, 4 July. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. [[23.10]] On this day, MEP László Kiss, spoke after the agenda: "The Summer of Óbuda, one of Hungary's most prestigious cultural events, is taking place. " I give you the floor. You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-313	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am going to try to bring you a little summer in Óbuda to the walls of this House at 11:00 p.m. It has been a permanent event of the summer programmes in Budapest for several years now, the Óbuda Summer event series. This is the third one. The district council organizes it, organizes it year after year. It is unique in Budapest that a summer festival offers such colorful programs that are equally attractive for all ages. This series of events is always, still a III. Opened with the concert of the Danubia Orchestra in Óbuda. Last December, he celebrated the 20th year of the band's existence, and Haydn, Tchaikovsky and Brahms' works appeared at his free concert. The feature of the festival is that its programmes form a bridge between the past, the present and the future, but also between the generations and the III. Between the people living in the district and the rest of the country. The events are open to anyone, so wherever he lives, no matter his age. For the first time this year, the Festival of Ages was the III. on the menu of a district event. In the military amphitheater, all those interested in this event were invited to participate in the colourful programmes of the medieval festival in front of Baroque, the Óbuda Synagogue, in the Zichy-udvar, and in the Krúdy-town, recalling the turn-of-the-century atmosphere. Here we were able to see how the Hungarians lived in Obuda during Krúdy's time. Throughout June, the island of Óbuda became a children's island, where the director expects families with small children with more colorful programs. The museums of the district, the Goldberger Textiles Collection, the Óbuda Museum, the Óbuda Society, the Óbuda Synagogue and the Óbuda Cultural Centre have also enriched these programs. It can now be said that by the end of the day, the programmes with which the III. The district awaits Óbudai, not Óbudai, Budapest and everyone in the country interested in every kind culture. During July and August, the programs include play, exhibition, classical and light music concerts, Balkan bouquet festival, family programs. During the event, Klári Tolnay and Bohumil Hrabal will be commemorated as well. The Liszt Ferenc Chamber Orchestra, the Budapest Strings, the Anima Musicae Chamber Orchestra, the St. Ephrém Men's Choir, the East Orchestra, the Ciuc Orchestra, the Óbuda Danubia Orchestra, the Muzsikás ensemble, the Alma ensemble and the Parazol ensemble. Dear House, I think that's how you can see that it's part of the third. district is one of the capital's cultural citadels. The summer series in Óbuda is an event of great importance, since it is an extremely high quality, open event that can be visited by everyone. We in Obuda, the III. In the district we are famous for waiting for people who colorize our programs, every year we try to organize better and more open events every year so that everyone can have a good time in the III. in the district. So if you ask me what to do in the summer, if you have some free time this afternoon, at night, I advise you to come out to Obuda. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-06-30-314	Thank you very much. The government has indicated that it does not wish to respond. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Péter Csizi, Fidesz, spoke after the agenda: "The Green City is Pécs. " Congressman, you have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you, fellow Members, for your attention at this late hour, when I would like to share with you a joyful news here in Parliament's walls, because the city of Pécs has won a special award for the title "100 percent renewable district heating. " More than ten thousand municipalities and regions in 12 European countries represented themselves at the renewable energy championship, which is an EU competition between municipalities, where municipalities can compete on the path of renewable energy use. The city of Pécs has proven that it is among the best in Europe in the use of renewable energy sources. Since the current heating season, Pécs became the first home town where the heat supply of remotely heated buildings - we are talking about 31 thousand apartments - is provided only with locally purchased fuel in a sustainable way. The 85 megawatt electricity power plant does not produce any fossil energy, it only uses biomass, which is currently unique in the European Union. I think that I do not need to describe in the days when there is a problem in supplying gas from Eastern Europe or beyond the Ural, what such an investment means in the long term in the life of a city, what it means in the energy supply of a city. Thanks to the investment, Pécs' CO2 emissions are reduced by 150,000 tonnes per year compared to the production of this supply, district heating, by natural gas. It is a special pleasure that the operation of the straw block comes entirely from the region's agriculture. This means that HUF 4 billion per year of additional revenue will remain in Hungary, with HUF 4 billion per year of additional revenue, from which we had purchased natural gas from the East, staying in Baranya County, with over a hundred farmers. In addition to biomass-based district heating, other renewable energy sources are used in Pécs. The biogas plant will soon start operating in the sewage plant. The recently transferred János Szentágothai Research Centre is supplied with heat energy by a heat pump system with more than 100 probes. The selection was based on the total amount of renewable energy installed in the locality. The jury also took into account, among other things, the commitment of the city to the use of renewable energy sources, whether the municipality has an energy strategy, and whether the municipality is an example of the energy modernisation of public institutions. This recognition indicates that the city of Pécs has already taken very serious steps to create a healthy green environment. At the same time, this award may open up additional tendering opportunities and help Pécs become the green capital of Europe in 2017. Only six cities have succeeded so far, so Pécs can be the first Eastern Central European city to win this title. If we gain recognition, it has great prestige, as it did in 2010, when our city was the cultural capital of Europe. Beyond this, however, cooperation opportunities with European cities and other European countries could be considered which could further strengthen the green edge of Pécs. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your attention. I wish you good work.
u2014-06-30-316	We thank the congressman, too. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, also applied for a post-scheduled speech: " What about traditional Hungarian animal species? " with the title " You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-30-317	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to narrow it down because in five minutes, I felt it would be difficult to talk about all these native, traditional farm animals and say a few words about horse breeding. The Hungarian language is very strange, and in the traditional Hungarian breeds we distinguish livestock, although the term "animal " would assume that they could bring some other benefit. Classically, the dairy and meat-producing sector activity of the buffalo, Hungarian grey, Hungarian tarka beef, our pork species is still able to appear as a local food, as a traditional food. [[23.20]] At the same time, the horse industry is completely on the verge of collapse. It is strange because any party we ask in the Hungarian Parliament or even outside the parliament seems generally to have a consensus on the issue of protecting native or traditional Hungarian breeds of horses as a priority. Everyone agrees on this, but the state of horse breeding is deteriorating across governments, and all tasks related to horse breeding are becoming less and less visible in government work. Now, in connection with this topic and speech, let me remember, on an anniversary, Fadallah El Hedad Mihály, a Hungarian gentleman of Egyptian origin with a novel life, who was a stud leader in the Bábolna herd, and he personally brought in very important melodies from the Egyptian region, which then became a dominant mein in the Arab race of the Shagya-Arab or Bábolna. Basically, there is a very big problem with the Shagya-Arab today, not to mention all of our other Hungarian races, the gidran and furiozo-North star, or the semi-blood of Mezőhegyes in the '20s. Hucul, nónius, Lipica, one by one, are varieties whose mare population is falling year after year in Hungary, and we have prepared a short material on this decline, which I would like to draw attention to this problem. What I would like to tell the government most of all, counting that later he will respond in writing, how it can be that, if government communication would greatly help to preserve these varieties, neither the field guard service, the cavalry police nor the state decorative units use the Hungarian races at all, but instead they use German sports breeds or sports horses as a cultural breed in Hungary. The maintenance of these Hungarian breeds does not appear anywhere in the public service, which would be a relatively obvious option. But the legal environment does not help this activity either, and practically does not provide for the use of horses of known origin in any form, so it could be used for horses of unknown origin with a 0 bake. The breeding mood is decreasing year after year, gene conservation subsidies are becoming more alarming to farmers, and it is not the aid at all, but a very low amount of alms, which is not enough to finance the excessive, increased administrative burden at all. Undeservingly little support, endlessly prolonged payment, very illogical expectations are being built into the support policy, the National Food Safety Office's horse register has not been resolved. The unspoken delay policy of the paying agency virtually makes farmers impossible. The lack of preparedness of certain paying agencies in relation to the variety basically creates conflicts. For this reason, I would also like to present the statistical data that I wanted to draw attention to the problem. Between 2010 and the end of 2013, the number of mares of traditional breeds of horses decreased by 4.3 percent, so there is a constant decrease in the number of dams. The number of mares covered has decreased by 14 percent in recent years. The number of registered foals has decreased by nearly 10 percent over the last ten years. The number of stallions has decreased by 17 percent in recent years. And there was also a decrease in the number of members of the association involved in breeding, nearly a fifth of them compared to the original. The number of supported mares decreased by 34 per cent from the start of the premium period, which means that the breeding mood that the aid would aim at does not ensure at all that the varieties will survive. I would be pleased if the government could show the importance of these goals in its efforts. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-318	Thank you very much. Member István Ikotity, LMP also applied for a post-scheduled speech: "After socialism, the Orbán regime also destroys the karst water treasure of the Balaton Highlands? " You have five minutes, please.
u2014-06-30-319	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the Balaton Uplands, with the approval of the regional green authority under political control, they are preparing to increase capacity in water extraction to provide remote areas which at the same time threaten the water supply and the unique natural resources of the region. In the process of authorisation, which is incomprehensible, there are at the same time signs of harmful side effects of the policy of the government that eliminates administrative independence, the problems of water providers who bleed out in the economy, and the government's approach to the lack of a sustainability approach. In the Balaton Uplands, in the zone from Felsőörs to Balatonakali, the state-owned Regional Waterworks Ltd. has submitted a request for a large-scale karst water extraction permit. They want to drill six wells with an average capacity of 9,000 cubic metres a day. The procedure started in November 2012, but only in August 2013 could the inhabitants of the 13 municipalities concerned and the owners of the wells in the area, the vineyards and farmers. This type of official information boycott is now considered normal, but it is in no way acceptable. Authorisation shall take place under special circumstances. For example, the impact area of one new well was forgotten in the impact study of two older existing water-elimination sites, so it seems that the new well does not interfere with the operation of the old ones, which is not true in reality. The new facilities not only make it impossible to operate existing wells, but also, by robbing the karst water base, mainly seasonally, during the summer period, the surface waters, sources, fauna and flora of the area, grape and fruit production. In addition to incorrect data and lack of data, there are other interesting facts in the authorisation documentation. The total network loss of the service provider DRV is close to 9 million cubic metres, i.e. a quarter of the total production. If only a small fraction of this were to be caught, it would not be necessary to drill new wells, eviscerate the karst water base. However, the renovation of the lagoon network is expensive, well drilling is much cheaper, and water service providers affected by rejuvenation do not have the opportunity to make the necessary investments. DRV is also part of a service club that has incurred a loss of 5.4 billion over the past few months due to the reduction of the rent. Thus, the water network, the environment and, finally, the population receiving the increasingly poor quality of service will be the victim of the USSR. In addition, DRV regularly provides significant amounts of water to Bakonykarst, which means that the new wells may not be needed to provide the people living in their own service area. The authority that allows well drilling despite all these anomalies deserves a few words. We are talking about the Central Transdanubian Environmental, Nature and Water Inspectorate, led by Zoltán Illés, a woman without professional qualifications and competence, former personal secretary of Elijah, former director of the Práter street primary school in Budapest. The authority in question is not only famous for having almost damaged the Balaton Highlands by allowing the extraction of karst water linked to the bauxite mining, but also for finding the dams of the MAL to be perfectly fine immediately before the red sludge disaster. There is strong suspicion that the inspectorate is now carrying out a political order with the permission of well drilling, as the right professional position would be to require the DRV to eliminate the outstandingly high network losses instead of drilling. The case repeatedly shows that the voluntarism of the Orbán government is failing more and more often. Hungary cannot be operated by this method. The independence and professional management of public authorities should be restored, the water supply should be subject to a price that includes all the costs of sustainable water use, and the Hungarians should be given a salary from which this can be done. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2014-06-30-320	Thank you very much. Márta Demeter, MSZP, applied for a post - agenda address. You have five minutes, Congresswoman, please.
u2014-06-30-321	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In this House, it is well known how difficult the Hungarian Defence Office is. The Hungarian Defence Office is characterised by huge fluctuations, mass of unfilled statuses, defense budget reduced to historical lows, outdated and elamorated assets. [[23.30]] Despite these extremely stepdaughter circumstances, thanks to the dedication and preparedness of our soldiers, as well as the cross-border programmes, the Hungarian Defence Office can also produce results that trigger international recognition. In view of their actuality, I would like to draw the attention of this House to two such successes. The 5th anniversary of its existence will be celebrated in 2014 by the heavy air transport regiment stationed at the papal base airport, which operates under a military cooperation programme comprising 12 countries. Hungary plays a special role in the programme as an inclusive nation. Not only does it provide the base aerodrome of the fleet of C-17 carriers, but the aircraft were also registered in Hungary, so they fly with a Hungarian signal. Five years ago, in 2009, as a result of the exemplary cooperation between the then socialist government and the parliamentary parties, Pope could become the base of the military troops of these many nations. During this short period, this initiative was set up by a fully operational aviation regiment as an excellent example of transnational cooperation and joint capability development. One of the most important developments in the coming years is expected to be the construction of the hangar complex of strategic air transport capability at Pope's base airport. On the 5th anniversary of the heavy air transport regiment, we express our hope that the government will do everything in its power to make the necessary investment as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Another important, proud event is the annual NATO TigerMeet Air Force Exercise, where the Hungarian Defence Forces have participated for the third time this year. The Hungarian Army's Puma Company won a preliminary entrance to the prestigious NATO Federation on the basis of its performance in 2009 and the recommendation of the participating countries, and this year it won full membership. The purpose of the annual meeting is to facilitate cooperation between air forces, to enable pilots to carry out tasks that need to be carried out in a large manner and which may not be allowed by the country's airspace. In the current exercise, Kecskemét Air Base participated with 5 Gripen and An-26 logistical support, 42 soldiers. We are proud that the Hungarian Defence Puma Company has become a full and voting member of the Tiger NATO Federation. Our soldiers have demonstrated their excellence in countless international forums, offering outstanding performances that are a source of recognition both in Europe and in the world. These successes are a good example of the long-term, systematic work beyond government cycles, building on already laid funds, even under difficult conditions, to achieve significant results. The preservation and further development of these results is one of the most important tasks of the current defence management. At the same time, it is essential for the Hungarian Defence Forces to be able to practice properly in the domestic field and to do so with appropriate technical equipment. Therefore, the improvement of the operating conditions of the defence and the start of the technical modernisation of the defence should no longer be postponed. After several years of freezing, we also consider it urgent to increase the salary of soldiers. To this end, we expect strong government measures and support all initiatives to this end. Because defence is a national matter, and the Hungarian Defense is the pride of the whole nation. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-30-322	Thank you very much. For a post - agenda speech, Mr President Novák, Jobbik, said: "Dr. Miklós Useful's straight path sets the course for the end of the regime change. " Congressman, you have five minutes.
u2014-06-30-323	Dear Parliament, The real change of regime has failed, and the spring cleaning promised by the MDF has been delayed since then, but the revolution in the polling booths has also been canceled. However, it is just as bad that there has also been a lack of system change within the church. A few years before his death at the age of 83, Miklós Useful said so. The later Christian Democratic politician, who had been dragged into forced labour by the Rákosi dictatorship, was also a national presidency advisor to Jobbik and a candidate for EP membership in 2009, a supporter of national radicalism. As former president of the Association of Workers' Services between 1951 and'56, he also contributed to the preparation of Jobbik's anti-communist programme package, helped the party's parliamentary work, unfortunately its objectives remain current. The Jobbik considers Dr. Useful Miklós to be his own dead. My personal pain was also very close to me, with the death of Dr. Miklós Useful, and the omission that the KDNP member number 1 owner, Dr. Miklós Useful, did not consider KDNP necessary in the case of his death to publish even a brief condolences, while, for example, they did so at the time of Gyula Horn's death. Of course, I understand that Miklós Useful also spoke bravely on political taboo issues. I quote from your interview with the Barikad weekly: "In today's political life, it is obsessed that anyone who dares to express an objective opinion on Israel in any respect is going to be out of this circle. The fate of KDNP is sealed by the fact that some of its representatives sacrifice their own consciences on the altar of personal career and material security. " Dr. Miklós Useful had already participated in the so-called Mindszenty student protests in 1947-48, which he recalled: "When the chase began against the Mindszentys in the late 40s, the communists closed the church schools in a row, and we organized sympathy demonstrations. The enthusiasm was great, and we also protested in Pécs, and we asked that Mindszenty come out to the balcony of the Bishop's Palace and bless us. The result was that, after the end of the Mindszenty trial, I was excluded from all central and higher education institutions in Hungary. " He didn't even get a job, so they interned him as a detour. Komlo was first worked in coal mines and later in the quarry. In 1951 he was prosecuted for another youth conspiracy, but he was not prosecuted because he was forced to do military work in February 1952. For 28 months, he worked hard in physical work, including construction of Tasari, Sármmellék and Szentkirályzabadja airports, 12 hours a day of concrete work, and at night of truck unloading. In 1956, he was a working council member in Komlón, and after the repression of the revolution, he was taken into public security custody several times before 15 March and 23 October. In order to get rid of the constant harassment of local organizations, he moved to Budapest in 1960, where he couldn't register for a long time, so he had no address, he couldn't deliver invitations. His cart was removed from the watch list, believed to have defected. During the new economic mechanism, in 1969, he set up the first cooperative company, where there were no parties and no trade unions, and they worked effectively. He joined the MDF in 1988 and participated in the foundation of KDNP in 1989. Member of Parliament in the first two cycles, until 1999, Vice-President of the KDNP, member of the presidency of the National Association of Political Prisoners from 2000 to 1999, and after the evolution of Jobbik, a member of the presidency, a permanent guest of management meetings, and in 2009 a candidate of the EP. As the former President of the Association of Workers' Services between 1951 and'56, he assisted Jobbik's parliamentary work, such as Zoltán Balczó in 2001 drew attention to an outstanding failure of the governments of the last twenty years that, to this day, no compensation had been made for work during the Rákosi dictatorship. Dr. Miklós Useful in the church also urged the change of regime and that the real shepherds persecuted by the churches, who were exiled to the smallest settlements, should have been raised and set as an example for the Hungarian people to see the church here [[The president's ringing the bell.]] "which could preserve such people," said Miklós Useful, "and such people could be preserved by the Hungarian nation as Miklós Useful. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-30-324	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next extraordinary meeting will take place on 4 July 2014. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good night, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 11:40 p.m.]]
