u2019-02-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Thank you, dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, On this day, February 19th, we celebrate the day of the Hungarian nurses. This is the birthday of Zsuzsanna Kossuth, who was the chief nurse of camp hospitals during the most trying times, during the 1848-49 freedom fight. On 12 May around the world, the creator of modern nursing school, Florence Nightingale, is remembered for similar activities, who took on this sacrifice during the Crimean war. Lajos Kossuth's sister's excellent organizational skills were put in the service of the task, and she conscientiously performed the office entrusted to her. According to his confession, the purpose of his mission is to seek out and alleviate suffering. The National Assembly intended to commemorate this, when in 2014 it declared the birthday of Zsuzsanna Kossuth as the day of the Hungarian nurses, thus stressing the appreciation of the nursing work. In 2017, a memorial plaque was inaugurated at the Faculty of Health Sciences of Semmelweis University on the occasion of its 200th anniversary, and last year he received a memorial plaque at the house of his former work in Budapest and in New York. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great challenge for all of us to make the career of a nurse a highly respected, prestigious, attractive profession, especially today, when this area also faces a significant shortage of staff. At the same time, we must give our appreciation to our fellow citizens, who have worked as nurses for decades, who are doing this psychologically and physically very hard work every day. Their position, as Zsuzsanna Kossuth's spiritual heritage and dedication to the suffering members of Hungarian society are exemplary. Thank you and respect for all of you. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work by speaking before the agenda. Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of Group, Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech: How long does power abuse our patience? It's an address. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2019-02-19-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I see that we have turned to another campaign when you are flooding the country with propaganda, so I would like to say it at the very beginning of my speech before you turn my words into Fidesz propaganda, that Jobbik agrees that demographic indicators and the replacement of labour shortages should be fundamentally improved and resolved by population policy instruments, not immigration. As always, we are consistently opposed to illegal migration, supporting Hungarian families, encouraging children is an important objective. In these efforts, Jobbik will always be there for them. But this is about the end of our great agreement, because for Fidesz population policy is the same political product as everything that has been started for the past 30 years, just like the migration that you are fighting in words, but tens of thousands of migrants have been deployed between 2015 and 17 years. Anyone who knows the Hungarian statistics, the Hungarian statistics, knows exactly what I'm talking about; more through and through the permissions of the Immigration Office. Viktor Orbán's year review gave us the sanctified version of the population policy measures. The great news has already been opened in the form of a message by Prime Minister; we had to wait a few days to learn the details in the narrative of Katalin Novak. It turns out that not all the gold that shines, and your propaganda is starting to look a little like the Jerevan radio. [[István Szilárd Németh: The grapes are sour, my friend!]] It turns out that it wasn't exactly then, not quite so, and it wasn't exactly where what they were saying, but of course we understand what this story is about. You can pack any way you like, through the colourful paper, what you think of us Hungarians. The Hungarian youth is a breeding animal, which if you fill it with credit, it produces the necessary number of children. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: SZDSZ! S.O.P.D.! Tamás Bauer wrote it.]] And when you have it, you can go to the assembly plant next to the tapes, and someone will raise that child, because, thanks to the overtime law, the slave law, parents will soon have no time left to raise their own child. Even nobler animals do not breed in captivity, let alone people with plans and goals. You look deeply down on the Hungarian people and drive them back into a type of gamble that you and the socialist governments following you drove people into when they were encouraged to take out foreign currency loans and into which a whole generation almost fell. Hungarian young people want to be able to stand on their own feet, create predictable everyday life for themselves, get a secure job and a decent salary. Hungarian young people do not want to live in a country that you created, where learning and knowledge have no honor, where intellectuals and independent ideas are persecuted, where entrepreneurs are impossible, and where Fidesz partyism is the only guarantee of progress. You can see the result: nearly a million young Hungarians have left their country, so young [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's over a million, ask him.]] Who has basically left nearly 1 million 600 thousand, and according to your Statistical Office, 370 thousand young people are preparing to leave this country within a closed deadline. I recommend to my fellow Member in Rétvár that you get to know the data of the HCSO. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Don't list so much. You're losing your mind about listing.]] Almost a million young Hungarians have already left this country as a result of your policy. You have reached the peak of the neoliberal economic policy that socialist governments have previously experimented with. [[András Tállai: Do you have a list? List King!]] The essence of your economic policy is to deliver Hungarian workers to foreign capital through strategic contracts, and you optimize these companies by tens of millions of forints, so that they do not focus on the interests of Hungarian workers. They soften the Code of Work and constantly introduce laws that violate the interests of Hungarian workers. Trade unions have been dismantled, weakened, degraded, and today there is no one to protect Hungarian workers. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Bérunion! Bérunion!]] As a result of the low wages, hundreds of young people leave this country, which is why Jobbik Hungary's Movement has set the goal of improving competitiveness through the reform of cohesion policy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Intercoms.]] stand on the side of Hungarian workers, unlike you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-02-19-3	Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. It was interesting when the group leader spoke about Jobbik's support for the fight against immigration. Then why did they call the border lock a failure? Why did they attack the referendum? Why have they not voted in favour of the amendment of the basic law, and why are the government constantly preventing its struggle? [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Tens of thousands of migrants have been allowed in! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[9.10]] As far as support for families is concerned, I would like to ask you why you are already under attack. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the family support programme when it has not yet entered into force [[Tamás Pintér: You should listen to what we say!]] when it didn't even come into force! We know very well that there are many life situations in Hungary, all of which must be taken into account. Now the government has announced seven types of measures, but this does not mean that there will be no further package of measures. [[László Varju: More?]] I would also like to say that the willingness to marry has increased in Hungary, more marriages, divorces have decreased and the willingness to have children has also improved. His recent speech and yesterday's joint seance prove to us that they are completely entangled in left-wing parties [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And they don't even want to be a little independent of them. That's why a few days ago, Jobbik could say that they were cooperating with anyone, not only Ferenc Gyurcsány, but also the devil's mother, if necessary. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks, including his grandmother.]] Now, that's principle-based politics. They want to make a shiny coalition with eyeballs. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: For the sake of Hungarian employees, against you!]] Let me ask you something. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let me ask you this: when your election declared in January 2017 that it was not an alliance with the MSZP, was that a lie? When your president said last year that the DK-MSZP pair was most responsible for the last 28 years, was that a lie? If you said earlier that the MSZP destroyed the economy, then why is that not a problem? Why are you joining them? As far as insulting is concerned, we have already brought this up: you are like the left that you are constantly insulting the Hungarians. Now I do not want to mention this animal statement, which is in itself insulting to use that term [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He has insulted all Hungarian families!]] But there's a history of that. The Hungarians were considered to be self-serving. They were claimed to vote on the basis of whom they received 300 forints more. According to their former president, a large part of the Hungarians did not use the term "brain" in the election last year, it is serious in itself, and a few days ago we find out how you talk about the older generation, they are called "far-back commandos." [[Interviews from Jobbik: Speak of the Mayor of Szolnok! Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! Shame! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] And it's about the generation of which the tragedy of XX. It's a company! [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-02-19-4	Congresswoman!
u2019-02-19-5	The minimum, Mr. Group Leader, is to apologize to them, the millions who have been insulted in their dignity. So, the thing is, you refer to the Hungarians, but you really despise them, otherwise you wouldn't talk about them that way. Meanwhile, skeletons fall out of the closet, proving that Jobbik remained an extreme party even when rubbing against the left. [[Moraj from the opposition parties. Péter Ungár: Logically, this is a difficult claim! Szabó Timea: Here, sew a button on this.]] Because they're in vain... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Márton Gyöngyösi: You read the paper, you threw it out!]] It's no use. .......................................................................................................................................... [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]]
u2019-02-19-6	Dear Jobbik faction, Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Dear Jobbik faction, I recall that you were heard by the Secretary of State and the governing parties. Please do the same. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Grumbles and interruptions in Jobbik's ranks: You remember wrong! He's walking with a krone! We're doing what they do! Márton Gyöngyösi: It is not our fault that there are more of us in this room than they are!]] Do the same. Thank you. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-02-19-7	The thing is, and you know it very well, there are people in Jobbik's ranks on different levels, either in the foreground or in the background, who spit on the Holocaust Memorial, who joked about the number of victims who boasted about beating a Jewish woman. [[Rumors and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik.]] You were the one who suggested here to list the Jewish people in the government and Parliament. This is going to be a big deal. And now they've nominated a representative who has actually listed the dual citizens. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Tamás Pintér: Don't lie!]] not in Hungary, but in American public life. So much for popularism. Nothing's changed. And even though they wear a dung coat, the sarcasm of the little squire hangs out from under it. [[Moray of Jobbik: Intercoms from Jobbik: Sit down! Pathetic!]] And the fact is, the parties on the left who have romance with Jobbik know this very well. It's all this, but it's not XXI. It's the 20th century, much more so than the 20th century. Worst part of the century. If you dispute this, you can go to the House of Terror Museum, where you can also go to the room of the transformer and ask yourself a question. [[Péter Ungár: I'll arrange a ticket!]] What they would say to the fifty-six heroes who supported the establishment of Jobbik. I think their own voters are looking forward to an answer. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-19-8	Thank you. Dear Parliament, She also applied for a speech before the agenda with the title of Szabó Timea, Head of the Group, Dialogue Fragment on Current Affairs. You've got the floor, ma'am.
u2019-02-19-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, That's not what I'm gonna talk about, but let me react in an unconventional way to Csaba Dömötör, because it's very funny when the Fidesz representative says who's cooperating with whom. The fact that the Fidesz extreme liberal party has become an extreme right-wing party is something I think you could learn from, but that is not the policy we follow. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Dialogue is consistent! Interview from Fidesz: How many parties have you been in?]] Fidesz was the one who listed it, you listed the opposition in the Watcher, you ran an anti-Semitic campaign against George Soros. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: We ask for it!]] And your János Lázár said that Gypsies can't fit in in Hungary, so let's leave this crap alone, okay? But more importantly, yesterday we and the opposition representatives visited the Suzuki factory in Esztergom, in the Suzuki factory, which, as a strategic partner of the government, received HUF 2.6 billion of non-refundable state aid, i.e. a gift, last March. Now, this Suzuki factory has told us that their territory is private property, and opposition representatives can't go in there. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Németh Szilárd István: That's how it is! It happens! Sometimes Szabó Timea can't do everything! It's a game like that!]] The leaders were cowardly in there, and they sent out a communications expert instead of you, as if the wages of the workers, the breakdown of families, because of your slave law, were a matter of communication. Even though Suzuki claims that they've solved production with 250 hours of overwork, we know that by firing the man who wanted to set up a union, they didn't dare. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No one lives from the faction, what do we have here?]] Faced with opposition representatives, it means and it has been demonstrated that they will apply this slave law. Here, Viktor Orbán and the leaders of the Suzuki factory wink at each other, because it is also in Fidesz legislation that the slave law can only be applied with the agreement of the union. So if you don't have a union leader because you're fired, you don't have a strong union, and if you don't have a union, one way or another, you'll be forced to work 400 hours too hard. That's exactly what Viktor Orbán wants. Viktor Orbán wants one of those Hungarys [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where wages rise!]] where, as in South Asia, workers work 6 days a week for hunger. The Suzuki factory is not the enemy, I don't have to say, but any factory and company that exploits Hungarian people is the enemy of Hungarian people. And these companies do this together with Viktor Orbán. Viktor Orbán has been at war against Hungarian workers and the interest representatives since he came to power. Abandoned early retirement and early retirement [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You could quote Lenin as Mrs. Bango!]] By rewriting the labor code, he cut employees' rights, reduced the amount of sick pay, made the strike impossible. This is only done by a prime minister who hates his own country, who despises and laughs at his own people, who are not concerned with the country's happiness, but only about money. The fact that Viktor Orbán thinks that the subject of the slave law will slowly be forgotten because you are trying to bring in new topics is that it will not work. You imagine that workers will slowly swallow this 400-hour overwork, and that they will not be paid for it for three years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true! That's not true. Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying! That's not true.]] Well, I have some bad news: Hungarian workers are not as easy to overcome as you think and as you hope. The recent developments in the weeks show that the workers are able to stand up for themselves, the workers will see every success, and will make them more confident. The national strike committee has already been established, many of the public sector workers will be on strike in March if the government continues not to speak to them. [[You just said you couldn't strike!]] [[9.20]] The slave law will not be accepted by workers, trade unions or opposition representatives. We will fight together against the slave law, and we will not stop fighting until we make the world of work fair, the everyday lives of people. And it is not enough to withdraw the slave law, nor will we stop here. A Code of Fair Work, which takes account of the interests of workers, must be established. The destruction of workers' rights and lives must be stopped. You have to raise your wages. We need to free up the strike. A fair retirement system must be established. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This has been happening for eight years!]] But the thing is, it can't be done to you. So the goal is not only to rewrite the labor code, but also to clean up your government. The union has already joined forces, the workers have joined forces, and the opposition parties are working together. And you will not be able to destroy this cooperation with any despicable propaganda or any other means. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've put faith in Jobbik again!]] We will fight until we not only withdraw the slave law, but we will also remove you from the government.
u2019-02-19-10	Congresswoman, your time frame is over. Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Bodó wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-02-19-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! Well, it certainly seems obvious that, by discovering the small signs of professional contributions, there is indeed a serious campaign topic here. You left yesterday, Esztergom, we heard about this. [[Szabó Timea: This is unheard of! This is unheard of in Parliament!]] So you're out of town, Esztergom. Well, they didn't go with Suzuki. The locals might have liked to have one of those cars in the fleet, but that didn't happen. [[Szabó Timea: Do you have a Suzuki, Secretary of State?]] They faced the reality that the workplace was a serious matter, and they didn't let you in there to play what you did here in Budapest. Here you can face the fact that a job has its order, that you have to work there. [[Szabó Timea: Where are the Fidesz MEPs?]] Everyone has their responsibilities, and from now on, I think they must have left disappointed. The employment indicators that you are quite critical of Suzuki can be considered a straight-up self-goal, as there have never been as many people working in Hungary as they are currently working on. Nearly 4.5 million people work. [[Szabó Timea: Public work!]] Now, you're all very enthusiastic about community service, community service, but look at the continuous data that says that less and less people are working in public employment and more and more people are working in the competition sector. So I suggest that you consider this rather practiced community service, public service and yelling in the future. In the context of wage negotiations, I must confront you with what happened at the end of last year with the agreement of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, because both representative trade unions and employers' representatives, it is true that after several rounds of negotiations, you signed the wage agreement which I think is the basis of everything. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: There is no such thing!]] In this situation, a wage increase of 8 per cent was set up in relation to the minimum wage, as with the guaranteed minimum wage, and what was not really the case before was also an 8 per cent wage recommendation, which I think is a serious guideline that should be taken into account in every workplace. [[Szabó Timea: Is that why the union leader was fired?]] Of course, it is possible to yell at why it is not more, and everyone can say one more number, but believe me that in this situation, the economy that keeps getting better and better is also a condition that it can be predictable and that it has the stability that is essential for these wage increases to continue. [[Szabó Timea: They voted for a 30% wage increase for themselves!]] It is therefore a complete error in their thoughts about the overtime law. But I would not really call this a mistake, but a deliberate deception, because if the Hungarian reality were like what you said, then probably now, when you received the first payments at the beginning of February, there would be long lines. But it's not like that. The protests are mostly for you. [[Szabó Timea: Employees will be there with us!]] In this situation, I do not think you can say at all that the workers would be there for you in a long line. With regard to Suzuki, it is indeed true that the government has concluded a strategic partnership agreement with Magyar Suzuki. In this situation, the information published is correct, and workers have indeed initiated the formation of a trade union several times. This has not been successful in the past, and the presidents have won their claim in a labour suit in their next response. This also proves that there is legal certainty in Hungary. In the context of the current conflict, workers have actually decided to establish a trade union alliance. I can totally accept their feelings when they say it's not supposed to be in a parking lot. And as to how and how the negotiation takes place in the factory, I myself think that the working council and the union should not be mixed up in this sense. [[Szabó Timea: The solution is not to fire the union leader! This is your world!]] It should be seen that in the world of work, in order to enforce collective autonomy, the legal environment sets out and ensures the protection of the right to organise, and this is clearly regulated by the Fundamental Law and the Labour Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Where to continue the home care fee? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-02-19-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I think, in a government, who's to be governed, you can decide who's to make a law. When multinational companies asked to amend the Labour Code, they did so within minutes, with two individual representatives from the battlefield, even if the agenda was adopted incorrectly. At that time, they did not have to listen to the letters of Lorem's ipsum-like 14 thousand characters, there was no months of false reconciliation, where the text was missing from the EMMI, there was no months of preparation to be held, let it go, here the red, where the red, folk games can be described; but at that time they immediately submitted to 400 hours of overtime in Hungary, and this was quickly accepted. The fact is that when opposition representatives and civilians wanted to increase the home care fee, they did not manage to settle this with an individual amendment motion. You will now stand up and tell me, as in all your written responses, something about banging and not taking part in the vote, but the fact is that the bill that you presented at the time did not solve this situation, but that you separated those people, that the parents nursed their children from nurses, that they turned people against each other, and that they only wanted to solve this problem in part. Currently in Hungary, those who care for their elderly parents receive around 55-60 thousand forints a month. You will say in the answer that this was a 15 percent increase compared to the previous year. I would like to ask you to say this in HUF, Mr Secretary of State, not in percentage, that we are all in this House to hear exactly how much an increase of 15 per cent means at 55 thousand forints from one year to another. The fact is, they couldn't even handle home care for children properly. The impact assessment I requested from the EMMI, which was the basis for the scoring, you've been encrypting it for ten years. What's a ten-year secret about this could be a theoretical mystery to me. I hope you can shed light on this in your reply, Mr Secretary. I would go further: the point system was not properly consulted, inter alia, with organisations representing children with autism or Down's disease, and it is also wrong in the system that neither the grandparents can use this system nor use it in addition to the pension. But I'm moving on to the home-care area of the parents. You are very concerned with the demographic problem. The basis for the work that people will do with 400 hours of overtime is the caring work that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens will do for free or very little salary. We know precisely that the situation of Hungarian society means that in 20 or 30 years there will be many older people, much more than now, and they, thank God, will live much longer. But this means that it will be a burden to the institutional system that cannot be resolved with the current institutional capacity or in any other way than to set up home care as a viable alternative. [[9.30]] The thing is, this 55,000 forints isn't enough. And now let's talk about how much it would cost for people who care for their elderly parents at home to raise the home care fee to at least 100,000 forints. Now, if I was fidesz in opposition iks years ago, I'd be talking about ventilators and holding a press conference in water and stuff, but whatever. [[Németh Szilárd István: We never talked about this. Péter Cseresnyés: Péter Medgyessy!]] But I will not do this, and I will not count it in a ventilator, but the fact is that simply, if we compare what Mr. Secretary said just now with how much tax relief he received, let's say Suzuki, it would be a good thing for those who care for their elderly parents at home to receive this premium. The fact is that people in Hungary who do care work on the basis of the primary labour market, either in an institution or at home, do not receive proper respect. To date, the social pay table has not been sufficiently developed, there are humiliating salaries in areas where very valuable work is carried out. So if you care so much about the family, and it is so important that everyone in the family can live with dignity, then don't feel sorry for those people who are doing one of the most important jobs in Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-02-19-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think every time we talk about such a subject, we have to say that it is a huge human achievement for those who care for their children at home or for other relatives. For a family when a child is born who cannot care for himself and needs to be cared for all day, it is not only a great financial challenge but also a huge human challenge and task. We give all our appreciation to those who do this, and they do it every day out of love and humanity. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: It is time to do this after eight years!]] Honourable Congressman! Let me quote you from five minutes ago: it qualifies the Member of Parliament, the legislator, for whose behalf he legislates. Indeed, we could say the same to you from the pro-government benches. You called the whole December 12th activity, about degraded it, and also the seriousness of it all, "clanging." [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] This shows that it's just an act for you, and everything is just an audition for you, so you've been banging a little bit, and now you think so, on December 12th. It's just that this is not a rattle valley, but this is the Hungarian Parliament, and we are making laws and laws here, and not beeping and honking is the genre, honourable Member. [[Constant, loud noise in the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] On December 12th, the Parliament's agenda was to increase the care fees, and on December 12th, the introduction of the children's home care fee was included on the Parliament's agenda. What have you done on this day? When the President went up to the pulpit to put this and other legislative proposals to the vote, in an unprecedented manner for generations in Hungarian parliamentarism, they prevented the head of Parliament by physical violence from putting the question to the vote about his own place, his pulpit, and making Parliament vote whether we will provide more than HUF 10 billion or HUF 14 billion of additional resources to families who care for their children at home, care for their relatives at home, and whether we will provide any additional support. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You did it after all.]] Having been able to put this question to the vote from his place, the president, although you wanted to prevent him from doing so from his normal place, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then, even though you're all here...
u2019-02-19-16	Congresswoman Vadai! Congresswoman Agnes Vadai! I ask you very much to listen to Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'll ask you, too. He's totally indifferent, what he's gonna say, soros is coming.]] Congresswoman, I do not wish to argue with you. I'm gonna ask you to stop. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-02-19-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, when the president put the question to the vote about his place, in addition to many other legislative proposals, whether the pro-government and opposition representatives support the introduction of a child's home care fee, the fact that we will first raise this benefit to HUF 100,000 from this year onwards, and then, and then, until 2022, constantly rise and reach the minimum wage level by 2022, then you have all been in Parliament, here in the Chamber, but none of you have gone to its place, and you have not pressed the yes button. They could have done that if this question had been important to you. [[Péter Ungár, Dr. Ágnes Vadai, Timea Szabó intervenes.]] It would have been more important than the action you called the banging, and then they would have taken three steps, a foot and a half walk, and they would have gone to their place and pressed the yes button. [[Interview from KDNP benches: Csürhe.]] But they didn't do that. On another bill, they all sat in their seats and pressed their ballots. They didn't go to this bill because it wasn't important to you. Anyone who cared about him went there and voted for him. For you, it's the same role as the rest of us. Because this is indeed an issue, honourable Member, in which we can all agree. But for you there, this role, then, to upset the legal and orderly functioning of Parliament, was more important than what you were supposed to have fought for in words for weeks before, honourable Member. The government, on the other hand, has stepped away from the fact that we have indeed raised everyone's care fee by 15 percent this year, by 5 percent next year, by 5 percent again after that, and by 5 percent in 2022, we have introduced the children's home care fee, which should be 100,000 forints this year and the minimum wage by 2022. But you are not only qualified by us, but by the organizations involved. You referred to autism. Let me read to you the opinion of the president of the National Alliance of Autists. According to the amendment, it is a positive government measure, which is a great help to the families of autistic people unable to self-sufficiency. So far, it's our rating. And it's your rating. People with disabilities and their families have enough problems. And it doesn't help if they get untrue information, for example, from political intent. This kind of alarm, along with the alliance of autists, we ask you to stop. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-19-18	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, MEP László Varju, DK Group asked to speak with the title "II." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-02-19-19	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Fidesz Members who are not present! Well, let's talk about who's important. After all, in recent months you have clearly shown that you are least interested in the lives of Hungarians, and you have made it clear that it does not matter to you that the majority of Hungarians in Europe will spend their Saturdays at work instead of spending time with their families. You didn't care that the fathers and mothers wouldn't see their children when they did the 400 hours of extra work they were forced to do. But the situation is clear. We need more decent wages for decent work than more work. That's what they want at Suzuki. Those who do not give it to them, and those who do not get it, are entitled to trade union action, to the representation of workers' rights. And you'll forgive me, you'll forgive the fact that such a factory management, the manufacturer of our car, will prevent all of this. You'll forgive me, and you've made it possible to adopt laws that might have allowed this man to be dismissed. And we have solidarity with him. As a patriot, I think we did everything we could to get you to back off. In a country where the lives of European Hungarians are the first, you should have thanked us for taking action against the slave law and calling on you not to accept it. If Hungary were the first for you, they would not support car manufacturers, car manufacturers and some fidesz oligarchs, but would have said thank you very much for showing us what should not be accepted. You could have thanked us for reminding you of who you really need to serve. Of course, at a time when executive power is blind and deaf to its own people, while you faithfully serve it, there is no thanks for patriotism, but some punishment. Anyone speaking in the name of the people and doing this to those who do it against the people will be dragged by armed security guards, bribes, discredits. You made it very clear that we serve the Hungarians in this country, not the Orbán system. How do you think you can ignore tens of thousands of protestors in over 50 parts of the country? What do you think you're doing, ignoring the unions? How do you think you're ignoring Members' rights? We can already see that you want to ignore the opposition representing the will of 2.5 million Hungarians, but more than half of your voters agree on this issue. [[9.40]] Here and now I speak for more than 5 million Hungarians when I say that the slave law is a crime against the people, which you should never have accepted. Now, should I tell you that the country can't be in opposition? Would that make any sense to you? [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: April 8th!]] I'm not sure. Or is it that the 5 million Hungarians are actually Soros agents, and so is half of the Fidesz voters? Fellow Members! You are the ones who haven't heard the voice of Hungary in months. You are responsible for everything that you have done and your government is doing. No father, no mother will forgive you for not seeing your child this weekend. The reason he wasn't at the kids' soccer game was because he didn't go to the playground, and the reason he didn't actually see them grow up is because the snapping of the car companies themselves was more important than our families. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Sunday lock...]] [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Sunday lock...]] But they won't forgive me, because no one will be able to give back the time they spent at work because of your slave law. This law not only betrays workers, but also betrays families when the family's common time has otherwise been labeled working time. (Dr. Péter Hoppál: Sunday lock...) If there's a way to break up families, then that's exactly how it should be done, fellow Members! [[Dr. Pál Völner: Why didn't you support the ban on Sunday's lockdown?]] More work, more overtime that you don't even have to pay. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Winning!]] Half a million Hungarians have already been driven out of this country, and tens of thousands more will now be put on their way. You're not anti-immigration, you're pro-immigration. That's the truth, or they wouldn't drive away hundreds of thousands of Hungarians. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: This is what Gyurcsány said... Dr. Bence Rétvári: You missed the house!]] You're the reason we got here. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You can go...]] You're the reason why you're making car-free. a loan must be offered [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What did your president say about this? The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To make people believe [[The president's ringing again.]] They're not enemies of the families. You're not gonna make it. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Record that Peter Hoppál said you can go! Péter Cseresnyés: He said that Ferenc Gyurcsány said that! Dr. László György Lukács: He didn't say! Peter Cseresnyés: But he said! A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-02-19-20	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Bodó wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-02-19-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We can feel part of a bit of time travel, as the gentleman who spoke these thoughts several times at the end of the previous year. Tell me, tell me, and even if we try to confront reality, it doesn't really affect your opinion. [[Noise from the benches of opposition parties.]] Of course, everyone's heart has the right to say what practiced sayings. You are constantly talking about the terrible harms of amending the Code of Work, and you simply have no intention of familiarising yourself with the substance of this. I mean, I can almost give up and confront you, but I can't. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Easy! No problem.]] And if you think about what I just mentioned, how and how the employment indicators in Hungary turn out, as opposed to the time of your governance, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: They perform better in London. Berlin, too.]] how wages turn out, as opposed to the time of your governance, how many jobs will be created [[Zsolt Gréczy: Let's look at it compared to the first Orbán government.]] What the unemployment rate is like, I think there's nothing to argue about. Yet you are probably trying to use this important area for campaign purposes. I'm so sorry. In the labour market, the performance of the economy is improving, and more and more people are working. Of course, there is always more to be done, and we will do so, even by transforming employment classes. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] to bring workers and employers closer together [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] to improve the performance of the economy. That's the specific answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's it?]]
u2019-02-19-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP Group, spoke with a title on current affairs. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Hurrah! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We hope you will sing religious music.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-02-19-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said today, it is the birthday of Zsuzsa Kossuth, the day of the Hungarian nurses. Zsuzsa Kossuth was a self-sacrifice man who did everything for his country, for the wounded, for his colleagues, for the health care. When we talk about this subject on this day, the first word is always thanks. We would also like to express our appreciation to the Hungarian nurses, who are the pillars of the health care system, one of the most important actors, who do a great deal of work every day in honor, humanely, to ensure the health and healing of the Hungarian people. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Therefore, it is important that we pay due attention to them and their environment. One of the significant measures and, let's say, the results of the wage increase for healthcare workers started in 2016 and is far from completed. In the case of qualified specialists and hospital pharmacists, wage increases took place in two steps. From 1 September 2016, their basic wage increased by HUF 107 thousand gross and then by HUF 100 thousand gross as of 1 November 2017. The basic salary of non-educated doctors increased by HUF 50,000 in 2017. Doctors' basic wages increased on average by 56.8 percent in the period 2016-17. There were four stages of wage increases at the thesis. Their wages increased by nearly 27 percent from 1 September 2016, by 12% from 1 November 2017 and by 8 percent from 1 January 2018. On the basis of the wage agreement, the upcoming wage increase will now take place on 1 July 2019. Thanks to the multi-stage wage increase, the workers' wages increase by 65.5 percent on average in the period 2016-2019. Wage increases will continue in 2019, i.e. again this year, as last year we set the rate and schedule of wage increases for health professionals for the next four years, as well as the inclusion of women in the labour pay table, which I personally believe is a huge step forward. According to this, this four-step wage increase will result in an increase of 8 percent this year, 14 percent next January, 20 percent in November and a further 30 percent in 2022. Thus, only for the next three years will the rate of wage increase be 72 percent. The Fidesz-KDNP and the government recognise and appreciate the sacrifice of health workers, and our aim is to show a fair wage for their performance. On the other hand, the Socialists, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, wanted to make healthcare pay [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But isn't it now? Zsolt Gréczy: Are we not paying now?]] One month's wages were taken from employees and lower-income healthcare workers were forced into the trap of foreign exchange loans. [[Intercom from the benches of opposition parties: What you introduced...]] We also consider working conditions to be important, so there may have been unprecedented hospital renovations in recent years [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] which will continue, especially with regard to the capital city. In the next period, the government also spends 8.5 billion forints on renovation, comfort and construction of new nursing homes. We can see that, in recent times, we have done everything in our power to help health workers, but this is not a closed process, and we must continue on the road. And you can go on this road if you do not have to spend these resources for purposes to which the Hungarian people have already said no. We see that more money is already spent on immigrants in some regions of Germany than on health care. We see how much the budget is burdened by the supply of migrants in some EU Member States in the north and west. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Really bad Germany! I wonder why the Hungarian citizens are going there!]] In the branches of the Brussels bureaucrats, and even on the table, there are plans that they want to force on us. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Soros!]] The migrant visa, the compulsory quota, the increase in the budget of immigration organisations with Hungarian taxpayers' money, or the financial penalty of countries rejecting migration is all the existing proposals of pro-immigration. They want us not to spend the budget money on Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian children, but they expect us to join the pro-immigration line. This is the stakes of the European Parliament elections. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What about the nurses?]] We want to make a change in Brussels policy, put more emphasis on protecting our borders, our culture, our customs and our existing achievements, and we want to live in a strong European community based on the cooperation of equal nations. There are two choices: the Hungarian pro-immigration opposition, who has nothing to say about the list of Fidesz-KDNP, who puts the interests of Hungarian people and Hungary first. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I wish religious light music had been better. Lajos Rig: How did Zsuzsa Kossuth get to this point? Dr. Agnes Vadai: Bravo!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-19-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. [[A voice from the opposition side: Oh!]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-02-19-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you for remembering today's work and recognising the work that nurses do in Hungary. I really think it should be a compliment to their work. We've heard a lot of reports in the last few days or even today with nurses, and a lot of people have said that not only their health activities, but that sometimes they sit down with a patient, hold their hands for a minute, often they see that they are more conducive to healing, humanity, attention, attention than much else. [[9.50]] Therefore, different governments have given different awards to nurses for their activities. Governments of current opposition parties prior to 2010 assessed this work with dismissals when 6,000 health workers were laid off, while those who stayed there had their wages reduced [[Zsolt Gréczy: 50 percent raise, Bence, why are you lying?]] since a month's wages were taken from all the nurses in Hungary in 2008-2009. [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] On the other hand, after 2010, we tried to increase the wages of the workers here. If you look at the salary increase of nurses between 2016 and 2019, which will be achieved up to this year, 65.5 percent, and if you look at the overall increase in wages in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, according to the wage increases already decided by the government, then the nurses in Hungary can expect a 72 percent increase in wages. We have tried to ensure that we can increase the wages of nurses to a noticeable extent. There is also some positive impact in the various health statistics, as not only doctors have radical reductions in applications for work permits abroad, there we can talk about a 60% decrease, but there is also a one-third reduction in the number of nurses seeking permission to work abroad. It is also important for us that nurses and nurses can live in the right conditions, so the government decided on a HUF 8.5 billion program, we will renovate nurses' hostels for HUF 8.5 billion, modernise them, and create new nursing homes and nursing homes. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Will Lőrinc Ripper build them?]] And in addition, it is important for replacements to support as many as possible in career choices to choose a nursing career, as opposed to our predecessors who did not deal with it, because they only dealt with the business of health care and sought privatisation. On the other hand, we want as many well-trained nurses as possible in public-funded health care, so we have created a scholarship for career selection from HUF 4.4 billion. Those who reach a study average of at least 3 in a secondary institution can receive a net grant of HUF 40,000 per month, thus helping 3200 students to study as nurses. Those who wish to receive a higher education as a nurse can expect a Michalicza scholarship of between 320 and 640 thousand forints every six months. About 2 billion forints per year are available to work as many nurses as possible in Hungarian hospitals who have completed higher education. The Member discussed the risks of immigration in relation to health. Indeed, we can see that in Europe's countries where immigration is very high, health care also has to deal with completely different tasks than health care for people who have lived there for generations, and this also means a great deal of extra expenditure. If we look at the WHO's latest report, it says that, for example, the number of measles diseases and cases has tripled in Europe since the 2015 immigration wave. And while we used to get used to the fact that when we talk about measles, Balkan countries come up as the most vulnerable countries in Europe, today this is not just the case, because, in addition to the Balkan countries, France and Italy too [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Joined among the five most infected countries. But not only in the case of measles, we can talk about tripleting, but also 140 percent increase in the diagnosis of infectious and parasites-borne diseases, according to Eurostat data. It is not the Balkan countries that are at the forefront, but Italy and Germany, so they have appeared in immigration countries or immigration fronts. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's not that, it's the anti-vaccinations.]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Joined among the five most infected countries. But not only in the case of measles, we can talk about tripleting, but also 140 percent increase in the diagnosis of infectious and parasites-borne diseases, according to Eurostat data. It is not the Balkan countries that are at the forefront, but Italy and Germany, so they have appeared in immigration or immigration front countries (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It is not because of that, but because of the anti-vaccinations!) mostly these new diseases. They would obviously want to distribute these quotas across Europe. But if we look at the data of the Robert Koch Institute in Germany, we can see that (Dr. Ágnes Vadai intervenes.) that the number of people infected with hepatitis B has increased by 300 percent since the migrant wave, but syphilis infections, malaria infections, tuberculosis have doubled. Everyone can also decide in the area of health that the additional resource [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what we have provided for the institutions and the workers there, will continue to serve the patients who were there. [[The president's ringing again.]] or other infectious diseases [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Secretary of State can't hear you, Mr. President. One more time.]] and spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money on health challenges. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-26	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga, from the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-19-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fidesz just waited for the 2010 Autumn Municipal Election, then immediately changed the strike law in Hungary, under the cover of the night, at 2:30 p.m. at night. In practice, it has reduced the right of Hungarian workers to strike at a level that is almost impossible in some sectors. It is no wonder that after 2010 there were much fewer strikes in the country than before. They didn't talk about it in their election program, they tricked Hungarian workers and Hungarian people. Then, in 2012, the new labour code that you adopted came into force, which you often present as the foundation for a flexible labour market. Yes, they have made flexible exploitation of Hungarian workers, Hungarian workers. They have squandered their rights, they have violated trade union rights, they have dismantled Hungarian employees' interests, they have clearly declared war on Hungarian workers. Here and there were a number of things happening in the Parliament when the debate on this legislation took place. There were not many members of the Fidesz Parliament, several opposition representatives, and many of the MSZP factions were here, we were here, we argued, we tabled some 800 amendments; just as in December, they were swept off, only one was not accepted. One-sidedly, anti-workers have adopted the new Labour Code, which provides the basis for what multinationals, big companies, often your strategic partners can do in the field of exploitation of workers in Hungary today. Then we arrived last November, December, when hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers were made incredibly vulnerable in an unprecedented, outrageous way. It is this slave law that actually allows Hungarian multinationals, larger companies, and often their strategic partners to commit Hungarian workers to up to 400 overtimes. You may think that this is not an obligation, but consider that in a small town in East Hungary, where there is only one multi-company employer, if you put the employee's modified employment contract on the table, what kind of volunteering is it that he can say no to. Where do you go to work if you don't want to do this 400-hour overtime? So in this way, it is not voluntary overwork, it is a slogan in your media machine, it is not so, it is clearly an anti-worker proposal, and this proposal further undermines trade union rights. No wonder there are demonstrations in the country, no wonder there are a lot of protests, even in the countryside, thousands of county seats, so that's what happened in Miskolc. Many have reported that they do not apply the slave law, but unfortunately, there are bad examples. This is an example that my fellow Members have discussed here in relation to the Esztergom example, Suzuki, where you should take action against a strategic partner in order to protect Hungarian workers' rights and protect trade union rights. That is what we are talking about here, honourable Members, honourable members of the government, that is their task, their moral duty. Instead, they are playing a political charade here; instead of thanking the opposition representatives for showing a decisive action yesterday in Esztergom, they have no word about Suzuki, they do not protect Hungarian workers. But this is what happens in Miskolc, where a multi-company company has given its employees the opportunity to strike between pallet pens. No chairs, no tables, employees say there are at least ten points of damage to the strike laws you have narrowed down. Amazing, outrageous! Your job is to act in the interests of Hungarian workers, Hungarian trade union licenses. Recently, a few years ago, we saw you on giant posters: If you come to Hungary, you must respect our culture! The Hungarian diverse culture includes wide range of employee protection, trade union licenses, working licenses. We need to protect these licenses at last, like with multi-company companies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] even against your strategic partners. Thank you, Mr. President. [[10.00]]
u2019-02-19-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition representatives. Márton Gyöngyösi to Dr. László Varga: Feel honored! Peter Ungár: Yes!]]
u2019-02-19-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What has been done in this speech, in the last few days and in the last few weeks, is a very good indicator of what is wrong with the MSZP. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] I am not even thinking about your heroic struggle with Hungarian grammar, where the word "to continue" is elipsilonos; but I do not want to ride on yesterday's spelling error [[Márton Gyöngyösi: The word elipsilonos, the word "suffering" is accurate! Intercoms from the opposition.]] These things happen, say, in the first grade. So the problem isn't that the MSZP thinks otherwise, you want something other than government parties. [[A statement from the opposition.]] in the case of opposition parties, this is often part of the job description, but the problem is that Hungarians are misled. 'Cause in the last few weeks, it turns out that what you said about the overtime bill is a lie. They lied about the payment, they lied about the number of working days, and they lied about volunteering, they said they weren't volunteering. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] It's a net lie, and it's very instructive to hear your fake comedy yesterday: you've come up and gone to protest over the overtime bill to a company where you didn't live with the overtime, not at all. By the way... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: In return, the union leader was fired! Intercoms from the opposition.]] By the way, they continued the extremely arrogant practice of showing up at various institutions and companies and waving their representatives' credentials [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The way you did it, Congressman, and they expect everyone to get whacked. Do not expect public administration or Hungarian companies to adapt their work to opposition ideas. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: That's how democracy works!]] For its part, the government is committed to raising wages [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's what we saw! That's why wages are falling!]] and that is why employers' taxes will continue to decline this year. [[Constant intervention from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] You didn't support this. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not the drop in wages!]] they did not support or support the special tax on multinationals, not to mention the fact that the left hand threw away a significant part of the Hungarian industry to large foreign companies. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Soros! Soros! Brussels!]] We still feel the effect of this. They put hundreds of thousands on the street, and I could continue the line. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Now the Post is sending 300 people, what about them?!]] By the way, the Code of Work has been amended many times, and you yelled the same every time it was changed, but the result is known: more than 700 thousand new jobs. So everyone can see that the Code of Work, the amendment of it, is just an excuse for a fight, it's all part of their election campaign. [[Péter Ungár: Fidesz doesn't do that, ah!]] And speaking of an election campaign, [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] If it's an election campaign, you guys held a convention this weekend, and on this jamboro, Frans Timmermans was the big stage performer. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I.m not Fidesz, I.m the people!]] It is about the politician who is the top candidate for immigration support forces. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: And then Manfred Weber what?!]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] If it's an election campaign, you guys held a convention this weekend, and on this jamboro, Frans Timmermans was the big stage performer. (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I, m not Fidesz, I, m the people!) It is about the politician who is the top candidate for immigration support forces. (Dr. Agnes Vadai: And then Manfred Weber what? ! He is the one who says that all societies will be diverse in the future, and that Central European countries need to adapt and get used to it. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) So we are dealing with the number one lobby of open society, who is completely unaware whether Hungarians live in the Carpathian Basin in a hundred years or not. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I am bringing this here, Your Honour, because this man was your guest of honor at your convention. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Can we join the Csepelians? István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] He is now your main ally, and from this point of view it is very instructive that the opposition parties joined forces yesterday, because everyone knows that every opposition party has enrolled in the immigration support club. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Soros! Soros!]] the fact is that each opposition party is pro-immigration. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You are mercenaries! Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right! Say it a lot, and you'll believe it.]] It's good to know that a few weeks before the European election. And there's another nasty story. [[Péter Ungár: Na!]] Honourable MSZP Members, this is their romance with Jobbik. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] 'Cause I didn't... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not the juicy parts, not the rest.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Because I do... (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Just the juicy parts, not the rest!) ... after all... (Intercoms from the opposition. )... after all, the MSZP is the party that has been speaking from the opposition for years. ) he produced the speeches on the assembly line, the announcements with a feeling so far and no further, and now he is talking about a list, a common list and cooperation between Ágnes Kunhalmi, István Ujhelyi and Mr Bertalan Tóth. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Let me ask you, is it now acceptable to desecrate the Holocaust Monument or boast that one of the Members has struck a Jewish woman? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Because I do... (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Just the juicy parts, not the rest!) ... after all... (Intercoms from the opposition. )... after all, the MSZP is the party that has been speaking from the opposition for years. ) he produced the speeches on the assembly line, the announcements with a feeling so far and no further, and now he is talking about a list, a common list and cooperation between Ágnes Kunhalmi, István Ujhelyi and Mr Bertalan Tóth. (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea interrupts.) Let me ask you, is it now acceptable to desecrate the Holocaust Monument or boast that one of the Members has struck a Jewish woman? (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) Where are they? (Intercoms from the opposition. ) Where are their famous democratic principles, the protection of dignity? Where are they? ! Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Vada! As I recall, you picked up a yellow star a few years ago when you had to protest for an anti-Semitic statement, many of you here protested with a yellow star. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It was an act!]] Where are the yellow stars now? [[Péter Ungár: Are you reading this from the Moving World? Zsolt Gréczy intervenes. Intercoms from the opposition.]] Where are they? I see all kinds of badges, I see all kinds of badges. [[Constant intervention from the opposition.]] But I can't see the yellow stars, I can't see the objection. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Do you want to put the yellow star out?!]] Honourable Congressman... [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] You once said that you once said that fascism is a virus [[Constant intervention from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] And Jobbik is the host of the virus. Now there are two possible cases, two possible cases: either the virus disappeared or your principles. I suspect the latter. Thank you for listening. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett is arriving in the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Wind Bernadett, you're the virus owners. Csaba Dömötör and Dr. Balázs Orbán to Dr. Bernadett Wind: Good morning. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Good morning to you, too.]] Dear Parliament, Representative László Böröcz applied for a pre-meeting speech [[Intercoms from the opposition: Let's hear it! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Soros!]] Fidesz Group [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] The title of current affairs. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) My fellow Members, I think that we have heard the speakers of all the groups, please do so now. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We'll listen.]] Congresswoman, I do not wish to engage in another debate with you. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm not arguing with you.]] I have to warn you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I must warn you, Congresswoman, first warning. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Remind me again.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-02-19-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Agnes Vadai, if you'd like to speak freely during my speech, if that's any consolation, I don't mind. [[Péter Ungár: It calms me down! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I care what you say! I know exactly what you're going to talk about.]] Fidesz-KDNP representatives consistently reject the pro-immigration plans in Brussels. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Agnes Vadai: I told you! I told you so!]] It is clear that the tables of Brussels bureaucrats are once again full of plans according to the Soros plan. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition ranks.]] I would make Europe an immigrant continent. [[Constant intervention from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Every time they fail to make a suggestion, they make new ones or bring them back in a new robe. These include weakening the rights of border protection, introducing a migrant visa, increasing support for Soros organisations assisting migration or punishing non-immigration countries by financial or administrative means. The compulsory resettlement quota has been tried several times to force Member States, so far unsuccessfully, but it also seems that the pro-immigration elite in Brussels does not want to abandon this plan. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Like Weber! Peter Ungár: Yeah, like Manfred Weber!]] In spite of the rejection of several Member States, despite the rejection of us Hungarians in the most participatory referendum of all time, Brussels ignores this and ignores the views of the people. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition ranks. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I.m not Fidesz, I.m the people! The president's ringing the bell.]] Frans Timmermans, the Socialist Vice-President of the European Commission, is the European Socialist Party's peak this weekend at the MSZP Congress and has once again given faith in the introduction of mandatory quotas. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Péter Hoppál: Get a spelling dictionary! Dr. Pál Völner: We should cry on this!]] The MSZP applauded the pro-immigration politician, György Soros's confidant [[Intercoms from the opposition: Uh-oh! Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] and apparently assisted the bright-eyed socialist leader, who came and told them what they should think about the world. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] Timmermans and his pro-immigration friends are so concerned about the European Parliament's election victory that they are willing to accept and acknowledge that the Hungarian socialists have joined forces with the anti-Semitic Jobbik. Extremely... [[Intercoms from the opposition: Na! Dr. Wind Bernadett, it's outrageous. Márton Gyöngyösi: If you say so much...! Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] It is extremely false that the pro-immigration leader dissociating from the extreme right did not rule him out in words. [[Bence of Turdai: You are the far right!]] so that the Hungarian socialists cooperate with the Jewish, Gypsyist Jobbik so that the pro-immigration party can obtain as many votes as possible in the elections to the European Parliament. [[Continued intervention and awareness among the opposition.]] Timmermans had no objection to that. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Martin Gyöngyösi: Don't let yourself get distracted.]] that the guest of honor of the MSZP Congress was Gergely Christmas, who previously stated clearly and clearly in an interview that in his firm opinion it was not Nazism to list Jews. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And you still have two and a half minutes! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let's talk more about MSZP. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We'll have a convention soon, you're welcome to talk about it.]] You can see that the pro-immigration left would like to achieve a result in the elections to the European Parliament, which leaves the majority of the pro-immigration forces in the European Parliament, in which their loyal allies are the Hungarian left-wing parties. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The People's Party!]] The stakes of the European Parliament elections in May are whether we can stop the pro-immigration forces led by Timmermans. [[A statement from the opposition: You will vote again on a committee that must be hated! A statement from the opposition: Long live Weber! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Sorosist opposition party!]] But not all milk seems to be in the houses of opposition parties, as there are very many irregularities in their operation. [[Continued intervention in opposition ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] And there's a lot of internal tension. Think of the socialists. [[Péter Ungár: Think! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I thought so! Guess who I was thinking of?!]] It was recently learned from their President of Pest County that it was already announced in 2016 that there was a crime of fiscal fraud in the party. The then leadership covered the case with Gyula Molnár and Bertalan Tóth. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What about migrants? Why don't you talk about that?]] The socialists also failed to accept the annual budget, as there were problems of accounting. [[10.10]] In the case of Momentum and Dialogue, the State Audit Office indicated [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Another independent institution! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Oh, Peter Polt!]] I don't think we've been able to account for the election money. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, due to fiscal fraud, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has launched an investigation. The Momentum was so outraged at the case that shortly thereafter their financial manager resigned. The LMP was not avoided either, because yesterday we voted on Márta Demeter, who failed the National Security Review. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Or not! Dr. Wind Bernadett: Sorry, so am I. Zsolt Gréczy: Why don't you check Orbán...?]] In Jobbik, too, there are opportunities for financial gain. It turns out that the late resignation of Szávay and Staudt to the parliamentary faction meant nearly HUF 10 million of state resources, not to mention the salaries and other benefits of the two representatives. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Don't prejudicate!]] He tells all about Jobbik that István Szávay, who boasts of beating the Jewish woman, is also an anti-Semitic politician in the name of János Bencsik. [[Bence Tordai: The Fidelitas' swing video... announcements in the ranks of opposition parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Nothing on DK? We don't matter anymore? The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian opposition politicians in many elections last year [[Peter Ungár: It's over! Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's time, Mr. President. The president's ringing the bell.]] they have not been trusted by voters, and they are trying to hide their lack of visions and thinking by their increasingly violent and primitive actions. Instead of responding to provocation, the governing parties make decisions [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] which are in Hungary's interest, such as strengthening the economy, protecting families and promoting childbearing measures. [[Continued intervention in opposition parties.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Great applause and yelling in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2019-02-19-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Dear Enemy! Before you get too carried away, I'll inform you that you're in the Parliament building. [[Gergely Harvestó: Shouldn't you be happy?]] Dear Parliament, I ask you that, as the pro-government representatives have listened to opposition representatives, [[Gergely Harvesto: They're not here, that's why! It's easy...]] Please do this. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-02-19-33	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We can't hear you! Louder! Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties: We hear nothing, Mr President.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me begin by saying that in recent months, there has been a consultation on the protection of families, the results of which have been made public by the government, and the decisions resulting from it. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: But that's not what he was talking about! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You got the wrong paper!]] The government has announced a 7-point action plan that will help hundreds of thousands of people from young couples to grandparents. I do not want to talk about the details of the measures. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's better! Gergely Harvester: Because they are not!]] I'm talking about the fact that after the announcement, this family protection operation has been raided all over the world. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Respond to Böröcz! The poor man's self-confidence has been compromised. Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties: Anti-fraud action...]] And if we take a good look at who attacked this family protection operation, we see that those who do not want more immigration. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] They used arguments like '30s, racism, or the fact that we should look at how many people are born in Africa. [[Péter Ungár: Did László Bogár say that on Echo TV...? He used to say things like that.]] This is the type of criticism that has come upon the government and Hungary. One thing can be seen from these attacks: those who would open the borders of Europe will not care whether Hungarians live here in the Carpathian Basin or not in a hundred years' time. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: What about the Kuns? Zsolt Gréczy: A million people have left the Carpathian Basin!]] They also care about whether Europe's Christian culture remains and whether we can maintain our own security. This is where family policy issues and immigration issues come together. We want to spend more money on families living here. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: To the Ripper family, the Orbán family, the Garancsi family...]] And they're here for immigration. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] This idea also has serious bridge posts in the Brussels institutions and between left-wing parties. There is another aspect of migration issues. Mr. Frans Timmermans was in town. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Iåm not Fidesz. I'm the people.]] He's the top candidate for pro-immigration camp. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] In spite of yelling, you invited him to your convention, and we also saw that since he was invited to this man, he was the guest of honor, we can rightly say that he is the thought sponsor of the opposition camp. Why else would he be invited? Why was he invited then? [[Péter Ungár: I think that if you are invited to the National Assembly, Timmermans will perform here as well.]] Mr Timmermans is not only known to attack Hungary in virtually autopilot mode [[Péter Ungár: The Commission voted in favour of Timmermans... they voted in favour of the Commission!]] but it's also worth knowing [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Say Soros!]] He believes that diversity is the fate of humanity, an open society, and that Eastern Europeans will get used to it. It's not surprising that he wants a resettlement quota. [[Péter Ungár: The resettlement quota was supported by your party family, and you did.]] And he's very opposed to the border lock. He's your candidate. No matter what they say, he's your candidate. And what does Mr Timmermans think of Christian values? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well, many of those benches could refer to him about the Christian value if they were telling the truth...]] He said that Hungary and Poland recall a past golden age that never existed, and the promised future will never come. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] These are the thoughts of Mr Timmermans, the main lobbyist of open society. They are clear, understandable, but very dangerous; they are dangerous because these thoughts are being put into practice by various institutions in Brussels. Migration card, migrant visa, conversion of border protection rights by taking them away from the Member States [[Zsolt Gréczy: You just voted for it!]] resettlement quota, more money for activists who support immigration [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, land policy.]] less countries that oppose immigration [[Zsolt Gréczy: How many thousand migrants have you brought in? Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I want to know about Pharaon and your Russian friends.]] These plans are now being implemented. Since Mr Timmermans, as a pro-immigration candidate, will continue to campaign for open society in the coming weeks, that alone is enough reason for the government to inform the Hungarians about the plans to encourage immigration on the agenda. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Do you have the nerve to migrant here?]] Too many and too clearly the Hungarians have expressed their views in order to wander away and not act now, during the most important period. We will stand up for Hungary. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No! There's nothing wrong with that.]] Even though opposition representatives are shouting here, regardless of how the opposition parties are going against the Hungarians' will, we see that everyone has subscribed to the pro-immigration list, so you will have to account for it to your electorate. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We're traitors, aren't we? You always say that!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-34	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: One minute less!]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's too bad. Péter Ungár: Let's go again! Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] A bill on the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation, the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation and the Corvinus University of Budapest, and the 2011 CCIV on National Higher Education. joint general debate on the draft law amending the law until closure. Government referral T/4514. and T/4516. available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, the author of the bill. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-02-19-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to ask your attention in the next few minutes on a large-scale government investment in Hungary's competitiveness. Hungary's most important resource is the knowledge and innovative spirit of the Hungarian people. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's why you steal it.]] The responsibility for organising the Hungarian education, science and innovation system is therefore of paramount importance in the multifaceted role of the government. The quality of our lives is determined by the quality of our communities' ability to transfer existing knowledge. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We can see that!]] to discover new knowledge and apply it. I think that there is a common understanding that the ability of companies operating in Hungary to raise knowledge and innovate is a key factor in the competitiveness of our economy. Hungary can be a strong country if it is able to join international value chains with its knowledge and talent. However, the importance of the subject goes beyond the slick economic aspects. To a large extent, keeping a country is determined by what knowledge it can give the world. A country, the foundation of a nation's life, is a renewalal skill that is clearly linked to its ability to raise creative and curious people. Dear Parliament, In recent years, the Hungarian government has demonstrated not only its commitment to higher education in words. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's what we saw!]] Higher education is a very complex system whose successful functioning depends on a number of different factors. [[Gergely Harvest: What you absolutely don't understand.]] In recent years, the government's strategy "Training in Higher Education" has set out the basic directions for the development of a modern higher education system, capable of using resources efficiently and efficiently, designed by the economy and society towards universities. In this context, for example, the consolidation of the institutional network has taken place [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You stole it.]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You stole it.]] or aimed at strengthening the research activities of higher education institutions (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You stole it.) the publication of thematic support programmes. In addition to these issues concerning the whole institutional system, the government has also set itself the goal of ensuring that universities as well as organisations function as well. [[10.20]] Indeed, no matter how committed a country is to higher education, it will always be scarce, so how well they work, i.e. effectively and effectively, the institutions themselves that perform the tasks of higher education. In this effort, the government introduced the Chancellor's system in state-owned institutions, the results of which I believe we can all see. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We see it!]] Today Hungarian higher education is financially stable, academic excellence is increasingly effective management [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Academy! They're beating up the Hungarian Academy of Sciences!]] serve. In addition, in recent years, we have understood the economic processes of higher education institutions, the cost structure, which is absolutely necessary for the next step, in order to make a significant change in structure. After creating stability, of course, the next step in improving the functioning of Hungarian higher education institutions is to make the environment in which they must operate more flexible and freer, because real performance can be created if we give responsibility and opportunity to those who are able to do so. Today, the university has to compete globally, participate in a global competition for students, teachers, researchers and research resources. It therefore needs to be able to plan its finances strategically, to adapt its organisational framework and human resources policy to the specifics and competitive positions of its field, and to obtain the products and services necessary for its operation relatively simply. The environment surrounding the Hungarian universities now creates many obstacles that make it difficult for them to function effectively. [[Gergely Harvesto: All those obstacles are because of you!]] For this reason, the government has decided to start the process where most of these obstacles will be removed and Hungarian universities will be able to enter a new career. Of course, such a large-scale transformation process is not worth starting at the same time in the whole sector, but it is necessary to define the institutions or institutions that are best suited to it. [[Gergely Harvesto: Most of the time, you can steal it!]] To successfully adapt to such a fundamental change and create the possibility of renewal for them. The government first selected the Corvinus University of Budapest to operate in a new model. The Corvinus University of Budapest is one of the best universities in the country already today and I believe that it has all the capacity to move further towards the world class. He has a close and extensive relationship with the business world, and his teachers and students have formed a strong and open community. Its financial operation has been exemplary, and has made significant improvements in recent years. Corvinus is a ready and capable university, which can count on the trust and support of its economic and social partners. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to briefly summarise the substance of the Government's proposal. The government's aim is to ensure that by 2030 the Corvinus University of Budapest will be one of Europe's 100 best universities in the world, in the field of economic and social sciences. We want the Corvinus University to give its students the knowledge that they can use to hold their place all over the world. The government is ready to contribute to this with a very serious investment, with an investment in the future of young people committed to the university and through it to the economy and society. According to the government, it is necessary for the Corvinus University of Budapest to operate in a new model. The essence of the model is that the State will hand over the maintenance rights of Corvinus University on 1 July 2019 to a foundation specifically set up for this purpose. The Foundation shall make available to the Foundation an amount of wealth or, as they say, an endowment that ensures the long-term sustainable functioning and autonomy of the university. After the maintenance change, the Corvinus University of Budapest will be a public-service higher education institution with foundation. This will include non-state universities in the list of universities operating in Hungary. The government therefore decided to initiate the establishment of the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation. The aim of the Foundation is to provide educational institutions, in particular for the exercise of the right of founders and maintainers of the Corvinus University of Budapest, the conditions of its operation and its institutional development objectives, in order to manage the assets assigned by the founder in the framework of its economic activities and the assets provided by the members of the Foundation. The Foundation also supports educational, scientific, research, student, student, educator, researcher and teacher excellence in order to develop the economic, social and international relations of Hungarian higher education, providing support based on necessity and running talent programs. The government provides MOL and Richter with a 10-10 percent share package of two Hungarian strategic companies, from which they will be able to support the university. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] An important guarantee about the founder's fortune is that the foundation cannot sell this portion of the property, of course it can use the return of the property only for purpose. The Foundation will be set up as a trust fund. This means that the founding Hungarian State will have the opportunity to transfer the founding rights to the Board of Trustees of the Foundation. With this opportunity, the government believes that the state will also take advantage of it, so we want to ensure that the foundation and through it the university's freedom of operation are complete. The government's proposal also settles material issues related to the university's transformation. The state movable and real estate assets currently managed by the university will be owned by the Corvinus University of Budapest from 1 July 2019. The proposal sets out strong guarantee elements in the context of the asset allocation, on which I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Parliament. On the one hand, with regard to the priority national monument protection building in Fővám tér, it is particularly important that the building is acquired by the university under complete and permanent disposal and load ban, its consistency and value need to be maintained continuously, as the university has done so far. On the other hand, in relation to additional real estate, the university may conduct asset management, the basic principle of which is to exploit real estate for the purposes of its public use, by reinvesting the proceeds in infrastructure development in support of the core activity in the event of their sale, i.e. they cannot be used for current operating costs. In order to eliminate an advantage to the State and the University, the shares of a company that owns a private property in Czuczor Street, built in a PPP structure, currently owned by the Hungarian State, are also operated in this property by the Corvinus University Building C. The Corvinus University of Budapest, with the support of the Hungarian State, buys and owns the shares. Dear Parliament, It is also important to inform you about how the planned changes affect university workers and students. The proposal provides that, after the maintenance change, the university will in all respects become a full successor to the university before the maintenance change, i.e. full legal and organisational continuity. This also covers the relationship between students and the employment of workers. With the transformation of Corvinus University, the employees of the university currently employed as civil servants will be given a new status, and they will continue to work in employment under the Labour Code. [[Gergely Harvester: The 400 hours are coming!]] Fixed-term civil servant relationships will transform into fixed-term employment relationships, permanent civil servant relationships into fixed-term work relationships. The bill submitted by the government also contains elements that help this transition. The fundamental stability of university work cannot be compromised, but with this change, the university will be able to pursue a human resources policy that better serves its objectives. It is important to talk about the most important citizens of the university, the students. First of all, it should be pointed out that the relationship between the current university students is not affected by the changes, that all students can complete their studies in the form of funding and in the educational programme in which they began. It is also of particular importance that the government remains committed to accessible higher education, and the university is also a partner in this commitment. In this context, the Corvinus Scholarship Programme will be launched, which will enable Corvinus to learn free of charge for students of about the same magnitude as those who are studying today on Corvinus with a state scholarship. The government contributes to this by initiating with the bill the possibility that students will be able to register for the Corvinus Scholarship Programme through the central recruitment system, which also means that they will hardly be able to see changes from the point of view of admission. In other respects, of course, we hope that there will be very valuable, positive changes at Corvinus University, which are focused on students. It is also important to note that, in accordance with the National Higher Education Act, the broad student self-government will continue to exist at the Corvinus University. Dear Parliament, In Hungarian public life, autonomy and especially university autonomy are often mentioned. The autonomy of universities is laid down in the Fundamental Law, which is not different from or partly derived from the implementation of the basic principle of the current proposal. I believe that the new model of the Corvinus University of Budapest will result in an increase in university autonomy. The state gives the starting conditions, but then gives the foundation the opportunity as a maintainer and the university as an organization and community, together with the responsibility. The foundation has financial and strategic responsibility, and the university has responsibility for science and teaching. It is also important to mention that the proposal also provides for some changes that are not directly related to the Corvinus University of Budapest, but apply to non-State universities in general. The aim of these is to enable Hungarian universities to operate as flexible and tailored as possible to their own goals and, if they see fit, to bring international good practices into their operation. The proposal gives non-state universities greater freedom than ever to develop their internal operating structures and management systems. [[10.30]] Dear Parliament, Hungary has established the basis for stable, safe and long-term development in recent years. The next few years will be the task of further strengthening competitiveness, an important element of which is world-class higher education in economic and social sciences. A competitive economy and a state are not prepared, without the leaders of time and innovative businesses. Our culture and communities cannot develop without a multitude of people ready for professional organizing work. Hungary also needs an internationally outstanding university, which is an elite serving its community as a prestigious national institution, capable of performance-oriented and world-class results; it is increasingly involved in regional elite training, contributing to the spiritual renewal of Central Europe; it is able to keep the most talented members of the young Hungarian generations at home; it can also appear as a symbol of Hungary's cultural, scientific and moral strength. The new model of the Corvinus University of Budapest, I believe, can lead to the establishment of such an institution capable of achieving the world class. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the government in this enterprise. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-36	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak in today's joint general debate. If Mr Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President István Hiller should be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the motion. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, There will now be speaker speeches in a 30-30-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-02-19-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It seems to me that this proposal is a completely new and unical thing, although, if we look at what the strategy "Change in Higher Education" contains, which can otherwise be looked back from the then Commission or Parliamentary Protocols, the opposition did not object, but said that a number of forward-looking elements are already being formulated in the direction of how we can make Hungarian higher education more flexible and more competitive, adapted to the challenges of the age. This strategy has also included the need to increase the capacity of doctoral courses. I would just like to remind this House that not too long ago, a few months ago, Parliament voted on this, and this has happened, so it is clear that these things are taking place step by step, and that we have come to the stage where we are trying to bring the university itself closer to this area, essentially to make it an active player in financial and economic realities. This is linked to the proposals on how and how your maintenance issue should develop, with the issue of asset allocation and, as appropriate, the technical amendment of the Higher Education Act, which requires that the change of status with the maintenance change be transferred to the appropriate section. I would like to draw attention to the fact that many of the participants in Hungarian higher education, a number of its universities, have already become very active and important players in economic life over the last few years, with the result that I would refer here to the University of Győr, and obviously this is strongly linked to the presence of Audi, the higher education institution in Kecskemét, Debrecen, and the same is true of Miskolc, because we already have several higher education institutions where the link to economic life is closer than ever before, and this has significant financial implications. In other words, these universities have also been able to obtain a significant source of income while, in the meantime, the daily functioning of these universities is regulated and defined within the framework of the Public Finance Act, which, in turn, represent quite a lot of difficulties in communicating with economic operators, let us be honest. This is partly true from contracting to vouchering to allowing money payments, so, obviously, if we want to strengthen the process, and I think that this would be necessary to expand the source of higher education, and this source should come from the economic and market sector, then higher education institutions should also be made more flexible towards the world of the market, and it is clearly worth doing what we can first to try and see if this can work well. I just want to remind you that at the time of the Ministership of Bálint Magyar, when the Balliberian majority of the time decided to introduce the Bologna system in one blow, without knowing exactly what it would mean, instead of trying it at one or two universities, when there was such a proposal, it was done in many places in the Germans, it was tried first, no, it was generated here, everywhere, in all the institutions immediately, in one stroke, and we saw the result: in many areas there were serious damage. So it is better to do the first thing to see if a major change works in a given case, and what experience it has. From this point of view, Corvinus University, which has been the most open to the market and most closely connected to this sphere, is, of course, offering a kind of ideal solution. If the experience here is positive, it is worth considering the direction in which this should be extended. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, during the next EU budget cycle, the university world should apply directly for EU funds. Again, this requires a much greater degree of flexibility compared to so far, not to mention the fact that the public procurement framework, which has otherwise been established in line with EU principles, can make a significant impact on today's university world. I'll give you a very simple example, and I think everyone will understand what this is about. In view of the fact that, in the case of universities, due to their scale, the general government law requires that there should be a convergence, today a Hungarian university cannot invite a Nobel Prize winner unless it also asks for two other offers; this is simply nonsense. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] So, in practice, if we are to achieve market competitiveness, we need to remove these types of administrative barriers from the system, and obviously, from this point of view, Corvinus' model could be a model tax in the future. Overall, I think that the asset allocation that will allow the university to operate in a smooth transition to a new maintainer seems entirely reassuring. If we look at the benefits, we see that the benefit is higher than the current source of support, and not to mention that the university's ability to attract capital and business relationships can be further expanded during the expansion of its other possibilities. I think it's worth experimenting with. By the way, I wish the university good luck with this responsible work of the Foundation's Board of Trustees during the new maintenance change, and I also wish that the intentions of Corvinus University to become one of the best universities in Europe and become one of the world's high-ranking universities will be confirmed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-39	[[He's commenting on the pulpit.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The upper street stadium and team of the Hungarian university world are being built. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: To do that, we had to go up there!]] This would have allowed the real owner of the property in the name of Lőrinc Mészáros to explain briefly what is being done here with the present bill. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Valuable speech! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Go outside if you don't like it.]] [[10.40]] But let's take a step back and talk about whether it is a good goal to develop Corvinus University with prominent foreign professors, foreign language trainings and foundations. At first glance, of course, because a university with a foundation reserve is obviously not from the devil. Why would I think he'd have the same fate as the Gun Academy? First of all, I would like to criticise the selection of the university a little here in connection with the Minister's exposé. After all, I understand that we want to try this at a university first and then consider extending it to the entire Hungarian university world. At the same time, I would also like to point out that if the position of Corvinus University in international rankings is one of the priorities, as this can also be well communicated to the wider public, which I understand, however, could be the subject of a separate discussion on how the Rankings are preparing, what methodology and what they actually show, but not the aim of this speech as a lead speaker is to provide a more serious scientific discussion in this regard. But what I would like to say is that Corvinus is a special university in the sense that it does not cover the training spectrum by far, but only provides students with a few courses, in fact, in an internationally recognised and high quality. At the same time, if I look at this amount of wealth that is included in this bill, and I compare it with the basic budget for all Hungarian universities and colleges, then I say that this is exactly the same as the stadium in Felcsút, that I put an incredible amount into a university, and I expect that this is not a big deal after that, let's say, in one of the rankings a major, let's say, into the 200. What does this mean for the Hungarian university world? I'd like to ask you with respect, Minister. After all, this merely means that one major in a university with as much money as the annual elementary budget of all Hungarian universities and colleges, slips, say, five years from now to the best 200 in the world. Hooray! And what does that mean for the Hungarian university sphere, which I believe is our responsibility, I believe? In addition, let us look at the plans for tuition training. I understand that really circumstantial scholarship system that Minister spoke of in his exposé. However, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that all international experience shows that tuition training has deterred certain poorer social groups from higher education. This can be balanced, supported by very, very sophisticated scholarship programmes, but the result will only be that, and if we think about the state of Hungarian society, this danger is extremely high from the point of view of Hungarian society, that students from the lower, poorer classes, but talented students, if they hear that there is a tuition, will not accept this type of training. In this connection, I would also like to refer to the fact that, because of the language examination criterion, this government will cause disaster in Hungarian higher education from 2020 onwards, by excluding those people who are also generally more poor, who cannot afford a private teacher and a special class to obtain the language exam that the regulation will require as a criterion. In general, Jobbik is concerned about the measures in which state-owned universities would be shifted to form of foundations or companies. The whole universe is also bleeding out, as the press reports daily that there are mass redundancies in major universities providing highly broad spectrum training, honourable Members. In particular, in the light of this, I consider this proposal to be extremely rescinded. It can be seen that the management of state-owned universities and colleges and the government's support system are counterproductive and anti-quality, as the veterinary horse of the state puts the public universities in a position with state decisions on the basis of the National University of Public Service and, on the other hand, the majority of the number of students determines the budget of the state universities. In addition, the introduction of the chancellor system severely limits the decision-making powers of the organizational units which are built according to academic logic. Jobbik believes that the chancellor system should be reviewed and that the funding of universities should include elements of education, research and maintenance, and not only the number of students should be taken into account here. Finally, I would like to explain that, in addition, this whole step is taking place in a social climate, Minister, where the Hungarian intellectuals are being seriously attacked and the worst Bolsheviks are being attacked, for example, at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] Here I would like to quote the opinion of the former Minister for Education of Fidesz, who said that Minister Palkovic has discussed in an invaluable tone with the leadership of the MTA. And I think it is typically Bolshevik method that someone, a responsible minister, does not lead the Academy in charge, but starts negotiations with the lower-level institutional directors, who want to play this vulnerable level of leadership against the elected academic leaders. Shame, shame, Minister. [[Uproar, noise in the pro-government benches.]] And ceterum censeo: Fidesz withdraws the slave law that eviscerates Hungarian workers. Thank you for your attention. [[Delight and applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-02-19-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of Parliament, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2019-02-19-41	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Minister started his expo with facts. Good, then let's point facts to facts. The fact is that since 2010 the quality of Hungarian education has deteriorated in all segments. Public education in the language of numbers can be proven to be of high quality, and then it fell. Compared to their previous results, the latest PISA survey has already produced significantly weaker numbers than it has been produced during your government. Vocational training is in ruins, to the extent that their own background calculations and background studies prove and advise them to make fundamental changes there because they are unable to meet the needs of the Hungarian labour market. There have been various experiments in higher education since 2010. So far, they've all failed, and now they're trying to make a model change. The reason we need a change of model is because the model that has been operated so far is clearly ineffective. The continuation of the facts can be explained by formal reasons. Of course, it is a government's own competence to be the author of a law, but now it is really here at the first third of the debate on the draft law, I just have to ask where the State Secretary responsible for higher education is. It is a little strange to me that we are talking about a university, a significant institution of Hungarian higher education, and although the author, as I said, the person appointed by the Prime Minister, I have no say in this, but it is somewhat obvious that the Minister represents the government as a whole. I'm the one who should be sitting in front of the head of the State Secretary for Higher Education, who, I see, isn't quite there. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] This is only to say that, if it is such a significant event, such a serious change of model, then why is the State Secretary of Higher Education not here. [[10.50]] I do not wish to dissect the internal disputes of this. Although you have mentioned my party's weekend congress several times, I would not turn that around, and for example, this internal debate was not discussed there. However, it is clear that when it comes to amending a Hungarian Higher Education Act or a Hungarian higher education institution or a new bill, the State Secretariat responsible for higher education could only be represented in some way. But as for further dissection of the facts, let's get to the point. I would like to look at the issue of changing models from three aspects; the first is content. The fact is that we have to say that there will be a university of significantly smaller numbers than today, the vast majority of which will pay tuition fees, and the staff of teachers will be significantly smaller than they are now. In Hungarian, the number of students of today's Corvinus University will decrease to a third, and some of the current teachers of Corvinus University may not be employed by the new institution. These people will simply be dismissed. The second, if the model described by the Minister is implemented from the point of view of the students, according to our background calculations, the tuition fee, not called tuition fees, will in some cases reach HUF 2 million every six months. With all due respect, let's keep the future students informed of this in good time. Today, in Hungarian higher education, the largest non-teaching tuition fee is held at the University of Medicine, including Semmelweisen, which is HUF 1 million 180 thousand. At this university, if these marginal conditions are being taught, they will continue to do so. In English, the tuition will be around HUF 2 million. Among the criteria that would allow the objective of being among the world's first hundred universities by 2030, there are obviously different lists. The best known is the so-called Shanghai list. The criteria of the Shanghai university list are quite clear, there are at least two, but more than two, Nobel Prize-winning instructors to teach there for at least one year at that university. At present, the international climate surrounding Hungarian higher education, let us remember that 110 internationally renowned institutions, research institutes, universities and thousands of professors protested against the expansion of the CEU, are not necessarily so tempting. Consequently, as we all know, there was an international conference on higher education, the leading speakers of which specifically said and resigned because of the current Hungarian relations and political relations, rather than teaching at a particular university. With regard to the economic fund, I have to say that the two sources indicated in the bill, one of which is the dividend paid by MOL and the dividend paid by Richter, can result in many things, but not stability. For example, while in 2017 it was 94 billion for MOL, in 2014 50. But not to think in chronological order that this is constantly growing, Richter paid in 2016 19.8, in 2017 12.07. So there's no way we can talk about a stable funding fund of any kind. Thirdly, it is the economic funds, and this must be mentioned, that it is not only the institution's level of content and education that can be taken into account, but also its stock of real estate. Here the bill is very ambiguous. As long as the main building of Corvinus, the building in Fővám Square, says that it is inalienable, the other institutions, the other properties, will not say this at all. For example, in the case of the so-called building C, which, by the way, is registered as Közraktár utca 4 in Hungarian: the modern building, which is then owned by the state, is not stated by the bill at all, that after the state has owned it, it is inalienable only to the so-called customs house, i.e. Fővám tér 7-9. Similarly, I would very much like to know that the 11th edition of the Convention on the Law on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of the People's Republic of China. district Mányoki út 9th building how can I know a number of institutions, even in Budapest, which have much bigger building problems than the University of Public Service has just acquired their campus. So what is the reason why a specific building of Corvinus is being used for a certain period of time for the purpose of the University of Public Service? The Public Interest Trust Foundation itself is indeed a new form that can't be said to be good or bad before testing, but it can only be said that it hasn't been that way before. However, what we do know is that the governance mechanism within the university is more than doubtful and continues fully the trend we have seen from your government during the most diverse periods of time. In order to make it clear to everyone, the Rector had to share with the Chancellor the power of a sovereign institution in previous times, and now the President will be introduced. According to the Hungarian proverbs, this is a lot even in a csárda, because the Hungarian proverb has only been able to put two boobs in a csárda. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] I've never heard of three boobs in a folk tale. It's not about the president's position to be introduced. It's about to be rector, it's about to become chancellor, it's about to become president. The thing is, he's going to be president so that the rector has even less say in things. It is not about reducing or limiting the power of the chancellor, but it is about limiting the possibilities of the elected university leader, the one-man leader providing real university sovereignty, the rector, which, according to our concepts, is the reduction of academic, in this sense, academic sovereignty and autonomy. I would like to draw your attention now to the fact that in the debate of a later law on the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the same form, the Public Property Management Foundation or a version of it will be introduced, which we will obviously express all of our criticisms. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The aim, Mr. Minister, is certainly to promote a Hungarian higher education institution among the first hundred. The best thing to do is to think about the whole of Hungarian higher education. Because while we're talking about an institution, I respectfully ask what's going on with the University of Debrecen, the University of Pécs and the Szeged, what's going on with my institution, the ELTE, where they're releasing nearly 50 instructors right now. What about funding our medical universities, what about country colleges and universities? This bill will improve the quality of Corvinus University, but I do not see the case of improving standards, and the decline in the quality of higher education as a whole will continue. Every person who sees an important, important and decisive element in Hungarian education in the future, in this sense, must say that the direction in which you see education is either public education or vocational training, or higher education is unacceptable. [[11.00]] Instead of improving standards, instead of strengthening university autonomy, instead of improving the position of students, instead of improving the remuneration of teachers, you consider strengthening the state, central management, as a priority. That's why the teachers in public education would want to teach soendias. That is why practically trained workers are brought out of vocational training. This is because at the moment in higher education they are thinking in an institution, symbolically, and the quality of Hungarian higher education as a whole is decreasing. Therefore, we reject this law and recommend that everyone else reject it. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and we will continue with the speeches by the lead speaker. For your information, I see that even Mr Vice-President would have had something to say about the 30-minute time frame for this speech as a keynote speaker. I give the floor from the DK Group to Congressman Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-43	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You have flooded the country once again with billboards, where we can learn about the state's amazing work results with the help of various false extras. Unfortunately, however, a giant poster has not been stuck out, which would be about the fact that the government is truly unique, and in this truly wonderful way, achieving truly wonderful results and showing great creativity, has revolutionised the world of organised crime and white collar crime. I must tell you that in this area your imagination is inexhaustible, you always have new and new ideas. The legislative proposals before us are essentially about the introduction of a whole new form of theft, which we can call a big university robbery. Because what is this bill about? Basically, they take a state university, a well-functioning, respected university, they take it away from students, they take it away from the public, they privatize it, they turn it into a private institution. In a particular way, a private institution where your interests, the interests of the government, prevail. Everything for the government, nothing for the students, nothing for the instructors. That is what this bill is all about, fellow Members. Let's start with the most important question, the students. What is your wonderful model about? It is difficult to say, of course, because they are lying all over the place on this issue; also Minister, he was very far from the ground of reality in his recent comment on the fact that there will be a scholarship system here, and they will not even notice what has happened and what is changing. You have to open the bill and read it. What is this bill about? This is about not giving students any guarantees. It is not subject to the rules of the Higher Education Act that apply to recruitment, scholarships. What do you have instead? Brutal tuition. Instead, it is impossible for the institution to impose any amount of tuition; the multimillion-dollar tuition fees that Minister spoke of are not unrealistic; Minister Hiller, who was once the Minister of Education, spoke about this matter. These are not unrealistic at all, the multimillion-dollar tuition fees come in, and there is no guarantee for students for scholarships. The foundation will decide that at some point, and then, if the government enters into an agreement with the foundation, they may or may not agree to do so. We do not see any evidence of this in the law, there is no idea of this. I must add that the chancellor of the institution, who is your accomplice in this crime, speaks more sincerely to the Minister, because he has already acknowledged that the proportion of paid foreign students will increase, that today's ratio will turn between paying and non-paying students, and has clearly revealed the purpose of this story. The idea of setting up a university where students will collect their tuition is a lot of money that they're gonna put away in this foundation. This is not so creative, you have already tried this in the Hungarian National Bank, remembering that you have lost your public money character. That's what we're talking about right now. They're wondering how Corvinus, the state institution, should lose its character. That's your goal. So from this point on, students are not allowed to walk by any law, and from this point on, the foundation can be granted as a favor, which, of course, as a founder of the government, is carefully controlled, completely opposed to the essence of the foundation system, the very essence of which is the separation between the founder and the foundation, but the establishment of an institution where the government essentially decides what it is doing without any public and legislative control. The money's leaning, they can do whatever they want with it. Congressman Hiller mentioned the property. It's obvious what's going on. Someone's gonna make a lot of money buying the property in PPP, and then someone's gonna make a good buck selling it in a couple of years. It's about how to steal this property, get it out of the public sector. Nothing else. It is therefore expected for the instructors That they're out of Corvinus. But that's not news, that's the point of your education policy. That's why they've reduced the age limit of compulsory education and pushed every eighth student out of school without proper education, any kind of education or qualifications on the street, and they're ruining it for the rest of their lives. That's why they want to keep reducing the number of high school graduates. That's why they ruined vocational school. That's why they demoted vocational training, vocational school. This is why general training is reduced at all levels of the institution. That's why they beat the relatively acceptable national basic curriculum and replaced the horror written by bureaucrats. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kiss is reluctant to hear this in Parliament, but Parliament has passed the law to exclude most Hungarian students from further education by requiring a language examination, but they have not created the conditions for teaching languages in public education. In fact, most high schools have reduced the number of language lessons and the resources available for language learning. Of course, then you can pay for two weeks' reward trips, but the question is whether this money would not be more necessary for each student to receive normal language education and language education at each school. The Corvinus gates are closed to Hungarian students, and the Corvinus gates are closed especially to students who do not come from a wealthy fidesz family, but to children of ordinary Hungarian citizens, and instead open this university for paid foreign students. What happens to the instructors? You have said this frankly, Minister. What's gonna happen? What will happen is that they lose all the protection that the status of civil servant means, they lose all the rights they have enjoyed in institution management, and instead they become regular workers. Employees who we know what you think because you've broken the slave law. The same slave fate awaits university educators. It will also apply to them that you are not interested in families, you are not interested in protesting, you are only interested in how Hungarian workers can be drained as much as possible. So the slave law will now extend to these workers, the university instructors, and they will also have 400 hours of extra work for free and the disenfranchisement. We will never accept this, and as we always protest against the slave law, because a patriot cannot accept that the people working in the country are humiliated, blackmailed, deprived of their rights, and likewise we will not settle for this in the case of teachers working in the university world. He had the nerve to talk about university autonomy, while this proposal puts another Commissar on the campus, he will no longer be a Commissar, not a superior, the Chancellor, a president. President, secretary, notary play well, but the point will be, and the professional failure of the Chancellor's system has proved that the only thing this system is good for is the government's will to cut down higher education so that universities don't protest the withdrawal of funds, but the chancellors beat down as bad police officers. This is the story of the ELTE, where they send out teachers who are irreplaceable and destroy training that a patriotic and responsible government after you can only restore in decades. [[11.10]] As ELTE cuts mean, show what you're planning on doing in state higher education, you want to do the same in Corvinus, but in bigger ones. As you can see in front of you, Minister, when it comes to knowledge, education and science, only dollar signs are jumping, only the financial aspects are present, and this is what will happen to Corvinus. The instructors and the trainings that make money for the farmers, for you, and for the instructors who deal with an area that is useful to the country, for the public, will have no place in this new, privatized business model. What about wealth and funding? The seemingly beautiful model is that the state will put in a stock and then the university will farm from it. Until the next crisis, as long as this fortune has a real return. We don't know what happens after that, of course, then we'll find a way. 'Cause otherwise, there's no financing obligation. So after the student who goes to Corvinus from here on out, the state doesn't provide funding. You handle it. It says here that the government will sign a contract with him. Well, if you want to. If he doesn't want to, he won't sign a contract with her. If you think Corvinus will obey your orders, you'll get state money if you don't think so, you won't get state money. But the point of public institutions, the public sector, is that it works in a predictable way for the good of the country, not based on the current ideas of the current government. At the same time, of course, you have the great opportunity: there is property, there is accumulated knowledge, there is the rights attached to it. The treatment of these will be completely opaque from here on out. From here on out, this story is about how you can be in this foundation, and we'll give you, take you, take you, take care of it, and how you do things like this, we all have experience. We know how this works when you manage state assets, how you lose your public finances, how you transform into private property, we know who will otherwise win public procurements or procurements in your private university. We have seen, we have to see, there is the great example: how the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank work. What they've tried there in relatively small size, they want to do here big time. It wasn't even small... So, I'd like to do it one more time, it looks like we're running out of resources, we need the source of training, we need the source and the prestige that's in Corvinus. I understand, of course, that it also hurts you that while CEU was successfully driven away from Hungary, while destroying a university that was truly well-known, your attempts to grunt your own university, small home-school and home-higher education were not a great success to put it mildly. The higher education institution brought together by the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank did not rise to the level of the world's largest economic schools, even though, based on the self-confidence of the President of the National Bank, we expected that his revolutionary views would fly up into the sky. But unfortunately, it seems that the less unorthodox part of economics that they teach on Corvinus in the world is more valuable than what they teach in Matolcsy College. They created the National University of Public Service, filled the school with money, made it a good place for campus, but that's another question, there's a lot of good pay, a lot of instructors. They made him a state monopoly in public administration, but he can't be a high-quality university, but I just don't see that there's something incredibly important about the University of Public Service among the great institutions of the world. Well, it didn't work, it doesn't have the talent, you know, the nature of science and higher education is like something else, it doesn't work, so it can't be government-sanctioned to have great universities. Neither is stolen public money or highlighted government support enough, because it takes freedom, creativity, autonomy and critical spirit. It's all things that are very far from you. So we failed to set up our own university. So what's the solution? If not, you can learn from the Shepherd boys: you have to einstand one. Let's look at the university, which is of relatively good quality, for which there are students, Hungarians and foreigners, which has prestige. Corvinus is here, and there are those who sometimes question the authority of the government or its economic decisions, they work in a university-educated, intellectual way, and there's a great opportunity: let's take Corvinus home. Let's make it our own private university, burn the reputation Corvinus has gathered over the past decades, see if we can now create a world-class university. I'm gonna tell you right now, we're not gonna make it. It's not gonna work, because the president and chancellor you've got sitting there don't make you understand this thing, it doesn't make you a credible instructor that you're gonna give him money. The addiction you're going to have to this university is not going to allow it to be a very high-quality, good institution. But of course, it will be possible to say that there is an institution that we have created, and how high it is. I have to tell you that this is essentially about killing Corvinus as a state university and then robbing his body. I must say that this is a disgrace to Hungarian higher education, and it is a disgrace to all those involved in this. In summary, I can tell you that this bill is nothing more than to increase exclusion, segregation in the Hungarian education system, to keep the less wealthy Hungarian students away from Corvinus. To make it impossible for Hungarian children and Hungarian students to rise with the help of education. This bill is good for nothing but to push Corvinus' instructors into a vulnerable slave status to enforce against them the ruthless policy that every Hungarian worker must suffer from you. And this proposal is good for nothing but stealing the reputation and wealth of Corvinus and using it for their own purposes. The Hungarians in Europe do not ask for this higher education policy, the Hungarian patriots do not ask for the destruction of Hungarian higher education, so we cannot support this proposal, and it would be better to withdraw it immediately and develop a new proposal on a professional basis. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-44	Thank you. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Péter Ungár. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-45	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to start with a personal confession that I never went to Corvinus, I went to college in Scotland, and then I ended up at CEU with all the fidesz. By the way, I was taught by Secretary of State Elijah, who was then Secretary of State in the Fidesz government. I just think I'm going to forward that to you. [[Gergely Harvestó: They won't even forgive me...]] The fact is that there at CEU it was felt that the university where one of the most important professional work was conducted and enjoyed international recognition was Corvinus University. It is an interesting question, and I think it might be possible to explain why the government is dealing with a university in Budapest again, and as my fellow Member Arató said, why is it that if they come up with something, they are not looking forward to the University of Szeged or Pécs, but this is another situation. This university has been, and can be said, a fundamental part of the Hungarian elite training. You want to make this part of the elite training even more important, so that the Minister can then make a national model of this, as he has already said. The fact is that if you look at the rankings of this university in the international rankings, in contrast with, among other things, the CEU, which operated without budgetary resources, we can see that even though this has been a part of the Hungarian elite training, it has not done so well at international level. It is possible to start a strategic debate here that I think it would be better to focus on things where there is less competition at international level. Perhaps we, say, should compete with Bárczi on an international level in ranking, because that is where we could make a very big international effort with little resources. But since this House is full of economists and lawyers, I respectfully say this, though it may be a bit excessive that it is so, it has not been possible for us to compete in things in which we can achieve more with less resources. But let's just say the point of this is what you want to make a national model of. It's a neoliberal law. In terms of philosophy, therefore, in terms of social and economic philosophy, this is a neoliberal law, which concerns the need to involve private capital instead of the state's resources in higher education. [[11.20]] I have a philosophical problem with that. For example, if we shape higher education on the basis of private capital, by the way, this is done at some rural universities, such as the University of Debrecen, and the multinational company pays part of its own workforce training, the problem is that a training structure will be that if that multinational company leaves because in Romania they make lower wages, then we are there with people who can't work after it, because the fact is that they are doing this for themselves, not for the country in the long term. Every successful country that has achieved some great economic performance has achieved this by investing in education, and this investment has not come from the government's strategic partners, nor from multinational companies who have paid for the training, but from the state, the budget. There's money for that. There's not supposed to be money for a lot of what you spend on, but there's money for that. What I would like to do here with the few Fidesz MEPs present, I would like to play this interactive game and play a game of thought, is to think about what Fidesz would have said if we had said this law, my fellow Member, Czunyiné, say one of the previous governments sitting next to me. What would Fidesz have reacted then? I can't imagine the amount of words and hysteria and everything the Fidesz would have done then. The basis for your political legitimacy in part of the tuition exemption is a referendum on it. It's a neoliberal law that Lajos Bokros would lick all ten fingers for it. The fact is that you are opposed to the last idea that gave you political legitimacy in 2010, because there are people in this government who, by the way, are most openly committed to this, Minister, perhaps in the entire government, who are involved in a neoliberal, thatcherist way in the whole state policy and, among other things, in higher education. I will not repeat what the various branches of this do, what my fellow Member Hiller has said, say, with the university instructors or what they do with the property itself. The fact is that this is a terrible law because it is intended to create a national model for privatization of higher education. It's a privatisation law. They just said, before the agenda, that the terrible thing about Balliberal governments was that everything was privatized. We allow you to govern in the '90s, I remember the history books well, but if you consider it such a terrible thing, then how can you submit a privatisation law. The tuition you're saying will be solved with a scholarship system and there's nothing to see here to admit that the tuition will be introduced here. So you are, again, who... [[Dr. László Palkovics nods: This is what we call cost. It's not tuition.]] He's nodding. So they're introducing tuition. [[Dr. László Palkovics: There is training today on a cost-effective basis.]] The tuition still exists today. Thank you. Finally, someone in the government said it! Hallelujah! [[Dr. László Palkovics: Self-costed training exists.]] I was standing in front of the agenda when my fellow Members were banned for a table, standing here and the Secretary of State told me that there was no tuition, because they call it Aunt Gizi or whatever her name is, a training contribution. He just confessed! [[Dr. László Palkovics: This is a cost.]] Self-cost, we call it self-cost, but we can also call it Béla Kovácsné Kis, even the tuition fee, because the tuition, if you look at it, Minister, is what the definition is, you see that you must pay for the training. So no matter what you call it, if you have to give money to sit in class, you can call it whatever you want, it'll be tuition. So you have now admitted, for the record, I repeat that the Orbán government has introduced tuition fees, this is a pro-teaching law, and you are neoliberally trying to solve higher education with tuition. This is terrible because the three public-law dignitaries who came from a college had to deal with politics because they could study in that system for free. They're taking this opportunity away from people who can't pay tuition because they work at, say, an X.Y. factory with, like, a hundred hours overtime. The fact is that there is another serious problem with you introducing the tuition: that you have not asked anyone, nor your own voters, what they think about this. You've been fighting about this whole story for minutes, and before that you've been fighting for years, you've said everything is wrong, which is pay, nothing is allowed in this, you've had a very pro-state idea, and then you've introduced private capital-based higher education. I would still like to see Minister... because there is an answer, although I think it would be appropriate if, at times, we had the opportunity to respond, not only for the last time, but I do not have such naive thoughts about how this is going to work, but at the end it would answer whether it would be possible to think that this model should be in the whole of higher education in Hungary, that it should be like this everywhere. Because if so, it means that the number of people participating in higher education in Hungary will decrease even more, it will be even more expensive to participate in higher education, and, for example, without covering housing costs or college costs, this will be available to fewer Hungarian students. I do not know how you think we are going to compete internationally when successful countries invest in education almost everywhere, and we are trying to be competitive with overtime and by pressing labour costs. One last thought is that it is also very sad that this government is introducing tuition without even having the guts to accept it. At least you have to be honest about that, and say that in 2009-10, 2008 we thought something, we changed our opinion. All of a sudden, I couldn't tell you a case where Fidesz wouldn't have changed his mind, and now I'm just thinking about Frontex, and for some reason, I'm just thinking that we're in favour of it now, or we're not in favour of it. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár: European Army.]] European Army, thank you very much. You could start with such a common opposition, in which Fidesz changed its opinion. I wish it would take 30 minutes, so we might be able to spend some time here, but that's not the point. [[Intervention from opposition benches: Liberal International.]] The Liberal International, yes. The thing is, they changed their minds in this, too, or I was going to refer to that, which is even more serious, and you didn't mean that at the time. You thought it was good to campaign with tuition at the time, because this is a good way to strike at the then rightly and meritably unpopular Gyurcsány government, but you didn't really think that there was a need for state involvement in education. For some reason, they started chasing everyone who studied humanities, as if it were a terrible thing in the world, but it wasn't. Indeed, there are many things that could be achieved with the knowledge of humanities that enhance Hungary's reputation, and you are not concerned with why two or three of you are studying chemistry teachers in Hungary at ELTE, but rather with the fact that business and economics and these otherwise popular professions can be paid for, so that a very expensive elite education can be created. So I'm asking the minister to confess that when he answers, Fidesz is caught here, this is a pro-teaching government, it's a neoliberal law for tuition. Thank you.
u2019-02-19-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to join the head of Minister Palkovics, and perhaps I think I understand why Minister Hiller thinks or wonders that it is not the head of the educational portfolio who is the main author, because I see that the government has a system of ideas in which he thinks innovation is a very important thing and that competitiveness comes from innovation, and what we must therefore do is to develop innovation, and then there will be competitiveness. Unfortunately, both the Minister and the Government forget that it does not look like this. The thing looks like there's basic research and applied research, then there's innovation and there's competitiveness. It's a tripartite system. These do not come from each other, so if there is a good basic research, then in order for it to be an innovation, the state should indeed stand there and make very powerful startup programs and similar incubators and other things, which it has missed or where it has done, they all reek very strongly of corruption. Of course, there is a third branch of it that, despite innovation and patenting, we have seen in recent years that there is no competitive product and a competitive economy, it would be necessary for Hungary to develop an economic system in which market selection plays a role. So, in fact, competitiveness should be called to account for Lőrincen Mészáros and his colleagues, why they do not have, if they are such large companies and develop with such great dynamics, why they do not have products in the high-tech industries, why they do not give a significant part of Hungarian exports, because that is what is needed. [[11.30]] So even though we're going through this whole story in such a cataract blacksmith way, I don't think there's going to be any progress. The Minister also mentioned the need for a change of degrees in higher education. I absolutely agree with that, and I think it would be very timely, because it has been more than 40 years since I have been teaching at university, and I can see that the standard of university education is falling and sinking in a monotonous manner, and it hasn't stopped since 2010, and it is still going down. The number of students is also falling significantly, and now the decline in the number of instructors is also very noticeable especially in the countryside, in the end castles such as Pécs. So we're gonna need one of these shifts. In fact, whether this model, as outlined here by the Minister, will be an instrument for this shift in gear, I believe that there are some doubts, as the previous speakers have stated. Because these goals are very ambitious, so that the Corvinus University is among the best 100 universities in Europe and the best 200 universities in the world, this is exactly the type of thing that Mr Matolcsy is looking at and announced that by 2030 the GDP per capita in Hungary will reach 80 percent of Austrian GDP, which is not an impossible event, but is very unlikely to be close to zero. I think that this is also close to zero, basically because what the quality of a university really is depends heavily on the social environment in which it is, and this Hungarian social medium is not really favourable to autonomous thinking, and it is not really favourable to science and scientific research, and in the absence of these, I think it is not a very likely breakthrough. Turning Corvinus from a state university into a private university or a non-state university into a foundation university would not in itself be a bad idea or a bad goal, but unfortunately, with the method of doing this now, and not as a result of an organic journey development, the result will be the same as in the case of the other very important goal, that it was possible to see it after 2010, when the government announced that there would be a great need for domestic ownership companies to create the Hungarian capital. I myself thought that this was a very good goal, but this goal should have been achieved in such a way that the market would choose who those entrepreneurs would be and not centrally designate them. There is now a big capitalist class in Hungary, which has nothing to do with competition and competitiveness, which is such an oligarchic thing, and their success depends on how close they are to the Prime Minister, and if the Prime Minister loses confidence, they will virtually lose their entire capital, which is what we could see in the context of Spéder and Mr Simicska. Well, the fact that Corvinus University is transformed into a foundational form, and it's going to be an asset allocation, what does that mean? It means that, according to the authors, independence from the State will be achieved and autonomy will prevail. Of course, this autonomy is questionable, because it is obvious in the law that this independence can be very limited, because the government decides on training, so what kind of training can be started, and of course the crucial question is who will be included in the board of directors of the foundation, because the board of trustees of the foundation will take the important decisions. So if I had heard or heard of a method in which, let's say, the curatorium is given by the government side, the opposition and the profession in a third ratio, then I would have been a little more confident in this matter, but I suspect, by the way, that it will be appointed by the government to be members of the board, and if it is to be appointed by him, then obviously, the university will be run by people who will not strive at all to be truly autonomous, but rather to get on that state line. According to the anecdote, when Baron Rothschild gave a significant amount of support to Harvard, Harvard University, he told the president of Harvard to sit down for lunch and discuss the division of labor between us. The president of Harvard replied: there is nothing to discuss about division of labour, you give us the money, and we control the university because everyone does what they do. Well, I'm kind of in the middle of this by my name. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Dr. László Palkovics intervenes.]] And I don't think, by the way, that the government is giving you a lot of money without demanding something. So the Rector of Corvinus is not president of Harvard, and therefore Corvinus will not become Harvard, I believe, unfortunately. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's very far away from him!]] So I think that, based on the examples of the past period, you can live with the suspicion lawsuit, and more so you can see it, because the status of civil servant will cease to exist, that there will be no possibility of such types of things as what I am doing here, that as a university teacher, I am criticizing the government's economic policy and the government's actions, because if Corvinus is going to be a foundation university, then, of course, the board of trustees of the foundation can decide very quickly that we do not really need this instructor, and that his heart would have the right. In today's state system, as paradoxical as it is, there is much greater immunity for a university teacher than in the system that you imagine and visualize about how good this will actually be. Then I would like to mention one more thing, and this is the issue of financing, so I do not understand why MOL and Richter shares were included in the asset allocation, because, in fact, it seems here that the shares have different returns by nature, different yields per year, and in recent years it has been seen that these returns were between 6 billion and 10 billion, while Corvinus currently has a deficit of 9 billion, a lack of operation, because it can generate 4 billion from its own resources, 9 billion from the state, and if they want to replace the state, then there may be a year when this can be done, but there may be a year when it is not. And the question arises here, then, why not with government bonds, because government bonds could give a much more stable return, and unfortunately, I also think that, while these shares cannot be sold, it may be that if the returns here are smaller and smaller, then investors and private capitals will appear, who will make up for this shortage. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's the goal!]] and so stealth, step by step, this institution will become increasingly privatised, and then it should be called, as my fellow Member said, a privatisation is indeed taking place here. On this basis, I also think that this bill cannot be supported with a good heart and that we will not support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-02-19-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I was informed that, for technical reasons, the keynote speech of the KDNP Group had not taken place, so now... [[Gergely Arató and Péter Ungár: Oh! Péter Ungár: But is it now?!]] Otherwise, you can be referred here without further ado, Mr Vice-President, you know, in many cases someone has not been here, and instead we have taken another one in advance, so I do not understand the indignation about this. [[Gergely Harvester: Let's hear it! Let's hear it. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We're listening! We were sad! A KDNP lead speech is for our construction!]] The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go. [[Intercoms and applause in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[11.40]]
u2019-02-19-49	Thank you very much. I wish the bill had been celebrated with such enthusiasm. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will not tell you the elements of the bill that have already been mentioned from my fellow Member or Minister. I would like to draw attention to a few things, as I agree with my fellow Member Mellar on how competitiveness and innovation are linked. I do not agree that you emphasized basic research, because as a small country, our basic research is not so great, apart from the world-famous Hungarian mathematics and the small amount of basic physical research. Here we should talk about further research on this basis, and there are precisely the incubators or startup subsidies you mentioned, those, I think, are pointing in the right direction, and we are talking about constantly expanding support. You have not mentioned international examples of the transformation of Corvinus University that could be brought here and are a good example of Finland, since there has been a similar transformation in recent years and the results are positive. [[There's a constant murmur from the opposition benches.]] Or even in the South-Asian South-East Asian Innovation Area [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] universities with similar models are also found. And the entire Anglo-Saxon university world is based on a foundational background. Congressman Mellar mentioned Rothschild's story, but Baron Rothschild was able to donate there because there was a foundation behind Harvard University, there was a foundation that could adopt it. [[There's a constant murmur on the opposition side. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] There was a foundation that could oversee the spending of these funds. So you did tell us the truth from that point of view. My fellow harvester said that the law must be opened. Well, exactly. It should be opened and read, because it contains exactly the guarantees that you have missed in relation to state assets, real estate. You're going to have to conduct a prudent asset management with a very strict investment policy. You made it look like a devil, the fact that the university might be able to attract outsiders. It's a good thing. [[It's constant noise. Péter Ungár: Wow! Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] It is good that, by the way, you can find research applications and financing methods from either international or domestic life, and fundraising will be a serious task, I think, for the newly created foundation structure, so it is very important that they can do so. [[Péter Ungár: Name yourselves SZDSZ!]] Congressman Harvesto always tried hard to say the Corvinus, because he always wanted to say Karl Marx instead, and this nerve came and he had a hard time saying the new name. He talked a lot about the PPP structure. My fellow Member knows a lot about this because it was you who introduced these constructions. I remember the time when you had to spend billions of heavy taxpayers to replace the rather bad constructions you have made in recent years. So, if you are missing the additional resources from the education system in the last few years, look at how many times in the Hungarian Gazette the government has had to make decisions to replace PPP schemes for billions of forints. Minister Palkovics, as Secretary of State, has presented many of these proposals to the government as a result of your poor investment policy. My fellow Member, Mr Arato, mentioned the National Basic Training Plan, the former National Basic Training Plan that you have set up. Nationals weren't national in any way, so the curriculum was basic enough. That's why we had to change it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But at least the children could count, but now you're trying to eliminate it from school!]] I think that all those billings [[The president's ringing the bell. There's a constant murmur from the opposition benches.]] where efficiency, flexibility and reduction of bureaucracy are highlighted to some extent, it should be welcomed and helped. That's exactly what we're talking about here, and Minister has reassured everyone, but I think it's very important. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Absolutely! Intercom from the opposition benches: Not me!]] that the number of free students will be maintained in the current order of magnitude with the scholarship system. A very interesting point, you have brought here in many speeches the example of the Soros University. There you are raising the model to a pedestal that, by the way, there are paying students and there is a serious scholarship system behind it. [[There's a lot of noise from the opposition benches. Critics, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not state!]] They say it's an awfully good system. We're dealing with the usual left-wing double standards. If there is a similar system here, where there is a serious scholarship system on a need-to-know basis, on a study basis, on a social basis [[It's constant noise. Péter Ungár speaks to Dr. László Palkovics. The president's ringing the bell.]] A serious scholarship system is being introduced, then that's the problem. But at the Soros University, it's a commendable activity. That is the double standard, ladies and gentlemen. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What was Soros University in the ranking?]]
u2019-02-19-50	Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, I've been watching you for half an hour. Come on, give me that. .......................................................................................................................................... [[A lot of noise from the opposition benches. Crying in the same place: Mr President! Péter Ungár: Listen to the lead speaker of KDNP, he says so many clever things!]] Come on, give the rapporteur, the speaker, the respect he deserves. And don't make any comments, in particular, because you are constantly provoking the Minister. So stay still, all of you. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: They're just talking! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Trying to talk, but it's very difficult! It's constant noise.]] Just calm down a little bit. [[To Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] You too, Congresswoman. Go on, Congressman.
u2019-02-19-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So there are many international examples. I would like to ask my fellow Members who are now speaking against the law to, say, initiate a political debate day here in two or three years' time, and if they see that it worked, then say that we were wrong, it worked, in international rankings Corvinus is constantly getting better and better. [[It's a lot of noise. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Gergely Arató: Are you coming to political debate day or are you going to sneak away again?]] Corvinus is constantly gaining better rankings in international rankings. Moreover, internationally renowned researchers and performers, whether Nobel Prize winners, appear in Corvinus class because they were able to involve these international processes and trends in the Hungarian higher education life with this new model. I'd like to ask you to do this in two or three years when we see how it's going to turn out. Congressman Mellar said that it is unfounded, but I think that there has been serious thought in the university since 2016-2017, what kind of change of structure, how this could be done. There are many models of how to make the university more competitive, better, innovative. This thought has been done, this preparation has been done. The result is the bill before us now. There are many other models, however, but I think that good international examples should also be taken into account, as I have said, whether from the territory of the European Union, from Southeast Asia or from the Anglo-Saxon world, there are examples that have worked, so we should try to do the same. What everyone missed, because obviously this is not the focus of the law, is the amendment of the Higher Education Act. I would just like to welcome it, because non-state higher education institutions will be able to provide a much freer, more flexible atmosphere by, for example, introducing a proven system of chancellors at state higher education institutions at their own discretion [[Gergely Harvester: Fucking hell! They're looking forward to it.]] can be introduced by non-State higher education institutions. So I think that, overall, we will continue the debate, obviously, and the KDNP fraction supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-19-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible for the first independent Member to make his speech. Congressman Sándor Szabó asked for the floor. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Szabolcs!]] Szabolcs Szabó. I'm used to Sándor Szabó. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So it's not about Szeged, it's about Csepel. [[Defiance.]] As a matter of fact, three legislative proposals before us address the problem that Minister has set up in his expo and my fellow Members have talked about this for a long time - the reorganisation of the functioning of Corvinus. In fact, it is not only the amendment of the Higher Education Act and the Corvinus Foundation Act, but also the vote on the Trust Foundation Act. It's just that we're not discussing it in one. I'd be a little confused about that, because it's actually connected. I understand that there is also a specific point to allow family trust foundations to be set up. In parentheses, I also understand the reason for setting up a trust fund for the Ripper family, but this is how it relates. But since we're not discussing it together, I wouldn't discuss it right now, so I'd stick to these two. At the outset, we state that the biggest problem of Hungarian higher education is the lack of money at the moment. Everyone involved in higher education knows that. What's this amendment doing? It highlights an institution from the Hungarian higher education system, trying in some way to give this institution more money than it currently is, in advance, stating to me that it is not able to ensure this in the long term, but I will talk about it in detail and leave all the other universities in the mess. That's the problem with this system. [[11.50]] The other problem is that if someone touches higher education without thinking in a system, but it highlights an institution, it can do a lot of things, but it will not do good to them, I dare say firmly. László Pósán said that we are just trying to do this, and then, if it works, how good it will be, because it will apply to other universities. I'd like to ask you back, and in the case of chancellors and consistors, why didn't we try it? Of course, because it wasn't in the interest. It's not in the same interest here either, because it doesn't become a national model. Minister, you know exactly, because if we look at how much national wealth this entails in the case of a university, then for all public universities and colleges, these are, to a large extent, universities now, an inexorable amount of money that is not available. We should talk about the order of ten thousand billion forints. If I hand over all of the over two million acres of state forest assets, I still don't come out. So obviously there will be no national model in this sense. At the moment, the national model is the lack of money. I can only refer to what István Hiller said: I am a university lecturer at ELTE, and I am also a university lecturer at the same faculty, only on the other, TTK, where colleagues are being kicked out for dozens. So maybe that's the first thing we should do, so I'd just like to say that. What's the point of this transformation, most of it, has already been said by the speakers before me. Thus, a foundation is created, the foundation receives property, partly real estate, partly public-owned shares as a trustee, and this institution would operate from revenue generated by these funds and private donations from 2020. What's the problem? I dare say that this does not provide the basis for sound and long-term sustainable management. It's very simple. If we look at the amount of returns that could be achieved in our case from this stack of MOL and Richter shares in the last ten closed years, we can see that it was a year out of ten when they achieved more or more as a return than Corvinus receives as state aid. Nine out of ten years he got less. For example, it was three years when MOL shares received zero forint dividends. Therefore, based on the data of the last ten closed years, it can be said that this cannot be considered stable. We don't know what will happen in the future. The typical corvinus colleagues of the economy know better than I, as a geographer, that there are cycles of economic activity, especially the oil industry, which is most exposed to this. In five years, the MOL distribution may be zero forints again. How can you handle this? The author knows that this is such a problem, so how did he react to it? He wrote in the amendment that, of course, there is no State aid, but the Ministry may, in the context of some set of conditions laid down by the two of them, grant aid for precisely the purposes for which the university, a state university, is normally granted state aid. Because obviously the author knows that a year may not be the case. And real estate management is not going to make a lot of money, and that's relatively clear. It is also a large asset element, because this stock market was worth 380 billion HUF at the nominal value on 4 February, the value of the property is more difficult to estimate, but in any case it is a hundred billion HUF. And let's not forget one more thing. Such economic experts in wealth management always mention one thing: let us not forget the effect of inflation. They say you have to look at the amount of core inflation, plus 2-3 percent on an annual basis. So last year, we had 2.8 core inflation noddings, Mr. Mellar, and I'm happy about it, because it's his specialty more than mine, plus I'm putting 2-3 percent on it. This means that an annual yield rate of 5-6 percent is expected, plus inflation is now on the growth path, so in the longer term an even higher rate of yield growth is expected. That's when this system would be stable, but we can't guarantee that, can we? That's the point of the problem. That, in fact, I think that this is not satisfactory in terms of long-term stability, and this is a very important element in the functioning of universities to ensure stability, because decisions are not made here from one month to the next, as in, say, the automotive industry. Because in a car factory, you can stop production, you can stop a shift, you can make fewer cars, you can let people go, and the rest. But that's not how higher education works. There you have to think ahead, decades ahead. That is why I dare say firmly that this farming model is not good, and I think they are taking Corvinus in the wrong direction. The other is that they are also bringing significant instability into the Hungarian higher education system in the sense that I understand, of course, that you and Corvinus have dealt with this very well, but not with anyone else. Such a transformation would have been worth putting into a substantive professional-social debate. It's not a professional and social debate that you're gonna settle something, and when the law changes, you're gonna send it to an e-mail list that you can talk to now. This is one of the most significant changes that I have made to the actors of higher education in Hungary and to the professionals who are involved in it, and I have said this many times before, but they always laugh at me, so it would be worth talking to the opposition at all times. Because, as I said, you have to think ahead for decades here in higher education, and I don't think you think you'll still be in government in 30 years' time, even on the basis of form. The other main problem with this proposal is that it does not offer or offer any guarantees, nor does it require what we expect of Corvinus in return for receiving 380 billion forints of state-owned shares in asset management, and, I say, it is precisely difficult to say, but it is in any case a hundred billion-dollar property. The problem is, once I give so much money and wealth to a university, and I tell you to work as a private university, but I wouldn't consider it a private university, because my tax-paying money is in it, so it's a national asset that we're handing over, so I don't know what to call it. It's a private public university with such a unorthodox name. I think it would be entirely reasonable to impose a requirement. Let us say, for example, that scholarship students should be present in the same proportion as they were in higher education all over the country during the previous semester's admissions. Or let's set a specific number. I don't know, 1225 now I've hit my stomach and I've given you a number, so it would have been a guarantee because it's obvious that what's going to happen on Corvinus is that because of the economic pressure, the university has to generate revenue, especially in a year in which dividends make the return lower, plus, plus student tuition. What are you gonna do? He's going to start increasing the number and proportion of students, and then he's going to start cutting down the scholarships. That's how it works everywhere for foundation schools. There's no guarantee of what percentage it's supposed to be. You can do that. The Chancellor herself has announced that she wants to reverse the current 60-40 percent rate to 40-60. This can be done in several ways: it increases the number of student tuition students, and it can be done by reducing the number of scholarships. Plus, there is no guarantee that what he has undertaken is that he will grant scholarships to students so that they can study free of tuition, so that they can be, say, Hungarian citizens. 'Cause obviously, if I were them, I'd do the same thing to bring the best foreign students here on a scholarship to Corvinus, because that's the logic of operation. It thus increases his own prestige in the long term, so that he can grow his own co-worker base from the new emerging generation of scientists, and thus make the university even more recognized and even more recognised. Unfortunately, they saved themselves that. Then it is very interesting, as the Minister and the pro-government speakers have argued, that their autonomy will be ensured even more, because the university is free to shape its structure. So why can't the other universities do that? Then it logically arises that we should start thinking about it at other universities. [[12.00]] Moreover, this is not fully achieved here, because many speakers before me have said that it is one thing to be an economic leader instead of the Chancellor, which could also be done in the case of other universities, but to the rector this particular president will be put there. They take away the powers of the rector, they give them to the president, when the rector is appointed, the president will give an opinion on who to appoint as rector, they will always have to submit a file, otherwise the Prime Minister will not appoint it, as in the current system at Corvinus. Why is that a problem? He'll have the President's right to agree on everything, so nothing without him. Indeed, there will be three people at once who will be able to represent the university. That's gonna be a funny solution from a legal point of view. To get back to the point, why is it a problem if the rector's powers are reduced? Because the university is an educational, research institution, it's not a business, it's not meant to produce money. Knowledge must be expanded somehow, so it is customary for the rectors to be elected by the teachers and the community of researchers from themselves, from the body, from the community who are there, from university citizenship, and thus manage the university as a rector. Now, if I put a president on his neck, then the logic of this is gonna change, because it's gonna be about making money. Since we've been suzuking around here, I've been thinking about a Japanese example of this. Once a Hungarian film group went to the Hungarian department of the University of Osaka, if I remember correctly, it was established in 93 and the reporter asked the head of the Hungarian department there to tell me honestly why the Hungarian department in Japan is so far away, we don't have much to do with each other. The head of the department looked at me with a blind eye, because it seemed like he didn't understand the question, and he said, "Well, hello, it's a university, we do everything here, so that's the whole point of universe." So that's what's gonna be lost if the rector on a slipper like this has a cotton bush on his nose, and otherwise everything will be decided by the president, the Chancellor, or the economic manager. Of course, it is mentioned here that, yes, the status of civil servant will cease, the Jubilee Prizes will cease after a five-year transition, and the rest will receive a flexibility. Of course, in the long term, it will be good for the university to be able to conclude free employment contracts, and I would just like to point out that when we talked about Corvinus here, you were always the first to say what kind of thing it is, sucking away good Hungarian teachers and bringing everyone from abroad for a high salary. 'Cause that's how a good university works, but that's the only thing that's gonna work out in a viable system for every university, and not by taking out a buddy's university. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prior to the two-minute speeches, Minister asked for the floor. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Péter Ungár urged me not to deviate from the debate. The Member, even as a young Member and as a politician of education, remembers that in the first four-year cycle, when any question was raised in the field of education, we had a long discussion about this, so I do not want you to have a different picture of it as a new Member, so I asked that I now wish to comment and respond to what has been said. Since we are all colleagues here somewhere with all the speakers, I understand your difficult situation, because the fact is that we have to give a negative opinion on something that is clear to you that this is a good thing. It's a good thing, because if you look at the history of Corvinus University, in 2014 there were premonitions that Corvinus University would be closed by the government. If you remember, I also believe that Corvinus University was surrounded by such a live chain, if all is true, many protested against why the government was not taking Corvinus University seriously. Then came the chancellors, when they said, "Oh, my God, the state is putting a rein on the neck of the university." So, what happens to Corvinus University now? This is exactly the situation that we are trying to change in another direction, namely, we want to run the university as any foreign university that you normally bring up as an example, and it is very right that this is the case, so I understand your difficult situation, that it is difficult to say negative things about this, but it must be the nature of politics. I would like to end this here, and I would like to respond more professionally to the various points. Basically, I would like to give you a few brief answers to Mr Brenner Koloman's questions as to why Corvinus University and why we are talking about Rankings. Yes, the Rankings are a really difficult case, there are many kinds of Rankings, there is the Shanghai list, there is a series of other things. You always have to see where the university can perform otherwise. Ranking is not about where we are, it's about how we get from one level to another. That is why we need to create conditions to be able to perform well in these Rankings. Otherwise, in the case of a university that wants to increase the number of foreign students, this is a fundamental issue. I felt from the debate so far that perhaps the stronger appearance of foreign students in the Hungarian higher education system was as if it were a negative thing. I am very confident that the people here do not think so, not even because in 2014 we set some goals in the higher education strategy. One of the goals was to raise the then 5% foreign student rate to 15 percent. This is where we're going, by the way, not just Corvinus University, but other universities at this very moment, I think they're very good. So this is a good direction for an area such as education, research, its internationality is exactly what ensures that as many foreign players as possible are involved, and students belong to this category. Now we're at 11 percent, we've set 15 percent, and let's not rule out that this ratio is going to increase. Congressman Koloman: wealth is not the same as return. Out of this 380 billion shares, we cannot solve the problems of Hungarian higher education, because that is simply not what it is, the return on this is what will be interesting here. Basically, this type of operation exists in many universities in the world. If we look at this higher education strategy from 2014, we have described a model of funding that is generally true in the world. If you look at a U.S. university operating in a similar way, the revenue structure of this U.S. university, of course, is not general, it looks roughly like it consists of a quarter of its budget from student tuition fees, a quarter of it from various grants, a quarter of it from direct orders, i.e. market orders, and the last quarter from the support of the people who care about the university. We can't really do this in Hungary today, especially with public universities, because no one will give support to a state university, because the state will become the owner there. We have now dealt with this situation here, that the university will be essential here, and not the state behind it, maintenance, but another construction will appear. So basically here, we have opened up an opportunity that we will obviously want to take forward, which will enable universities to support it in this way. You have to go to Singapore, you have to ask a student in Singapore why universities operate in a democracy in this way, as we are planning to do here. As far as tuition courses are concerned, excellence continues to matter here, and I think I said this in my speech, which we have said many times. What's happening is that the state scholarship will be replaced by the Corvinus Scholarship. In the state scholarship, the social situation of the student does not determine who will be a public scholarship, but the performance. That is the case now, and it has been, and it will continue to be. There are also self-costed students, so I didn't have to admit anything. Since 2013, there have been high-cost students in Hungarian higher education institutions, of course. [[Péter Ungár: There is tuition!]] Of course, there are two types of financing. Congressman, this is new to you at most, but I don't think that's new to most of the people here. There are cost-effective students who pay for the cost if they don't get a state scholarship. All that's happening here is that instead of the state scholarship, Corvinus Foundation Scholarship will be set up. Why the corporate and foundation forms are not good, we have not considered the state form to be appropriate, so we have to decide which is not right now. That's a pretty interesting thing. The funding system, I think, if someone knows a university, knows precisely that the funding system is on a lot of feet, as well as the Hungarian universities, except for this last element, which actually means the donation, are financed to a significant extent from state resources, from a smaller extent from different sources of tender, to a lesser extent from the self-costed payments you call tuition fees, and to a very small extent from corporate direct orders. That's not right, we've been trying to change that since 2014, and I think we're doing well with this thing, every university. I cannot understand that I am speaking to László Lovász in an invaluable tone, according to József Pálinkás. On the one hand, I didn't speak to him in an invaluable tone, all of our negotiations were in a very friendly tone. Mr Pálinkás did not participate in these, so I do not understand what he is basing this on, but this will be the subject of another debate. In response to Mr Hiller's points as to whether the quality of Hungarian education has been deteriorating since 2010, we do not really know whether that is the case. You mentioned the results of PISA surveys, we'll see what it's gonna be like this year, but there are other surveys, like PIRLS, TIMSS, where they've improved, whatever we're doing, and we're talking about public education, and I wouldn't want to go into that right now, it's a different kind of debate here. [[12.10]] But the thing is, they've improved significantly at PIRLS since the kids went to kindergarten, and since we've been maintaining schools where we haven't been able to solve this problem before. By the way, I think we agreed with MSZP's policy-makers that this is a good direction, so we are now in such a specific situation. What the congressman says is that a university with a smaller number of tuition fees, a smaller number of instructors, I don't know where that was calculated from. Those business plans, those plans I saw about Corvinus' future strategy, they didn't contain that. So here I would really like to say that before we make such statements here in this House, we should consider whether there really is a basis for these. Just like the 2 million HUF tuition, because I don't really see the reason why the tuition would be 2 million HUF anyway. I would like to look at the calculation that, based on some information, has shown this otherwise. The dividend, as I mentioned, is a source of income for the foundation. Obviously, a lot has happened here. There's a long shadow of old sin; I think that's what they say. Here is a lucky situation that the PPP structure that we forced into universities at the time was worth about HUF 400 billion, the government started to replace them. This bailout is happening right now. One of the elements of this is that for Corvinus University, the government provides the source that, in the case of the worst possible PPP structure, at the time, the government before 2010, we now call it being supported by us. We'll secure this source so we can buy that building, the university can buy that building. There are two things going on here. One is that what the university and the state have paid so far was 1.4 billion forints a year, as a rent, and the revenue that will appear for the remainder of the building in the case of the PPP partner, all of which will be the income of Corvinus University, which will be 1.4 billion forints per year in net terms, which will be added to the previous amounts. So not only does the foundation have incomes and opportunities to this effect, but also because the university became independent of the state, so does the university. I think these are very important things. Returning to real estate. We considered it very important that an element of the university's real estate is the main building of Corvinus University, it cannot be charged or sold; I think we agree on that. But with all the other buildings, if the university can't manage its own property, then what are you doing? So if he doesn't need a building, because, let's say, he wants a sports hall instead of a college, or he wants a dorm instead of a sports hall... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Stadium!]] Well, college students do sports, Congresswoman, so be careful with those statements. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Stadium built by Lőrinc Ripper.]] Be careful with those statements. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] So the university can't do anything about it. What is very important is that it is in the law, it is advisable to see this in it, that the university can sell its assets outside the main building, but it must be purchased in the same way, which, by the way, supports its core business. So it is possible to buy property for educational, research or community purposes. So, in this sense, the fear that the wealth given by the state is being taken away and converted into operating costs is unfounded, because the law itself does not allow that to happen. And in order for the university to manage its wealth under these conditions, I think that is a legitimate claim. If, for example, the Member speaks to any rector, former Rector Bódis, at the University of Pécs, for years as the President of the Rector's Conference, he has said that the state should give the wealth, not to manage it, but to own the universities, so that they can carry on this farming. If you look at, say, older universities or otherwise functioning universities, such as Cambridge University, Trinity College, I think maybe the third most capitalized company in England is farming with its own assets; obviously, it was six hundred years ago. If we think it's working there, we don't want to take this opportunity away from this university. It's a public-interest trust fund. Mr Szabolcs Szabó referred to it with only one sentence, but indeed, this foundation has a public interest and a private version. This is the Ripper Lawrence thing that's been going on here. The fact is that in Hungary there are 4,000 companies where owners have just reached the age limit of retirement [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] They just can't leave their company to who. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai's intervention.]] And this form of foundation, by the way, I think gives us a common opportunity to preserve this property in some form, for example, in such a foundation structure. In Germany, Austria, they work and work well. That's what we're trying to do. So I think that I have seen this as a tribute from the Member here, and the number of events that I received was rare, but we took this as a positive thing. [[Szabolcs Szabó laughs and shakes his head. Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] Control mechanism... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. Noise from the benches of opposition parties.]] Yeah, well, that happens, too. Maybe there'll be more later. Let's get back to the university. Congressman, Congressman Hiller asked me, but what about the other universities, Debrecen, Szeged, Pécs? The bad news is that the other universities are trying to improve, and the government supports them in the same way. If you look at the past period of the University of Szeged, how much energy we spend, for example, on building a scientific environment around the University of Szeged in ELI Science Park, which is the property of the University of Szeged, so that the Gyurcsány government has little to do with this. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai's ear to László Palkovics:]] For example, in order to renovate the university building, which did not happen under previous governments, this is typical of Szeged. [[To Dr. Tamás Mellar:]] But I could also say your university. Obviously, as an economist professor at the university, you are involved in the work on the innovation environment built around the University of Pécs. This is about trying to build an economic innovation environment around the University of Pécs, and there is not a small amount of state aid to calculate how much this means, which is necessary for Pécs to work. But because Congressman Pósán is sitting behind you here, in the case of the University of Debrecen, the same thing is happening. If you ask the Chancellor of the University of Debrecen, your rector, or the professors there, what they're dealing with here: I don't think it's what you said, by the way. So I think it's a shame to worry that the other universities aren't getting any better. It's such a shame that if we say we go to the University of Veterinary Medicine, this is Europe's sixth best veterinary science university, they're in the sixth place of the hundred, so they've reached the first hundred. If you ask this university's rector what he thinks about it, I think he'll be positive about it. So it's not the strengthening of centralization, it's the opposite. Well, so we're not thinking about an institution, that's the whole point. On behalf of Congressman Gergely Arató. I think he's a serious educator, but he doesn't seem to have had enough time to prepare, and he didn't look at the bill. He's worried about university autonomy. If you break point 2b of the Nft. amendment, it describes exactly what this is about. The statutes of the private higher education institution may also provide that the autonomy of the higher education institution in relation to the content and methods of research and teaching, without prejudice to the management of the institutional work organisation and to the performance of the tasks defined by the maintainer, may be established as President. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So two sentences: it can be created, it can be a work organisation, and the third is that it does not violate the Fundamental Law. So I would think that the concerns that apply to universities of this type, and this is not just to this university, this also applies to all other private universities, which may not be real. I'm trying to be on time. When we speak, it is very important that we respond to what has been said. In terms of funding higher education, if you look at the figures, they have been growing ever since 2014. If you look at this, Congressman - these are available information, Hungarian Treasury, about the amount of liquid resources that universities have at this moment, I think this is somewhere between HUF 280-300 billion, this is the money that they have in their account. One half of this is a certain kind of advance and the other half is their financing. So that these sources have not increased, this is not entirely so, it is advisable to look at the numbers accurately. What means the future functioning of Corvinus University is two very important things. One is that students who have started the course and are also students with a start in September this year, they end up as they started, if they are Hungarian state scholarships, as Hungarian state scholarships, if they are self-costed students and self-costed students. So the new form of financing doesn't apply. The fact that the number of students will fall to a third is not going to fall to a third, it would not make sense to him, because the university would not be sustainable. A university characterized it by having instructors, students, and activities, so to think that this is not how someone wants to operate it, then why do we do it, so it doesn't make sense. So I would like to disperse the concern that this is going to happen. As a matter of fact, Ménesi út, I believe Congressman mentioned the property on Ménesi út... [[Szabolcs Szabó: Mányoki.]] Manoki? [[Szabolcs Szabó: Mányoki 9.]] Yeah. So the thing is, the University of Public Service campus, as you can see, is developing. Until this thing closes down, the state will make other properties available to you. We also made the property on Ménesi út available to you, but, as the law shows, this property on Ménesi út will also be owned by the Corvinus Foundation, precisely because the foundation can support university education, research, and Corvinus University. So there's so many reasons for that, there's no other reason. I think the state control has been repeatedly said that the state wants to control the operation of this university. Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen. So it's about the state, as its founder, cutting off the relationship with the foundation. So what happens here, as in this type of trust fund, is that when the process is completed, virtually all rights will be transferred by the founder to the board of trustees of the foundation. [[12.20]] This can still be done to a certain point today, but in today's foundation structure, it cannot be passed on to the Board of Governors, it must be kept by the founder. You can hand this over here, too. Congressman asked what the guarantee was. It is necessary to choose people who are part of the profession, science, education, innovation, industry, and to believe and trust that they will think so as long as they are in position, and even when they will elect new members of the Board of Foundation. That's the way this thing works. I know it's hard for us to imagine at the moment, but we have to start at some point. We're hoping this will be a good start. I've been talking about paying students, and I wouldn't want to say anything else about that. I think the appearance of paying students is a very good thing. Péter Ungár thanks Corvinus for his positive work on CEU. This was shown by the fact that the students who graduated from Corvinuson BSc then went to CEU for MSc, because CEU did not have BSc training or Central European University. So I think Corvinus will thank you in some way. About whether it's neoliberal or not, you can argue. Unlike you, I didn't end up at CEU and I'm an engineer, so I wouldn't open this debate right now. I'd like to respond to one thing. You said that the Hungarian government does not support humanities research. I suggest that we look at the proportion of students studying at universities, how much of this is who belongs to STEM areas, i.e. technical, IT, other, and what is not in STEM areas. Although we have improved significantly, in 2012, there were 22 percent STEM students, now 29 percent of the applicants, while the rest is studying in the field of humanities. If you look at universities' research expenditure and compare it with German universities, you can see that universities spend more on these areas in Hungary in all fields, in the fields of humanities, social sciences, economics, than in STEM, natural sciences or IT. So the concern that humanities are negatively affected in any way is not supported by numbers. Germany is a successful country, and I think we still have a place to develop in this area. Tamás Mellar and Congressman Hiller also asked why the Minister of State or Minister of the EMMI is not sitting here. The reason for this is that it is a pilot project, so one of those things, we wanted it to be a business university, so it is more innovative in this sense. Therefore, this was carried by the Ministry of Innovation, because this structure fits better. That's the reason, I think it's a shame to keep dissecting. We agree with Tamás Melár on basic research, applied research and innovation. We agree so much that I didn't say that basic research or applied science wasn't valuable. Is that what they say in the paper? Well, there's a lot of stuff written there, and they also said I didn't publish it after 2014. It is advisable to take a good look at these. I don't think what the papers say is true. The importance of these is absolutely clear. So much so that what we have developed for the Hungarian research institution structure and funding is included in this way exactly. The financing of basic research, the separation from innovation, is not good to confuse. Both of them and all three have their own roles and places. If they can build on each other, it is very good, it is advisable, if not, it is also a result in a research project, if there is no result, because it is also a statement. Of course, here is a specific thing that is happening in European societies, that the community increasingly wants the research activity to end with some results. What took place in Germany in the early 1970s, in the Netherlands in the 1990s, and in France, or, let's say, in the transformation of the research network in the East German Academy, in 90, was fed on precisely this case. It is very important, and this is what the Hungarian higher education strategy is based on, that the needs of the labour market, the world around us, should be taken into account by researchers and universities in some way. That's what this is about, nothing else. Anyone who thinks beyond that can't see it. Some serious social issues have been raised. Since he is an economist, he obviously understands better what happens to big capitalists, what the structure of the Hungarian economy looks like. I'd like to argue about who's been doing his job for the last 30 years. We may not be where we should be in this area, but this will be another debate. What concerns the concern is that so far civil servants are now applied according to the Labour Code: the flexibility of the Labour Code, which means performance, higher income, is given. The same protection mechanisms can be installed as those in the Kjt. are defined. This is a Hungarian peculiarity, it is a university operating in a different way. I do not think that anyone expressed their concern because, let's say, in the case of Hungarian ecclesiastical institutions or private institutions, colleagues working there are not Kjt. According to him, they're employees. Why MOL and Richter shares, and why can't these shares be sold? On one side, it could be said that equity is a dynamic thing that can be filmed and done a lot with it. The government thought, however, that it was basically the responsibility for the university that made us believe that this property, the founding property, could not be sold. Of course, there are sections where this would be positive, elsewhere negative, but for the time being, this is our proposal for university security, and I think that this is a rather legitimate need. What the foundation uses and how it uses all other assets in the future is a matter for the foundation. But the security that this start-up of HUF 380 billion worth of founding property means that the government does not want to endanger it in any way. And I think that the fact that we do not allow a part of the state to be sold in this sense for a particular purpose is morally acceptable. Mr Szabolcs Szabó said that this funding is not stable. However, a number of forms of funding have been opened, which, by the way, is not available to a state university. As I said, state universities know that, because they also teach at ELTE, they have many types of funding opportunities. Here they open their storerooms. I think he can manage this fortune, or whatever it comes with, optimally manage it. That was a very important aspect. Your question about why Corvinus University is: I probably won't tell you a big secret by saying that Corvinus University is just a pilot project. So what we're talking about is that in the case of other universities, we'd like to find a flexible form of operation that doesn't apply to a university. It operates according to its rules as a government office, but as a more university. One possibility of this is this kind of operation, which is described in this law. There are different versions of this, and there are other forms of operation. They will also be developed soon. The question is what we demand of the Corvinus. Well, there's a problem here. The reason the state or government is doing this is because we want Corvinus University to be a good university. But if you interrupt the state as founder of the relationship with the foundation, you can't impose such requirements. This must be resolved by the board of trustees and by the university itself. Therefore, the condition of good functioning has been determined, but what that means is for the university to break it down for itself. This falls within the scope of university freedom and autonomy. I think that the state should define this at the level that it described in the statutes when it was founded. That is what I wanted to say very briefly, and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-56	Thank you very much, Minister. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congressman Gergely Arató of the DK Group, please.
u2019-02-19-57	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congressman Nacsa, who referred to the models in Southeast Asia, has no luck because I have had the pleasure of researching this in a Hungarian higher education institution. Therefore, I can tell him that in Singapore, for example, what is considered to be the world's leading educational model in the Southeast Asian world, and which is a very successful model of six state universities, three of which are among the best universities in the world. So it's very difficult to argue that state college can't function well, it just requires different rules. I'll answer that, Minister. [[Dr. László Palkovics: Those are not state universities.]] Those are state universities, dear Minister. [[Dr. László Palkovics: But they do not operate according to state university.]] The second thing: I had the pleasure of reading the bill, as opposed to you, and not only the Fidesz, sorry the KDNP always forgets that it's a separate party's prep, so I know what's in this bill. And if you listened to the Minister's reply, you could hear that Minister did not deny that there were no state-funded students at this university. There's gonna be some other construction that's gonna be something. And Minister, he did not deny that at this university, the president would indeed be able to establish a work organisation that would distract academic autonomy decisions. [[12.30]] Because it can be said that it is written in the law, but that autonomy must be respected, we can see from the chancellors' operation, Minister, what it is like when you respect autonomy. They do not respect it, they create the legal opportunity to achieve autonomy. As far as the National Basics are concerned, honourable Member, our National Basics Plan was intended to teach all Hungarian students to read intelligently, to have basic mathematical abilities, to have basic communication skills. There's nothing more national than a patriotic case. It's not the bullshit and it's not the lyrics that make you a patriot. Finally, I would like to welcome Mr Bodis, Secretary of State, and I would like to say that he has a seat here, and we are looking forward to your opinion. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Pósán is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-59	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in other cases, Finland is always used as an eternal example, Mr Hiller, Congresswoman Kunhalmi, and so on and so forth. Let us safely add that not only the Anglo-Saxon, but also in Finland, most universities follow a similar logic and operational model. So if one of these is an example, then I think that it is not certain that it should be seen as a devil in this respect either. As is logically related to what Peter Ungár said. He said that this proposal was neoliberal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that universities have had basically wealth for centuries, the University of Debrecen was created between the two world wars by the city's donation of a very large amount of land assets, other real estate and movable property for this purpose. It's not a neoliberal thing, it's been a part of the university's operation for a long time. We should study it a little, but history has a purpose and opportunities. What you lacked is that humanities are being persecuted, and that is not the reality, and that is partly said, Minister. I would like to draw your attention to how much there is in the range of applications that fit into this issue. Congressman Hiller said that the model so far has failed. There are many kinds of logics to see what is effective or ineffective, and I don't dispute that. I would like to point out one thing: for example, last year's balance sheet total of the University of Debrecen is HUF 170 billion. Of this amount, roughly 70 billion are state resources, which includes the patient care section, which is linked to the clinic. It seems that universities where they manage things well are already able to appear in the market to a significant extent as an economic player, and it is precisely the case that the framework of the Public Finance Act significantly slows down this exercise. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is up to Congressman Péter Ungár of the LMP Group.
u2019-02-19-61	Thank you very much. You said there's tuition, it's just a cost. That was his history. Let's just open this on a philosophical basis. Bence Rétvári told me that it was untrue that Fidesz-KDNP had made higher education a student, it has always been against tuition, and it will be in Fidesz-KDNP. Then what you said was that there was cost, which is actually the tuition, and we already agreed that these two things are the same, then you are... you are not, because we know that Bence Rétvári made false statements when he told me that there is no tuition; because there is, it is called cost. Only then, in this very simple fact, which is like, I don't know, we're in a building, not in the open air, in this kind of fact, let's agree that at that time you've made higher education a student, but it's called cost-effective, okay? The other thing is that I expected a lot of things in this House, but that my fellow Member Nacsa is saying such nice things about the involvement of private capital, that it is not from the devil to involve private capital in public institutions... I knew that Fidesz was the youth organization of SZDSZ, but what KDNP has to do with this has not yet been made clear to me by the history I have to study. The thing is, I understand what you're saying, and Minister has not denied the need to increase the company's share of what is added to higher education, and to increase the disciplines that are easier to use in a multi-national economy, you can say that, this is a legitimate philosophy in the world, they can give Western examples. After all, there are liberal higher education policies in many Western European countries, only this neoliberalism itself; it is defined as such. You can say a lot of things about this that's good, because it's the Anglo-Saxon tradition. There are many other things in the Anglo-Saxon tradition, which is bad, which does not need to be brought to Hungary. I would recommend to you that you do not take over from the SZDSZ because it is something foreign, you have to bring it to Hungary and it will be good. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-62	Thank you very much. Minister asked for the floor.
u2019-02-19-63	Just very briefly, I do not think that this is the place for this debate, that it is cost, tuition. So the Hungarian state is the maintainer of Hungarian state universities. Students from the Hungarian state give state scholarships to students who meet certain conditions, that is what the draw of points is about. We draw a point and each university has a number in some form. With all other students who do not receive a Hungarian state scholarship, we are not paying a fee that the university considers appropriate, but the cost of the training. There's a difference between cost and price. The cost we actually charge is what it costs, and the tuition is what we determine from somewhere. So that's why cost is not tuition. Now, you can polemize on this, of course, for a long time, but I think it's exactly about students who didn't get there because of their ability to get in, paying their own costs, not tuition, paid at a private university. That might surprise you again, because you probably haven't dealt with it in the last few years. To surprise you, Congressman, I wonder, but today I have been amazed at many things about you. So that's the difference between the two, so if you understand that as an economist, I'd be happy to talk to you about it. [[Péter Ungár: I started by not being an economist.]] Thank you.
u2019-02-19-64	Thank you very much, Minister. István Hiller, Vice-President of the MSZP Group, is next. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2019-02-19-65	It's just a few brief remarks, because it's not necessary to talk about it for a long time. The result of the PIRLS survey has indeed improved last time, and it has fallen so much during your governance that we are there as a result of the current improvement in 2008. The second is that higher education institutions should be able to use their property more freely. Please, when I tabled the amendment of the law on this in 2009, and we wanted to give even more freedom, because we wanted to give the higher education institutions a free business opportunity with businesses and companies, then, I say not to Minister, some of the Fidesz Members were already Members of Parliament, everything but decent people. So it was a counterwind when we were accused of selling out state property. Now I'm reading how forward this is. The third point is that the definition of a state scholarship on a performance basis, who does not measure it with his performance, pays cost, and you have declared a referendum against it in 2008. This was actually the model against which you declared a referendum. Now I hear, in fact, in a bill, that this is the essence of a change of model: if you do well, the state will reward this achievement with a scholarship, who does not perform well, not. In 2008, 3 million 100,000 people were carried to the urn against this. Now we're here 11 years later. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From the KDNP Group comes Lőrinc Nacsa.
u2019-02-19-67	Thank you very much. I would only respond to one sentence, Mr President. Gergely Arató said that I claimed that state universities could not function well, say, in Southeast Asia. I didn't say that. I said that there are many positive examples when non-state universities, for example, operate in a similar structure, such as Singapore, where there are five state universities, but there are more non-state universities. I wonder if you're such a good friend of the Singapore model, what would you say if, say, there was a bill here, that anyone who studied a state scholarship at a state university in Singapore would have to work double in the public sector afterwards, and you'd be the first to wave the flag here, how to create such laws? That model you're praising right now, that's what's in it. There their place of national identity is, by the way, the emphasis of education, which you often struggle against. Although it is just that new slogan, Ferenc Gyurcsány found in the dictionary, after fifty years, the word 'patriot', and now he has said it several times. But the national identity you are constantly fighting is in the focus of education, for example. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-68	Thank you very much. Mr Szabolcs Szabó is next. Here you go. [[12.40]]
u2019-02-19-69	Thank you very much. I would like to go back to what the Minister said, but it is the founding rights, and it will give us a guarantee that they will be students. On the one hand, I would just like to point out that the exercise of the founding right is about exhausted in the appointment of the Board, and according to the law, the founding rights are transferred to the Board by the state. So this is a typical misconception, let's put it mildly. On the other hand, the Minister was very eager to explain how good it would be, since the university will be freed from 1.4 billion expenses, because building C will be owned by him. The only thing the Minister forgets is probably because he's not an economist, that if I take over a building, I have the costs of what he had before; he has to be maintained, depending on the contract, the operation has to be paid, so it's not an extra profit in this respect. Thirdly, I would like to mention one thing: here several people mentioned on the pro-government side that private donations could then be involved. We see how well this works in Hungarian football, and it is not by chance that all the other universities are afraid of it, that this little private donation will be transferred to Corvinus, because it is so near NER. So I guess we're right to be afraid of that. In addition, it is best not to mention applications because Hungary performs outstandingly in the Central European context, for example, in relation to ERC applications. Do you know which two institutions are generating this? CEU and MTA are research networks, and these are exactly the two that are being beaten up. And don't think it's going to be possible to put him in his place, and I didn't make that up, László Lovász writes this down in the MTA's annual report, which, by the way, the Cultural Committee has been refusing to negotiate for a year. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-70	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the two-minute speaking cycle. There will be regular speeches. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, please.
u2019-02-19-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I don't see the Minister right now, unfortunately he's out of the room, but I would like to say that I still don't understand exactly how he gets into this story, and I don't think the problem is with me. Because the justification he just stated is that this is a pilot project, a pilot project. [[Interjection.]] Yes, it is a self-leading project, and therefore Minister Kásler is supposed to stop by as his double, trying to do this, and if it goes well, it is likely that Minister Kásler will do the rest. I beg you very much not to jump into the seat of Minister Süli; let's say I do not want to see Antal Rogán try the Paks II. To do a project, just like that in a pilot. So, I don't understand what this chaos is about in the government, there are supposed to be ministries, there are leaders, they are ministers, and they have a jurisdiction, they have an area; I would definitely think it's higher education, and I don't think I'm alone in this room, but maybe I'm not in this country either. So we would like to ask Minister Palkovic a little more explanation as to why he wants to carry this project through at all costs, and more precisely why he wants to carry it through. The other thing is that I was really honored to speak after István Hiller, Tamás Mellar or even Szabó Szabolcs here, the KDNP propagandaists broke this curve because I think I speak among all those who are initiated experts in this field, teach at university, research at university, or have held an important political position that regulated the functioning of the academic sphere in Hungary. I don't have a history like that, but I'm an econ student, and I did my PhD there, and I was a young researcher at the MTA, so I'm a footman of the system you're about to transform, and I'd bet a relatively large amount if László Kövér didn't take it out of my account, that if I was 15 years old, by the time this system got here, I probably wouldn't be able to go to econ, and I think there are a lot of people in this country. I'd like to tell you that that university gave me a lot. It gave us a world view, it gave us system criticism, we were already studying alternative economics there, and it could be because teachers who were there did not want to serve market needs, but researched trends and tried to predict what economic careers should be created in Hungary in order to reach the top. For example, we have Tamás Melár, who has also been involved in chaos research, and has predicted the effects of the change of regime. I remember very well one of his models: it was in his model at the time that Hungary could not sufficiently implement the change of regime, and it could not bring into the system the innovation that was needed to date is living vividly in my memory. I am very sad that I have to argue with you now, in those days we thought even differently about Fidesz, I didn't think that I would ever be the fiercest opponent here in the Hungarian Parliament, but history was just like that. István Hiller's words have been full of the political stakes of this match, which Mr Palkovics has taken on for some mysterious reason, and that the Fidesz here is actually making a bill against himself of his own age and implementing what they have ever acted against. I would like to point out here that, as an independent Member in this debate, I can speak at the end of the debate, or at least not at the beginning, but this is positive in the sense that I can study your speech and I have drawn up a little dictionary. Your competitiveness means that you're robbing, so if you're talking about Fidesz competitiveness, you're trying to rob; the ranking is based on how much Fidesz likes some arrangement; autonomy is clearly a fidesz control in a particular process, at least from what we've just seen here, which I've seen unfold. There's been a lot of talk, but in America and England, there's a series of universities that you want to do here. I would like to tell you that this is not America, so this is Hungary. That's one of them. And the other is that you have the popular political maneuver to look around in different countries, to see international examples, toss them together, put them together from different countries, and say that there is an international example of this, too; otherwise, this is how our entire electoral rights system came together in your transformation. However, I would like to draw Mr Palkovic's attention to the fact that if we buy an elephant's ear and a rabbit's tail, and if we put an ant body there, it will not be a functioning animal. So for my part, I can say with such simple words that it would be good to stop this pilot project because it has a very significant risk, and I do not think that this has been properly considered. If properly considered, it is not likely that the entire opposition would object to this. Here, however, it must be pointed out that there was a polemia, whether or not Fidesz is pressing me now or not in relation to education. It squeezes me. It squeezes and takes space. I can prove that by fact. We saw a massive withdrawal of funds from the system until 2013, reduced the number of public-funded seats, and increased the point limits, so that's what happened in the system, and let's not forget what the impact was. The effect of this has been that the number of graduates in Hungary has virtually decreased. We have faced EU trends. So what has happened is that the average percentage of graduates in all other EU Member States has increased by 1.8 percent, and we have decreased by about that. The withdrawal of resources and the associated reduction in the number of seats resulted in a reduction in the number of graduates in Hungary, and this is a problem, because to date, all the statistics that we know prove that our chances of starting life are better with a degree in our pockets. In fact, if we ever get a degree in our lives, our opportunities will increase. We used to learn that the best investment in economics is education; that as long as we're students, we may be poor, because the person who works makes more money than we do because we invest in our future, but then it brings you in. And you're taking away this future action from these people, but you're taking away a lot more, because people who study have more insight into the world and have more opportunities in all aspects. This is why we are fighting on the opposition side, which is what I saw from the speakers, in order to open the channels of mobility wide in Hungarian: from a small village, from the Great Plain, a student should have the same chance of getting into econ. From the district after he graduated from Tolty. I will never forget Ágnes Ostolikan, who was a politician of education for this parliament, he comes from Chengersima, near the Ukrainian border, from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Ági Ostolykán told the Hungarian Prime Minister: I could do that by becoming an intellectual, but I'm not sure, and I'm sure I couldn't do that in the current system. So, it's just a bet. And that's why I've tried to tell you, through the example of Agnes Ostolyka, through my own example and many examples, that a random minister can come in here with a pilot project and tell you that performance matters here; show in economic life that performance matters so that Lőrinc Mészáros doesn't win everything in this country! But why do they want to show it in a place where it's virtually a place for a person to live for life by whether or not he gets into higher education, or how he can be in public education at all? [[12.50]] And here we can talk about public education, because what István Hiller said from the PISA ranking, it's all true. Hungary is on a slope, so it is falling in terms of education. We're talking about CEU, as you say, Soros University. The reason why everything you say about education is infinitely uncredited is that here is the sacred goal of Corvinus being in the first two hundred, because you, Fidesz-KDNP, are the party alliance that drove Hungary's best performing university out of this country. In particular, the CEU was in the first hundred of the world's five disciplines, including economics. The other one, which is doing very well in this regard, is the Institute of Economics of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. These are the first hundreds of institutions in the world ranking, one of which was because they had already driven away, the other suffers at the moment. You can say virtually anything about this education, everyone will know that you are making political decisions. And I think that's the point of this debate. There are different details to be taken out of the story here, but what I can tell you is that your competitiveness always means robbery, and unfortunately, here the colleagues here have told you about the building assets from the foundation, how to get the wealth that is now in the hands of a state university, to play it out so that people who are in the system barely notice it. I have one more thing to say. The double speech is infinitely brazen, and I'm sorry, I can't say it any other way, but it's in the top 3 in terms of Fidesz's political trademarks, the continuous double speech. CEU has been humiliated, saying that it is outrageous that a Hungarian degree and an American degree will be given, and that this is a problem. Practically now, when they talk about launching more English language training to attract more foreign students, there is already a Chinese-Hungarian degree training at Corvinus University. It's a double training, and they started an MBA training together with the University of Fudan in China, and they're issuing two degrees. All I'm asking is, if this is not a problem for this university, then why was there a problem for the other university? There's only one answer to that, because Soros. But, you know, it shows the political motivation behind all your intentions. I am here in this debate because, on the one hand, I am pleased to see that the Minister has come in, he is speaking to Parliament, and I was hoping that we could have a little talk about this issue, but unfortunately he is not in the Chamber now, and on the other hand I wanted to tell you that this whole story, which has been put down on the table, is very transparent, and, for example, with this one moment, with this Chinese-Hungarian degree, it is clear that it is a purely politically motivated project. A lot of people have been calling on the opposition recently for Fidesz's vision of Fidesz, but what the opposition's vision of education is. I think that this debate and opposition speakers have made it perfectly clear how Fidesz and the opposition think differently about education and the role of education in the future of Hungary. You have created a system of serious lack of resources, which is in a vegetative state, you want to put the institutions on a government leash, or you're slowly bleeding them out. You shouldn't forget for a second about the killing campaign you're doing with the MTA. What I can tell you is that politicians are going to have faith here in addition to the fact that, for example, the age limit for compulsory education should be increased to 18 years, that I have to look at the wages of beginner teachers threefold and that we should double the budget for education as a whole, because money has to be put into the system, because if it is worth the money of the state, it is education. It's all XXI. The leading sector of the century. Yesterday we were at the Suzuki factory, which is what you can read about in the Hungarian press. The case that happens to the government's strategic partner to fire the union leader and Suzuki has done this before shows exactly where the economic model you have built is going to lead. What works in this country is that it has become in the interests of companies that are subject to labour law, from labour law through wages, and now higher education through vocational training, which do not comply with Hungarian laws, or, if they are enforced, are laws that are hard to call laws on people's lives at any level. Look at the new labour code, but there is this work culture, most of the Hungarian jobs have no social dialogue, employees' rights are not dealt with, and trade union representation is impossible. So, here's the thing, you want to serve companies in this state, these are the government's strategic partners. It is not that the government would have taken the message of this century and instead created a competitive sector of high added value instead of assembly plants, it is not that they would have raised wages in the public sector, that it would then push itself through the competition sector because in a healthy economy, this is how it works, that the public sector's wage increase will push the competition sector and not raise itself in the competitive sector in order to become a cashier, but will actually destroy Hungarian workers' lives by fleeing the country, and then a random minister will come in with a pilot project and tell them that they will serve the interests of these multinational companies even more. It's a big problem when a government lets go of the reins, because then the horses get loose. This very lassez-faire argument that the market will regulate everything, we've learned a lot at the university that we're talking about today. When the market starts to regulate, it's never good for the little man. When the market is regulated, it is never about social sensitivity. When the market regulates, it's never about the smart kid in the small village having the same opportunity as the II. He's a district kid. He's also a smart kid. It's a difference in world view between us. The thing is, it's a difference between you and me in the world, so I'm sure I won't support this bill, and I see a lot of risks in it. We see the intention of Fidesz to do this, we see that you don't respect scientists, you don't respect intellectuals, you don't respect teachers, and you don't respect students. And a very big problem if a politician gets to the point of having an argument with the president of the MTA. I think that the Prime Minister of Hungary could not afford to do so, and it would be up to Viktor Orbán himself to deal with this situation. Now we're here, and even the Minister's gone, so I'm leaving, too. Thank you.
u2019-02-19-72	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I was born in Karcagon in a family that wasn't very rich. My parents spent their whole lives fighting to make me and my brother the first graduate in the family. It was very, very much for my parents to be able to fulfill my wish and dream together, because obviously their financial support was needed to get me to the University of Economics of Budapest, the predecessor of Corvinus University. Of course, it also took a good high school, and I would like to join in here what Minister Hiller said earlier, that public education is a huge problem in Hungary today. You know, the public education where we had the opportunity, for example, to go to bilingual high school because I could go to this kind of school, the two-language high school in Szolnok, where last year the ceiling broke down and a pole was placed in the hole, and then the students decorated it for Christmas, so that there would still be a Christmas atmosphere at school. That school, Katalin Varga High School, that bilingual school where I could study, it gave me a lot, and it gave me a language exam, for example. So I could apply to the University of Economics and study there in initial education, then in international relations, and then even get PhD at the University of Economics. This was born when I was born a Karcagi girl succeeded. I did it because I obviously learned and prepared a lot, but I managed to do it because my parents supported me with a lot of resignations, and I managed because I received various scholarships for my academic achievement, and I also received social support from the university, and I was able to live in a dorm. This made it possible for me to study at the University of Economics and then to teach, and indeed to welcome one or two of my students here in Parliament, a disciple who will certainly vote for this type of destruction of Corvinus University. Look, I accept everything, and I accept that you like experimenting. If the experiment were to end well, I would be happy to support it, unfortunately, in the last few years, since you have been ruling and viewing Hungary as a great experimental laboratory, the end of all your experiments was that something exploded in the metaphorical sense of the word. I am very happy to support any project, a case that brings Hungary to the West and not to the East. In this, you are, to say you, more pro-Eastern and less careful looking at Western countries, and this bill is precisely as your policy is, and as the Minister has spoken here it certainly does not represent the modern, innovative, forward-looking policy that this country really needs. [[13.00]] You are talking about training, talking about things not only in this debate, but also in the parliamentary debate in general, which means an avitt world. In this Parliament, in addition to our existing political debate, we should talk about issues such as digitalisation and Hungary's challenge in this regard is how we can act on this matter. We should talk about issues such as environmental protection, but we are still told of the concentration of particulate matter in some settlements. We should be talking about how we can prepare the citizens of Hungary for the challenges that are coming more and more often. The only thing you can talk about and think about is how you can steal. It's quite obvious that's what this is going to be about. You have been talking about competitiveness and innovation. Tell me what competitiveness there is in Hungary when your most talented businessmen, previously unsupported by no one, are sitting on billions of dollars today! What competitiveness are you talking about, let's say, in the public sector, when your fellow parties and your fellow factions are sitting in the various positions of the state sphere, including organisations that have otherwise been said to be independent? What kind of competitiveness are you talking about when the Prime Minister's son-in-law and daughter can easily break into any business because he is the Prime Minister's daughter and son-in-law? I didn't graduate from the Budapest University of Economics because my father or my mother were someone in that system. I was able to go to college because my parents helped me because I worked for it, and because the state thought that if I was diligent, if I was persistent, I would get social support, and I could get into college. Today, with this law and all the other higher education preparatory decisions you make, people like me can't get into college. I don't understand why they're doing this. Why do you want to stop your high school students today or your elementary school students in Karcagon or Csengersima or Budapest, whose parents are not rich, and who may not be able to get their own language exams to go to university? Why do you want to prevent people like me from getting into the Budapest University of Economics and achieving their goal? I just don't get it. I can't believe you'd want to hurt this country. I think that you are being misled and misled by people who think that science is some sort of, I don't know, gentlemanly misbehaviour, that social science is useless to this country, that it is young, otherwise poor... And here I see the Secretary of State nodding. [[To Peter Cseresnyés:]] I would like to say to the Secretary of State that without social sciences, this country would not even be where it is today. It's terribly important, and you have to understand... [[Péter Cseresnyés: I agreed with you, Congresswoman, I nodded...]] No, well... [[Péter Cseresnyés:...and in that case they could write correctly!]] You don't like social sciences in a terrible way, that's quite clear. [[L. Simon László: What?! Peter Cseresnyés: Who said that?!]] The way you behave with the scientific world, the university world, clearly shows that you despise this scientific world, and all of this is because you can't stand the fact that there are people, not only in the world of politics, but also in the world of science, who point out what terrible shortcomings you are facing. Only these shortcomings, I think, could be overcome precisely through science and education, so it might be more useful for my fellow Members to enroll in some university instead of sitting here. The CEU, for example, is no longer known, but it would be worth it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Sure! Nádor Street! Peter Ungár intervenes.]] Because there are training courses that would help you to see the world differently. You will prevent talented, but not wealthy, girls and boys from going to the Budapest University of Economics and achieving their dreams. You guys have been at the forefront of college destruction before, because it's not enough that the university that I had as my first university is essentially trying to destroy it, that you guys have eliminated the independent officer training during your administration, and that you have terminated the National Defence University of Zrínyi, which was my first job. So I'm starting to think that maybe they're going according to where the opposition representatives went here. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. L. Simon László: Uh-oh!]] And where they studied. If this is the method, then I would like to tell you that the next university, where I might enroll, will be the National University of Public Service. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Maybe they'll start some kind of destruction there, too. (Development in the ranks of the opposition. ) Fellow Members! I think the issue of education is a national matter. What children learn, what skills we develop, what knowledge they have, how many languages they speak... By the way, I would just like to say to all of them, and I would like to open a parentheses here, that those who today want to force college students or college students to get a language exam, please think about how many language exams they have here in Parliament. This is so important. So I'm happy to tell you here how much I have, but you don't have to get as much as I got, just one, just one! You expect such things... [[L. Simon László: Be modest! Barely!]] I'm modest because I won't tell you how many there are [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why I don't need as much as I got. I want you to do one thing, what you're supposed to get from your college students today. You obviously know that access to university is still extremely difficult for financial reasons, because a lot of people can't afford it, especially in rural areas, small settlements, especially in families where they're not too wealthy, and you're still charging them an extra cost. In addition, with the conversion of Corvinus, it is obvious that the other opposition colleagues here have already said that they want to create an elite university. No, but I'm not surprised that after the National University of Public Service, there is a need for only a small circle of economics at the University of Economics to learn, obviously, from the descendants of you and those close to you, because the current rector of the university, who was planted at the University of Economics after ancestors like Andorka Rudolf, if his name says anything. [[L. Simon László: Say it! Say it!]] Or Iván Berend T., if his name says anything, or Zsolt Rostoványi, who was a very famous head of department at the time, so after such rectors, András Lánczi, who was only able to comment on what he said two years ago: what he said today was corruption... that I added what was called corruption, that is practically the main policy of Fidesz. So, here's Corvinus University, which could be the dream of a lot of little girls or little boys in Karcag. You're creating a process that keeps these girls and boys from getting in. On the other hand, you'll have the opportunity to study for people who are always on their own feet, who are just gonna step into different business lines, and they're just gonna steal it, under the leadership of a rector who thinks what we think is corruption is your policy. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is not competitiveness, it is not national, it has nothing to do with Hungary! It's not a patriot! This is unfair, unfair to the future generation, unfair to those who have dreams to study in this country. Because you know, fellow Members, how will it end? The end is that whoever can do it, who may be supported with a scholarship, not you, but all sorts of organizations, will simply try to leave this country. You are trying to do this by trying to destroy higher education in this way. I would like to ask you, it will obviously be very difficult for you to convince your own faction to reject this amendment in collective terms, but think about your own life, how you became Members of Parliament, how you got your diploma, how you got your first job. There must be a lot of you who do not owe your degree to your relationship system, not because your mother or father was someone in the previous system or in the current system. There's obviously a lot of you who've been struggling to get into college. Think of it when you vote on this law, that today there are a lot of young girls and young boys in Hungary who want to fight terribly, but are deprived of the possibility of going to university of economics with this bill. The Democratic Coalition, as has been said earlier, does not support this bill. The kind of pilot project that the minister has imagined here, we think we should start with a completely different form, a normal conversation, not the coming of the Minister of Technology who is beating up the Hungarian Academy of Sciences right now. And I'm not saying this, and we're not saying that you're speaking to the scientific world in an invaluable tone, that's what your former minister is saying to the public, who is quite conservative, but can't bear the terrible Mekk Elek-contarium work you do in science and higher education in general. Of course, I would assume the good of you, but I believe that you have the most problems not only with the scientific world, but not only with education, but also with the fact that if people, young people, start going to university at home in Hungary and are not forced abroad, there will be a lot of educated people in Hungary who will see through you who will say that enough of what you are doing with this country is enough. [[13.10]] So, my fellow Members, of course, we have no doubt that this will be voted on. And we have no doubt that this bill is obviously part of keeping as many people away from universities as possible so that they can spend 400 hours of overtime on them from the various slave laws; so that those otherwise extremely talented young people who have just been born or have recently been born in Karcagon, who have the dream or the idea of going to the university of economics or have the opportunity to go to the university of economics, but with your non-existent policy of higher education, rather than destructive politics, will be able to get them to work in a factory like Suzuki, where union leaders are fired when they form a trade union. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-74	Thank you, Congresswoman. From the group of the LMP, Mr Péter Ungár applied. I'd like to speak again, please.
u2019-02-19-75	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask for help from the pro-government benches. I checked the Hungarian interpreter manual dictionary, where in addition to the tuition fee, the amount of money the school collects from students. Then, if we accept this impartial definition because I don't think the Hungarian interpreter comes from the balliberal mite, I understand that the money the school collects from students, say, in this case at Corvinus or anywhere else, then what is it? So how would you define that? I mean, if you answer that question, then the logical question that my fellow Member Hiller asked me is what was the problem of Fidesz in 2008-09, if you could answer that question, would be wonderful, because I do not understand exactly how the two would fit together. So... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] My fellow Member Nacsa, please tell me how you define tuition fees, on the other hand, what the Minister called self-cost, how different from his tuition definition, and if there is a logical match in these two, how does this relate to the 2008-09 referendum and the Fidesz referendum, which was also about a similar system. So if you could shed light on this, I think you could account for the more than three million Hungarian citizens who have given you the legitimacy to sit here now, based on your politics against tuition. Compared to this, they introduced the I don't know what, this cost, which is the same as tuition. So I think this would be good. That's why it would be good, too, because if, at least with the honesty that the Minister said in this debate, yes, it's a tuition fee, and he nodded. [[Péter Cseresnyés: He didn't say!]] At least we would know that the same thing would come to health care when they introduced something there that would not be called a visitation fee, but something else, money, that we would pay at the order, or then the hospital's daily allowance will come in under something else, so we know what else is coming. Maybe they'll privatize the education, reappear a star of my childhood, Ágnes Horváth here in the benches. So what else is to be expected from you, in which you do not change your opinion on the point and position of the meeting? That would be a wonderful answer. By the way, I even thought about the tuition, if you didn't consider it a tuition fee, but it's just a cost, and I think it could mean that it was renamed that it was a completely different thing, and I looked at it here earlier, and it wasn't called tuition fees in the previous governments either, but it was called a training contribution; and if you look at the exact question that was asked in the social referendum, there was no tuition fee. So just because you called it tuition doesn't mean you have to name it that way. So my request would be that, based on the Hungarian interpreter's manual dictionary, it would be defined why this is not a tuition fee, which is now paid to the school institutions by students. I mean, if that was already defined, if you could also tell me how different this is than the tuition that had been introduced by the previous governments, that would be perfect. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-02-19-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Mr Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, As a former Corvinus student, I would also like to pay a few seconds of silence to the memory of my former university. [[He's taking a few seconds break. L. Simon László: Very good!]] Because Corvinus University, as we know it, is obviously going to end. And when my fellow Members here on the opposition side are trying to figure out the reason for this, or even less informed fellow citizens are scratching their heads as to why you are doing this, why there is this change of model, which obviously involves eliminating the values so far, they forget that the operation of Fidesz is always governed by two very simple logics: power and money, the cementing of their own power, and the amount of money that can be stolen from the public fortune itself. [[L. Simon László: You're talking about yourself!]] Their power is also threatened by independent power centres and, where appropriate, professional scientific workshops, so they are doing everything they can to eliminate them, regardless of whether they are opposition parties, academic research centres or, where appropriate, universities whose autonomy has been limited and impaired. This function as a foundation, according to your bullshit, will result in great independence from the future Corvinus University. Let's see how independent you are of Fidesz. This freak named KESMA, this is also a foundation, which is, of course, perfectly independent of the governing parties, and in practice, the most loyal Fidesz party knights are sitting in his curatorium, and if one of them happens to have an independent thought, which he dares even to voice, then it will be removed. We see that this half a thousand-fidesz media products foundation was also created to say that it is formally completely independent, even from their oligarchs, but in practice, nothing and no one has ever been ordered to be under more restrictive partying. Now, that's what's gonna happen to the successor of Corvinus University, because it's number one. It already tells us what this story is about. At the very beginning, they wrote that there should be no doubt that they would be accidentally forgotten by their limited - ability employees. He said that this public-interest trust fund should be established in such a way that the Board of Trustees of the Foundation is appointed to exercise the full range of founding rights in the articles of association. Let's translate: you fill this up with state money, state assets, the state ownership of MOL and Richter, then implant the Fidesz party soldiers, and then say that from here on out, these Fidesz party soldiers, as a curatorium, will exercise their founding rights. Therefore, once there is a change of government and regime in Hungary, the current Hungarian government will not be entitled to replace the members of this board, but to appoint each other by the newly appointed Fidesz curators. We get it, right? ! So there is an independent power and financial centre, which will take over a significant part of the state's wealth, hundreds of billions of forints of public-owned shares so far. So the Hungarian people's wealth is transformed into a controlled property controlled by Fidesz party soldiers, losing its public wealth, as has already been the case in so many cases. And from then on, representatives of the Hungarian state, not the representatives of the Hungarian government, will decide in the general assembly of MOL and Richter, not the representatives of the Hungarian government, but the Fidesz party soldiers who are now delegated by you. That's one of the problems, that's the money in this story. And the other thing that Professor Mellar has already discussed, I think, is that from now on, academic autonomy, the freedom of conscience and belief of university teachers will become a forgotten, past concept, because through the board of trustees, you will fire and punish whoever you want in an instant. The fact that so far higher education or the academic sphere has been a relatively free profession, from which a stable existential basis could be criticized by the current government, if they do not agree on a professional basis, it will cease to exist from now on. [[L. Simon László: Is that your only task? Nacsa Lőrinc: It's like his job! The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the task of all responsible intellectuals, and this is what you will do not only in the case of Corvinus, but if you will operate this model at all universities, you will apply this repression to all academic intellectuals working in higher education. So when some people here are obviously looking for ideological beliefs based on good intentions behind their actions, of course, there is no such thing. So it doesn't matter to you that you're pursuing a neoliberal or oconservative policy as long as you're able to maximize money and wealth. That's what your policy is about in Corvinus and in all other cases. Thank you for your patience. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-02-19-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. If Congresswoman is willing to take her place, I'll give you the floor. Because I can only give it to you if you're in your seat. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Hallelujah!]] We'll wait. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea. Here you go. [[13.20]]
u2019-02-19-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want to comment on this agenda. [[L. Simon László: Then you don't have to! Nacsa Lawrence: You don't have to!]] because we have an excellent topic manager, but we do have to, because I consider that we should summarize where this law and the real legislative will and the real economic and political will lie. When we want to change something, we ask if it needs to be changed. Did it have to change the legal status of Corvinus University, its role in the Hungarian administrative and public administration system, its place to improve the professional quality of the university? My answer to that is no. Because the state budget, whether you like it or not, can afford excellent instructors, the Hungarian state budget, if they didn't steal and waste, it would take great education programs, if they didn't steal and loot public money, then in this country there would be all social and national strategic issues. This is because both the use of EU funds and the use of the Hungarian state budget for investments have two to three times the price factor compared to normal in Hungary; this has been going on for nine years. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: But economic growth is 5 percent! The president's ringing the bell.]] It wasn't a big story in this country to bring the budget deficit to below 3 percent when they raised the VAT to 27 percent, because if that hadn't worked, you could have actually said that they were really clumsy. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: I did it in 2015.]] And we wouldn't even give either of them a family wallet. So anyone who says in this room that the development of Corvinus University and its entry into the top 100 universities requires a full legal and economic transformation is not telling the truth. By the way, I'm going to join the solos: why this university, and why do you have to do this terrible transformation with it? By the way, let me do one more thing. My fellow Member, István Hiller, missed the Secretary of State of the Ministry, who should discuss this issue here and be here. József Bódis is in the room. He's just sitting in a box. [[Péter Cherry: Good morning.]] And it would be a great pleasure if the taxpayers respected him with a very high level of honor and remuneration, to have him sit down in the room, because we are discussing the subject of his field in this Chamber. If anyone, I hated that system under the socialist system, I hated the environment that surrounded us... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But now...]]
u2019-02-19-80	Congressman Nacha!
u2019-02-19-81	I don't think any of us here used to be officials, and in your line of work there are quite a lot of communists, Congressman Nacsa, that's all I have to say to you, if you've already spoken up. However, I have to say that young people, both in high school and at university, were much more in the '80s in a state of grace than they are today. You took care of it, by the way, along with your predecessors, so I think that the other governments weren't less fortunate in this, that today a young person is vulnerable to the system, that there are no guarantees for a sensible, excellent young person with great results than when I was studying. I wasn't taught by communists, I was very lucky, I wasn't even taught by socialist economics, because my teacher refused to teach me, I learned the basics of democracy in the '80s, and we got there after thirty years, that we had to talk again about when democracy would be here again. That's what this university's fate is all about, this university's fate is all about, and it's safe to say... By the way, I am very pleased that Secretary of State József Bódis has taken his place, so that he can finally be part of this debate, because I think that he, who is a scientist, who has also been through the educational institutions and the studies that have delivered him there, should indeed sit here and discuss this Corvinus transformation with us. So: there is money to be an excellent education and to be among the first hundred universities in the world, but if that is the case, then why do we need this transformation, why do we have to put it into an opaque system in which neither young people go forward, nor the children of poor families have the opportunity to learn... and forgive me now, but it is not just a question of money whether education is high enough! To do that, you need a structure, you need an education program, you need international relations, you need international aspirants. How can anyone guarantee that this system will be created, that this wealth will be transferred to this conglomerate, and the result will be guaranteed there? Who guarantees that? None of them can guarantee, no examples, no impact assessments. The minimum would be to bring to the House, among 199 Members, such a huge restructuring plan, that at least, if not in the justification, but in a material running in an earlier parliamentary system, they could have presented the results that they had achieved after such a transformation. I am convinced that Viktor Orbán and his environment need a university where they place friends and family members in various well-paying jobs who are unable to receive such cathedrals, assignments and well-paying jobs in this system today. All I hope now is that Rachel Orbán will not have a department, or he may not be the chancellor or some powerful man. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You're pathetic!]] I'm joining that fellow Member, I don't know, maybe Agnes Vadai told me. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Good example!]] For her to know, you didn't make this up. I know you didn't make it up, but you always invite the same faces to the room from the Fidesz and KDNP who are blindly capable of defending the stupidest presentation. I am sorry for you, by the way, because my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, said that we will see when we see the results, that we have made a mistake in our position. I will tell my colleague, Mr Lőrinc Nacs, that it will not be a success, because it will never be a success. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You're in!]] I've never been a success putting my friends in employment. Whatever they do, everything goes to shit, everything, everything crumbling, the beautiful buildings they create. Check it out. They're spending huge money, triple the money, like it would be justified, and everything's crumbling. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Pathetic!]] Society is crumbling, buildings are crumbling, structures are crumbling. You sell everything at a diamond price. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Doctor!]] And it doesn't even come out of aluminum. I just want to tell you... Peter Hoppál, my fellow Member, press the button, speak up and tell me if I need a doctor, but believe me: in your health, all this lying will go on sooner than in my health is that I speak. You like to know? !
u2019-02-19-82	Congresswoman, I'm obliged to warn you of your personal nature. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]]
u2019-02-19-83	Yeah, it's just that our fellow Member Hoppal said I needed a doctor. I've been very respectful of him, and I've talked to him with respect about him and about him...
u2019-02-19-84	I warned you.
u2019-02-19-85	... but it seems that sometimes something goes wrong with our fellow Member Hoppál, which upsets my fellow Member who can behave in a gentleman's way. [[Lajos Rig: You have to take medicine!]] I didn't mean my words to you, I was talking about giving your credit, your personal credit, your way of life that won't be a success, and it won't be a success because your foundation is based on sin, lies, manipulation, fraud. [[L. Simon László: The basics of the foundation with Ly!]] The Minister who is not here said the word, saying the true word when he said it was an economic enterprise. Yeah, it's gonna be a business venture, that's all. Freudi may have said something in his last sentence, but this shows everything: it is neither about science nor about the quality of education nor about the idea of getting into one hundred world-class education, but it is about how one needs it to get positions for a long time for poor people. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-02-19-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have a round of speeches, now we have two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-87	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly. Varga-Damm Andrea said that young people were vulnerable, and when she was a college student, how good she was. I would just like to remind you that at that time, and I do not want to refer to age conditions, but it should be said that at that time Hungary had the lowest share of higher education participants in Europe. [[13.30]] That's good for us to know. Albania was the only one after us. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Then I guess you're going to be crying back this time of year. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Varga Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Congresswoman Vada recommended that we enroll in one of the universities. We may take your advice, but I would like to recommend that Congresswoman Kunhalmi, Mrs Bangóné, Mr Bellozó, enroll in the elementary school to learn spelling, because I think that would also be appropriate. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Péter Ungár said that the interpreter's hand dictionary defines tuition as all the money the institution collects. Then you'll be asked, let's say, to consider the dormitory fee that the institution collects. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Supplementary examination fees are requested and different procedural fees are considered to be [[Noise, interruptions.]] 'Cause of course, they're collected by the institution, no doubt about it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea is leaving the meeting room.]] And one last thing, by the way, Bernadett Wind came up on CEU's behalf in connection with the American degree and the Chinese degree of Corvinus. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that there is a huge difference: behind the Chinese degree there is a Chinese university, and behind the American diploma there was no American university point. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Péter Ungár is next.
u2019-02-19-89	Thank you so much for the answer right away, that's wonderful. I have just read that when there was this particular referendum, a Peter Szijjártó, known to all of us, said that it was absolutely free higher education, that it was not allowed in any way to collect money from his students. It's like this cost, which we still haven't decided how you feel about tuition, I'm not gonna stop doing that anymore, so how is that any different? [[Intercom from the pro-government benches.]] But then tell me how it's different. Then it's not a tuition, it's a different kind of... [[To intervene:]] Indeed, my fellow Member, we will have time to argue so that you can tell us. So the thing is, you and your totally free higher education are a quote from you that is completely free higher education, and that's what you've been campaigning with. Orbán said that without the tuition fee, it is possible to improve the functioning of universities and colleges. And Viktor Orbán also said that we should speak straight again, that tuition excludes people like us from universities. It's interesting that it seems that the type of us is wandering from party to party in an interesting political history, but let's leave that alone. [[Demercation and intervention from opposition parties.]] The point is, at the time, you said that higher education should be absolutely free. At present, a significant proportion of students are not free, because I think the opposite of free pay, so a significant proportion of students pay for higher education, so this is a tuition fee, because the education fee that he has to pay is contrary to your original promise. So I would like to thank you once again for the fact that my fellow Member Pósán has already started, but there are others here, Mr Hoppál, or Congressman Nacsa, who was very shouting when I spoke, to clarify the difference between tuition and cost, and whether the Orbán government has introduced the tuition or has not introduced the tuition fee, and please clarify this very good logical difference that stands up here. Thank you.
u2019-02-19-90	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa.
u2019-02-19-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I'll get back to you on that. I wanted to respond to Andrea Varga-Damm, but, of course, she's going to give her epic speech and run out of the room. We're used to that. In particular, I withdraw my offer to discuss how this was done in two or three years' time. I've seen too much of you. When he says everything is crumbling, everything is worse than before, everything is in the worst possible place, economic numbers, employment data, health care, higher education, workers, money spent on anything, money spent on families, everything is in worse shape, it is difficult to take this seriously. You didn't tell the truth there that poor work couldn't be a success, because you got into Parliament, so there are some counter-examples. To answer Congressman Ungár: in the referendum in 2008, the question was whether he agreed that there should be no tuition fees in state-funded higher education in State-funded places. That was the question, and it had to be answered that it was State-supported, State-funded places. When Minister Hiller took over the Ministry in ruins from his colleague Bálint Magyar, the development part contribution was announced, this was the tuition fee, under his name, so that it would also have to be paid in state-supported places. The cost is completely different, not synonymous with each other. There's a point line. Above the point line, who jumps, receives state scholarship, state-supported training, who does not jump, there is the possibility to enroll on a voluntary basis, as a result of his own decision, for self-cost training. State-supported over the dot line. In the past, only 15 percent, according to the Minister Hiller's proposal, would otherwise have been exempted from the development part contribution by only 15 percent. This is a much smaller rate than otherwise state-supported students are currently. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Vice-President István Hiller. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-93	Mr President, It's worth recalling memories in a museum. This is the Hungarian Parliament. .......................................................................................................................................... [[Intercom from the pro-government benches.]] This is not about Congressman Nacsa, but I would like to continue with the sentence that, if real professional debates had not been put on the political agenda, we could now have an absolutely sane debate on the present and future of the funding of Hungarian higher education. Unfortunately, this has been done decades earlier by Hungarian politics, so things that we decide to do, as Members of Parliament, can really only be debated in a politically-soaked atmosphere, while tens of thousands of future generations, to be exact, but still hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians are involved in all of this. And to recite a memory in this: in 2010, we handed over a completely new, renovated rural school within the framework of one of the first programmes of the European Union in Hungary, as part of the national school renovation programme. It's good, it's nice. The mayor was one of your party mates who had to read a campaign text that started with the fact that the country was in ruins. Imagine the situation when we hand over a renovated school, the MTI correspondent came to me to ask me what to write now, how to write, how to write that the country is in ruins when we are otherwise handing over a renovated school. The essence of all this is that it is worth keeping professional foundations for what is professional. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2019-02-19-94	Thank you very much. A proper speech will come from the DK Group, Mr Hajdu László. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-95	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. I wasn't asked to comment. I've worn out the walls of this institution myself, and I think that maybe that's why I should say a few words and it's appropriate. Not to mention, I've been in contact with hundreds of former students who still know what's going on. On my paper, it says "Károly Marx University of Economics," but I'm not ashamed. I went there at a time like this. I think that the distrust that is felt, but the professionalism that is said here, would be appreciated by the author, if this were not a decided, a final decision, but a decision on the basis of arguments and arguments. István Hiller or Brenner Koloman, Gergely Arató, but I could also mention Mr Tamás Mellar, many others, from the point of view of the point of view. I think all this is unnecessary. The other part of mistrust, I think, is one of the things that happened on 12 December, when two Members of Parliament presented the law, which has since been known as the slave law, which has amended more than forty laws, and two Members have taken the liberty of submitting forty laws amending them here. Now the only positive thing is that, even if he came here in a pilot project, which no one really understood, so neither did I, but yet he was introduced by a sector, and the Minister even honored us that he was here for a while in the debate and he spoke and even answered the questions. That's the difference. But the mistrust is that what happened on December 12th or what happened to CEU, or what's going to happen to MTA now... because that's what's going to come, that proposal, the latest news, is that they're making up the same foundation thing, such a public-interest trust fund format. [[13.40]] But I think the main mistrust for me is that, as a city manager, I have lived through this huge idea of competitiveness and better solvency and cheaper operation, and that the Klebelsberg Kunó institution-supporting something has come into being, and it doesn't matter that small village, small town, big city, Budapest, district, everyone has been driven into this. Compared to this, a guinea pig will now be an institution of higher education, experimenting on whether or not he will fail or continue to carry on. I am sure that with greater investment, the author will be able to prove that this solution is viable. All the more so, because after KLIK mentioned earlier, when primary schools, secondary schools, and then away from them, the previously well-functioning vocational schools and vocational schools were torn apart, the whole thing was in ruins from this huge restructuring. You may not want to face this, but this is the situation, and anyone who knows the autonomy of a primary school at that time, the autonomy of a school principal, the contact that the municipality was working on, the maintenance and the parents and the school, it's completely torn apart, we're system aliens from each other. When, in the second stage of this, the wealth was taken from everyone without compensation, so the school fortune, from every school, whether it was a village, a city, beheaded the local governments, took away this property, it was spooky to me that the same thing would happen in higher education. They're going to discredit someone and install this property on someone, because I can't really imagine that it's cheaper, more functional; and in education, this competitiveness thing should be interpreted separately. As far as I'm concerned, educating educators for generations should be trained, competitive teachers who teach people to read and write. At medical school, people need to be trained who are competent in various fields of patient healing. At the university of economics, people need to be trained who know different parts of the financial, accounting, labour and, of course, the business world, and each settlement gets one of these. It's about training the professionals of generations. But all we're talking about here is the establishment of a public-interest trust fund, and a public-interest foundation that solves everything with a few curators who are the main... I don't know what kind of people it's gonna be, who's the president, the rector, and of course, the chancellor and a lot of people, and who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in charge of the other, or how it's gonna work. I believe that the 500 billion close assets that will now be transferred to the foundation, within which 10-10 percent of MOL shares and the other shares will be transferred, if and if there are dividends and the building itself, there is no less, but much more to be added to the state to ensure that economics education is not in a worse situation in Hungary today, or what has been said here is that paying foreign guests are coming here. If he pays, it doesn't matter where he comes from, it could come from migrant areas, he's paying. So he's a good man because he pays. If such training is to take place here, I think that we have done nothing, in a legal or restructuring sense, but rather not in the interests of training. And I would also like to mention the people who are the victims of this, because I still have contacts with several teachers, who will now receive work-book benefits from civil servants after 25-30 years of service. It must be borne in mind that they have worked their whole lives, trained to replace the profession, and now they will be employed under the Labour Code, lost and deprived of all other rights. I take this law so mistrustfully that I would take it back, I can say that. This law is unworthy of what happened at the Academy of Sciences today, including at CEU, and fits into the slave law that we adopted on 12 December. I can't support it. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was also Mr Zsolt Gréczy from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The fundamental problem with this law is that, knowing Fidesz, we are not talking about education. We're not talking about who's going to go to college and who isn't, and we know for sure. If the question of how many Hungarian students will attend Corvinus, more or less after the conversion, then the answer is clear: fewer students will go. So this proposal is not intended for more Hungarian students to enter Corvinus University, but for something completely different. And those of you who know the history of Fidesz, and there are quite a few of us here who know the history of Fidesz, they know exactly that there is nothing here but a power and financial construct. When we talk about pilots, people at TV news are gonna say, "Hey, Mom, it's a pilot game again." They're gonna buy and sell real estate, they're gonna trade state money and stock markets, and they're gonna be doing a nice job of bouncing that property, the new Corvinus building next to the old one, which, by the way, I'm gonna add, was built by the Gyurcsány government. So, this is the kind of relationship that awaits those who hope that Corvinus University will become some kind of meaningful transformation. But the Fidesz is just spitting in front of everything he did in 2008 around the referendum, but it's no wonder, because the whole story of Fidesz is nothing but to start from the Liberal International, and then they're just getting out of the European People's Party. But the same party said that on their knees, they're chumps, and now everyone who doesn't throw the cross at themselves is not a decent Hungarian man. The same party introduced foreign exchange loans to start yelling at people when they can't pay for foreign exchange loans, and I'm still able to list a whole range of changes. We are also witnessing the same turn of events when people are talking about not giving a tuition, but if you've jumped the level, it's another money. If Péter Szijjártó's statement in 2008 is true that no money can be collected from college students, it is zero, or zero forints, compared to that, every forint you collect is tuition fee. Even if it's not called tuition, there's a lot of difference between zero and one. I would add that during the 2008 referendum, the tuition was not a fraction of what you are already collecting. At ELTE law school, a current student pays HUF 260,000 for a semester. 260,000. That amount would have been 7-8 thousand forints/month in 2008. [[L. Simon László: What?]] Add up the amount of 4-5 months, and now 260,000 forints. But you don't think there's any tuition! Let's not forget that this whole diversional operation is also a confession. It is not only that you spit on your 2008 referendum, but it is also a confession that Hungarian education has been bankrupted. Public education has also been bankrupted. Today, according to a survey by the Education Office, 11 percent of students are at risk of dropping out of education. [[13.50]] This is 16 to 17 percent in disadvantaged areas. This is your crime. You can't point fingers at anyone else, you've been ruling for nine years, so many Hungarian students are out. But this is what happens to those who entrust Hungarian vocational education to a person who sells bathroom supplements. This was the Parragh model, and it ended with students dropping out of school and taking the school limit from 18 to 16 and destroying Hungarian families and young Hungarians. It's also your fault that the number of people who go to college today is falling. There is now a difference of 20-30 thousand between how many attended university in 2010 and how many attend university today. And don't tell me it's just a demographic problem, because a lot of college students go to college abroad. And your education policy has led this country to the fact that 50 percent of the high school students surveyed, who are about to graduate, do not plan their future in Hungary. Tragic number! But it's also part of your education system that families carry the heart attack on their feet today if a child wants to get into a high school because they've developed a system of admissions, and they're letting less and less children into high school. I don't know if you guys have been to high school lately at the time of your admissions: blackberry-faced parents and blackberry-faced students are terrified to come out of the room about what comes out of this math or this Hungarian. Instead of trying to help these kids get into high school and study. Don't smile, fellow Fidesz, it's your fault, you did this. In addition, no one will believe you that Corvinus is about nothing but getting the university into the best universities. A university has been expelled, which has already been registered there, and nothing else is going to happen now but that under the slave law, university teachers, teachers, fewer Hungarian students will enter Corvinus University. What's happening here is simply a hoax, a real estate pamphlet, which you're going to do here. Some fidesz will be richer again, and some Hungarian families will again be in a position where the child will not be able to get into the university. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-19-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you if anyone else would like to speak in this debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Péter Cseresnyés:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-99	Thank you very much. Dear Congressman Harvester, Looks like he didn't lie to himself, he's already on his way out, and the first sentence he yelled at in Parliament was a lie, because I was here the whole time if he didn't listen. I sat in my seat the whole time while Minister was sitting in his own seat in the Parliamentary horseshoe. But that's what his whole speech and all the opposition speeches were about. You either slipped or you clowned or you just lied. They turned today's debate into a stand-up comedy, especially from the second part. The reason I am obliged to say this is because, after the speaker's speech, before the Minister had to leave, he gave a summary of all the ideas that were formulated as a professional question, as a professional point of view from the opposition or from the pro-government side. So I do not want to deal with this, because in the second part of the debate, after the Minister left, almost all of the contributions were, as Vice-President Hiller said, almost political contributions, and often did not deal with professionalism, not the draft law, but simply political ideas. [[The notary seat is occupied by Attila Gelencsér and Gergely Arató.]] I would like to say these, after I said that there were slides, or that they had made stand-up comedy from the afternoon, or that they had actually lied, some things to say, asking you to stick to the facts in the next part of the debate, and to take into account the objectives set out in the draft law, and, if possible, to do so. On the one hand, to get Corvinus University into the 200 universities that can give an internationally registered, high-quality education, and that this goal can be achieved by means of funding in a different way than before, but it will be resolved. This is why this foundation will be created, which is why the foundation was created, which is why it gives the university a unique funding opportunity, so that the goal is, of course, that the number of students who are able to attend the university at the moment can continue to do so, and when students who are now receiving state funding run out, they will complete the university, and with the help of the scholarship, the best students will receive free training, similarly to the same admission system that they have been able to get into the university in recent years. The aim is to be able to involve other resources in the funding of the university, and as many as possible consider it worthwhile for the university to finance and participate in the higher level of training. And it's not about my fellow Member Gréczy or my fellow Member Gergely Arató, if he hadn't gone out of Parliament in a frenzy...
u2019-02-19-100	Mr. Secretary, look up at the platform, and you will withdraw that sentence.
u2019-02-19-101	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One-one! [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] Now I'm lost. (Faintness. ) So they said it was real estate, but it's not about real estate. You may remember the period when you were in government, the Gyurcsány period when Sukoro was a case, when it was the VIIth. In the district, palaces were sold, not knowing how and how, and prosecutions, and even judgments in these cases, you are making accusations without any basis. So I must say by far that I must reject all such accusations, any accusations made by Congressman Gréczy either in his speeches or in his yellings, because in most cases, in fact, it can be said that in almost all cases, there is no basis for every single thought formulated, which is made as an accusation against the ruling parties or the government. Let this be a foreign currency loan, which you have made complete, and with which you have destroyed existences, it can even be said that almost the country has been destroyed, or even the real estate problems that you have tried to bring up as an example. I will continue to ask opposition representatives, as the pro-government representatives did in the debate, to hold a professional debate over the next period, and after reading the draft law, I will say, study and understand it, then vote in favour of it, so that we can achieve the goals of a new model, together with the whole society that we set as a goal for the future of Corvinus University. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Qualifications and Scientific Degrees until its closure. The government referral is T/4070. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I now give the floor to Secretary of State József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-103	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the T/4070 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Qualifications, Qualifications and Scientific Degrees. On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the justification of the bill before the plenary of the Honourable Parliament and to ask for your support for the Act declaring the Hungarian-Russian intergovernmental agreement on the mutual recognition of qualifications. Strengthening the international relations of Hungarian higher education is a key objective of the government and an important tool for achieving this goal is to boost student, educator and employee mobility. These efforts by the government are reflected in our country's multi-territorial cooperation agreements with other countries. [[14.00]] The work between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the drafting of a draft text of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Certificates and Certificates of Scientific Degrees, issued in Hungary and the Russian Federation, began after both the Hungarian and the Russian parties declared their intention to conclude an agreement on the mutual recognition of qualifications. At the expert meeting in February 2018, the Hungarian and Russian parties discussed the views on the draft equivalence agreement in Hungarian and Russian and proposed its final text. The International Convention was signed on 22 November 2018 at the meeting of the Hungarian-Russian Intergovernmental Economic Cooperation Committee in Budapest. A new, state-of-the-art agreement between Hungary and the Russian Federation on mutual recognition of qualifications, qualifications and scientific degrees replaced the convention currently governing the two countries, signed in 1974. The aim of the signing of the agreement is to promote the mutual recognition of qualifications and qualifications as well as scientific degrees in relation to the two countries, in line with the government's Eastern opening policy, and to improve cooperation opportunities between Hungarian and Russian higher education institutions, thereby strengthening Hungarian-Russian relations. The International Convention provides for the mutual recognition of graduation exams, higher education diplomas and scientific degrees, including documents which are no longer available, but their holders play an important role in the labour market or scientific life of that State. For example, the Hungarian university degree, which was replaced by a master's degree, or the degree of the candidate of sciences. During the preparation of the recognition agreement, the parties also took into account the requirements arising from Hungary's membership of the European Union and, as the main rule of recognition under the Convention, did not exempt the holder of the certificate from the additional requirements imposed by the internal legislation of the parties for the pursuit of a professional activity. Dear House, Although the signing of the Convention is of primary importance for education policy and science diplomacy, it also contributes to strengthening dialogue between the two countries. In order to achieve the objectives set out above, I would like to ask you to support the bill submitted to you after discussing it, with your consent during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-19-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Tessely. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-105	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, On 11 October 1974 an agreement between Hungary and the Soviet Union was signed in Moscow between Hungary and the Soviet Union at that time on the clarity of the evidence of education and scientific degree issued in the countries of the Contracting Parties. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, both Hungary and the Russian Federation considered this agreement to be in force. However, since the break-up of the Soviet Union, significant changes have taken place in the education systems of both countries, which have already made the old agreement obsolete. The new Convention reflects changes in public education as well as the acquisition of a new system of degrees in higher education. By adopting it, the agreement concluded in 1974 will be repealed. For this reason, the Convention takes account of the fact that, in addition to the recognition of the levels currently available, it also has the recognition of grades that are no longer available, the holders of which are still present in the labour market and in scientific life. The entry into force of the Convention thus facilitates further education and professional activity in accordance with the laws of the States of the Parties, taking into account that both Hungary and the Russian Federation belong to the European Higher Education Area in the framework of the Bologna Process. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-19-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On behalf of the Jobbik faction, we grant our support to the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation for the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Qualifications, Qualifications and Scientific Degrees. Jobbik, as a socially sensitive national people's party, welcomes all educational policy steps, in particular the international context, which represents a step forward in the mutual recognition of acquired qualifications. Ceterum censeo, Fidesz withdraws the slave law that eviscerates Hungarian workers. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-02-19-108	The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I've been preparing for a longer comment. I'm sorry. So, I was thinking, when I listened to Mr. Secretary of State's exposé, it was a major scientific and educational issue. So let us assume that those who complete this kind of educational institution will come home to Hungary with the need that they will not be exploited here as employees. But the fact is that, since 12 December, Hungary has had a law in force which, as you say, is apparently based on collective agreements, cooperation between workers, but what we see is that a vulnerable worker can do anything. Therefore, the person who, where appropriate, falls within the scope of this otherwise correct convention, which we will vote for ourselves in Parliament, will come home after 12 December 2018 to a country where workers were actually delivered to employers. In fact, they serve multinational interests at every moment. We think that, while it is right that we are dealing with important laws here, we must make it clear at every moment in this Parliament that, since the adoption of this law, nothing has been the same in Hungary since the adoption of the slave law, so until this law is withdrawn or reviewed, we do not wish to comment on further matters in a meaningful way. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker, the next lead speaker from the DK Group, is Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the National Assembly. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-111	Thank you very much. Dear House, This bill, which lies before us, shows what role-sharing within the government is like in this debate. This is what many of us have been thinking about, why it is necessary for higher education to be supervised by two ministries, partly by the Ministry of Innovation called EMMI and partly by the Ministry of Innovation, which is not memorable. Now we understand. When it comes to the profession, the Secretary of State Bódis comes and the EMMI comes when it comes to money, and then Minister, the ICTM And the rest will be in charge. It seems to be the division of roles. The EMMI has the responsibility without money, the Ministry of Innovation has the responsibility without responsibility. It is difficult to make meaningful professional criticism of the specific proposal, since it is indeed a renewal and modernisation of an agreement. [[14.10]] But because Mr. State Secretary mentioned in his exposé the free movement of labour or how positive this is in terms of free labour flows, I am obliged to mention that today the problem of the Hungarian labour force and the Hungarian economy is not the flow of labour from the Hungarian-Russian perspective. That only comes up when you bring me in with a settlement bond, how do you say that? - to people whose qualifications and experience are not covered by this legislation, because they carry out activities that are less known from the scientific and university world than from forensics. At the same time, workers are leaving Hungary to the West. That, no, even though one of your other ministers is telling them how terrible it is in Western Europe, somehow they want to go there instead of Russia, and that is why they want to go there, because you are ignoring the rights of workers, workers, because they have forced a code of anti-worker work and a strike law that makes workers vulnerable. You have enslaved Hungarian citizens in Europe. You don't care about families, you don't care about tens of thousands of people protesting across the country. You don't care about knowledge. You have forced a slave law through Parliament that does not go towards a knowledge-based economy, on the contrary: towards a stupid economy. This is your picture of our economy. A patriot doesn't care about that. We're going to object to this. Retract the slave law, and then there is a chance to talk about knowledge and the free movement of labour in a positive sense, and workers do not flee, but it will be worth working and working in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-112	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Congressman Bence Tordai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I don't know what this bill is gonna do. Perhaps its most important goal is to strengthen relations with Russia in Putin. The fact that they are doing this in the field of higher education is not so surprising, because if we look at Hungary's higher education policy in Orbán and what the policy of education in Putin Russia is like, we can see that as Putin closed the University of St. Petersburg, Orbán has driven the CEU away or is now kicking the critical instructors out of ELTE, and they are practically playing the Corvinus University in private hands and fidesz hands and privatizing it. Well, this is certainly similar, but the interesting thing is that while you are beating up Hungarian higher education, you are destroying the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, driving out Hungarian researchers and scientists from the country, while recognising Russian qualifications. They may want to import labour from Russia, not only in nuclear power plant construction, but also in other areas. And speaking of Russian imports of labour, whether those people are qualified or not, it is obviously also worth talking about how the two countries are in relation to the exploitation and overtime of the workforce. I quote Anastasia's words, who came from Russia to work in Hungary, and she thinks that I quote literally: "The working conditions are better, I mean here, in Hungary, I have a contract in vain, and there is no labor code, if your boss says you have to work overtime for 2-4 hours, you have to, and no one will pay for it. If the manager doesn't like you, he can fire you, you won't be able to defend yourself. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It seems that this Russian model is the model in front of Hungary, which is what they want to import with this contract and, in general, with an ever closer relationship with Putin Russia. They want the Hungarian worker to be unable to defend himself. You, Fidesz, would like to have the Hungarian employee working overtime 2-4 hours a day or 8 hours a week without any consequences. They want us not to have to pay these overtimes here, maybe three years later, even if the company still works. That's what your overtime bill is about. More and more areas follow the Russian example. Russia in Putin has taken the road, and this is also demonstrated by the adoption of the slave law in an otherwise invalid process of public law. This dialogue and other opposition parties will never accept, we will not tolerate the violation of the interests of nearly five million Hungarian workers, so we will continue to fight against the slave law, and we will discuss this in all relevant or less relevant legislative proposals. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-02-19-114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, With Mr Bence Tordai's speech, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. I am now asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Member Péter Ungár asked for the floor from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-02-19-115	Thank you for the floor. The fact is that in Russia wages are lower than in Hungary, so there will always be those who can promise us, because there are always places where wages can be lower. That is why a very bad law is the slave law, which is about getting as little as possible for the Hungarian workforce/hour, which is the most pressing down on wages, which is that when it comes to exercising shared sovereignty with Audi or BMW or Suzuki, they are exercising shared sovereignty, they just forget to post a poster in Hungary that it is dangerous. So the thing is, the slave law is a bad law that you're going to have to revoke sooner or later. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-116	Thank you. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr József Bódis, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank all of you for your support for the concrete bill. Some comments that make the science of politics very interesting and serious for me, because the presentation is actually about mutual recognition of qualifications, academic degrees and degrees, so it is not one-sided. We do not recognize Russian documents in this direction, but this is mutual. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] On the other hand, I do not know how this can be combined with the situation in the labour market. In any case, I think that this is an important step in modernising a law adopted in 74 and still in force to this day, moving it to today's conditions. I therefore thank you very much for your support and positive attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-19-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/4075. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2019-02-19-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. The aim of the amendment is to reduce the duration of large investments of major importance for infrastructure and energy supply. The amendment regulates the process and coordination of the so-called preventive archaeological exploration for each major investment. The objective of preventive archaeological exploration is to examine, in the case of land affected by an investment and intended to be disturbed, what archaeological findings are there and, in addition to highlighting, documenting, transporting or possibly documenting, its burial for preservation purposes is justified. During the past year, in line with the professional ideas of EMMI and the Prime Minister's Office, the Hungarian National Museum took over the so-called coordination tasks from Budavári Nonprofit Kft. from the Forster Center in connection with previous archaeological exploration. The organizational and personal developments needed by the Hungarian National Museum to carry out the task have been carried out. Budavári Kft. its task remained on the basis of the professional base taken over from Forster, the preparation of the preliminary archaeological documentation, which in fact determines the course and part-tasks of the preventive exploration. In view of the high national interest in achieving a number of large industrial and transport investments in Hungary as soon as possible, the Prime Minister's Office, as a member of the government responsible for cultural heritage protection and archaeology, has prepared a bill to reduce the duration of large investments in the area of heritage conservation. [[14.20]] So our goal here is that, in the context of major investments of major importance, investors have to contact only a state heritage conservation organisation in the framework of one-gate administration in order to carry out archaeological activities. According to previous years' practice, full archaeological coordination will be returned to the heritage protection body, so that a single public body operating according to the same standards will be responsible for the full management of the archaeological task provided in the preliminary archaeological documentation instead of up to twenty museums operating differently, with county competence with jurisdiction. Let me give you an example. A company based in Budapest, such as the National Infrastructure Development Ltd., which is responsible for road, motorway construction or the Investment Agency established in January, will have a simpler, more efficient and cheaper organisation of work if it can manage archaeological tasks in one-gate administration with the same permanent partner in the established scheme. At present, such investors must also be associated with three public entities. In the case of large investments and external road constructions, prior archaeological documentation must be drawn up with Budavári Kft. or its successor on the basis of the contract concluded, and then a contract must be concluded with the county museum or museums designated by the Hungarian National Museum along with the coordination of the Hungarian National Museum. On the other hand, on the basis of this bill, in the future, the investor will only have to conclude contracts with the 100% state-owned non-profit organization Budavári Kft., its successor, and from January onwards with Várkapitányság Zrt., who will continue to provide for the involvement of the other stakeholders, including the museum circle. The investor does not need to search and contract up to twenty county museums for one or more national projects. The Várkatársaság Zrt. Therefore, in addition to preparing preliminary archaeological documentation, it will also coordinate archaeological exploration activities with the involvement of county museums. And if these capacities are not sufficient for the county museums, they will arrange for the involvement of the National Museum or its own capacities. It is worth pointing out that, in addition to the above, the bill before this House sets shorter deadlines than before. The requested county museum must answer within 5 days, instead of the general 15 days, whether it is capable of carrying out archaeological exploration activities. If you do not respond, then Várkapitány Zrt. ensure that the exploration is carried out on its own initiative. Let us continue to remember that this proposal only applies to large investments. I have mentioned several times that from 1 January Budavári Kft. Its successor is also the exclusive state-owned Várkapitany Nonprofit Zrt., whose main profile is the exploitation of historic buildings located in the Buda Castle District, the conduct of the ongoing public investment coordination, construction activities and, of course, the support of the trust activity. But in addition, the company and its predecessors have already effectively helped preventative archaeological exploration in the preparation of both coordination activities and preliminary archaeological documentation in recent years. Once again, I would like to underline that, through this amendment of the law, regional and county museums continue to take the lead in the professional tasks of previous archaeological explorations. The amendment of the law merely creates the possibility that only in the case of high-priority large investments, if the county museums' own archaeological capacity is insufficient, the archaeological resources of the National Museum or the Castle Headquarters may be involved; this should be seen as a kind of professional buffer. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the bill before us. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-19-121	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the substance, I think, is summarised by the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, is not a long, complicated bill, but it is worth talking about two things. In the last two decades in Hungary, archaeological explorations, archaeological explorations related to previous archaeological explorations, thus some kind of investment, have been adapted several times. We were always driven by the aspect of trying to speed up certain processes, as well as by our predecessors, the socialist government. Back in the day, the socialists centralized, created the KÖSZ, the Cultural Heritage Services. After that, in 2010 we broke it down on the basis of many professional and political considerations, and then we set out for some kind of central coordination, and today, in practice, the bill before you and the bill before us is redesigning the system along the lines of the idea that there is a need for a stronger central coordination to accelerate. The body of stronger central coordination, as we have heard earlier from the Secretary of State, is Budavári Ingatlanfejlesztő Kft. its successor, Castle Headquarters Nonprofit Zrt. I must tell my fellow Members that here, as Mr Secretary of State has said, there is indeed the professional and intellectual capacity needed to carry out this task, because the excellent staff of the former central heritage protection body, who have worked at Forster and at the National Ministry of Monuments, something in the Cultural Heritage Office, are now mostly engaged in their professional activities in this state-owned company, a non-profit company. So the Prime Minister's Office finds a good place to coordinate this task, the archaeological task. It is very important to clarify, as Mr Secretary of State has said, that this amendment does not affect so-called excavations, such as excavations, when a museum decides, along with some kind of professional task or concept, which area, where there will be no major investment, which area it is trying to explore in the coming period or in the next professional year. I would add, and note quietly that we still have work to do here, Mr. Secretary of State. It would be good not for you to say it here, but for the Ministry of Human Resources responsible for the support of museums, it would be good to move forward in the field of planning, that is to say, there would be more planning in Hungary in places where archaeological work is worth doing, despite the fact that there is no major investment there either now or in the coming years or decades. I'll give you an example: this is the fate of the Seuso treasures. Hungary and the Hungarian government, the Orbán government, brought it home very efficiently, partly thanks to diplomatic work, regained Hungary's once-explored and probably illegally removed Seuso treasures from the country. The archaeologists of the Székesfehérvár Royal Museum of Székesfehérvár are well aware of the location of these treasures, since the outlines of the building of the Seuso Palace are documented, so any time we can provide an additional source, such an archaeological exploration can be carried out. I stress, ladies and gentlemen, that is not what this bill is about, so it does not affect the planning, as Mr Secretary of State has said, that it intends to shorten the period of implementation of large investments of major importance in the national economy. We all know that these investments are a priority for the national economy, but let us summarize them for ourselves. On the one hand, the investments which the Government has declared to be of major importance for the national economy in a separate regulation, or investments in the public interest which the Government Decree has also identified as being of major importance for the national economy, are investments which the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. has declared to be of major importance for the transport infrastructure. manage or involve the transport of energy sources, the supply of energy, or the carrying out of mining activities. So we're talking about these investments. The Hungarian economic recovery programmes of the last two decades have demonstrated the need for acceleration, and we need to explore archaeological sites as effectively as possible. [[14.30]] At the same time, if my fellow Members recall the exhibition that we held here at some point in Parliament, which was opened here by Speaker László Kövér in the Cross Corridor and in part in the Kupola Hall, where we have shown how important and valuable findings have been produced in the past decade in the course of previous archaeological explorations, so during the explorations involving large investments, we have seen that there are gold treasures, important ancient and medieval materials that are worth preserving, worth exploring. So in Hungarian, the conditions and quality of archaeological work should not be compromised by acceleration, and the bill before us provides sufficient guarantees that the task of pre-emptive archaeological exploration will not be put at risk, because, and this very important argument, which caused us to initiate the elimination of the Cultural Heritage Services established by the socialists in 2010, is that, in practice, the county service was completely terminated, and we considered it important to provide the archaeologists of county museums with adequate work and, in addition to the work, with the opportunity to obtain revenue, so we returned the task to the county museums. In the meantime, these county museums, as a result of the estate consolidation of the county municipalities, were transferred to the county seat, the county-righted cities, but they remained county-wide in the 1997 CXL. Even after the amendment of the law. So a former county museum operating in a county seat now performs its task as a county-wide urban museum with the archaeological professional base available to them there. The provision of tasks and the logic of carrying out the most important archaeological works on a territorial basis are not violated as a result of this amendment of the law, so the central-coordinated city centre must first seek out the relevant county-wide urban museum. It is very right to reduce the time within which a museum with county scope has to respond, because in five days they can decide whether they have the right capacity, whether they are doing archaeological exploration in three or four other places and can react. If they respond within five days so that they can carry out the task, then of course the archeologists of the museum with county scope will be able to do the work, if they cannot or cannot do it independently, then the coordination of the National Museum will enable excellent experts from other museums to be at their disposal. This is a very right, logical amendment, which continues the logic of the amendments that we have made over the last two cycles, and I believe that it provides the county museum experts with the guarantee and security that territorially based archaeological tasks will not be damaged. Let us not forget that this is not only about who is doing the work, but also about where the archaeological findings that may be discovered will be later placed, which museum, where will be their subsequent scientific processing, exhibition, or museum storage. In previous decades, we have seen how unfortunate it is when valuable archaeological findings are not increasing the warehouse and exhibition of a regionally competent museum as they were found, but rather, say, entering a national museum, and then, for many years or decades, you cannot see those artifacts. Obviously, I say this in the knowledge that all artifacts will not be exhibited permanently, but it is also important for future scientific work and educational work to have the artifacts where they can be found. Therefore, territorial competence is important, and the fact that territorial competence will not be damaged is very right, we very much welcome the Government's intention not to touch this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, In summary, I can tell you that the attempt to have a coordination of archaeological works should be a coordination in terms of the task of the archaeological works specifically for large investments, and that the aim is to make further acceleration in view of the interests of the Hungarian economy, but this should be done in such a way as to ensure that archaeological aspects are not damaged, that is correct, which I think is eligible by the pro-government factions. I therefore ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-122	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, When we debate and establish our position on a bill before us, the most fundamental issue that we should always examine is who it is used for, whose benefit the bill was submitted to, what aspects apply to it, and why it would actually be good for the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian state, or why it is not good. If we look at the main points in the bill before us that amend the original law, such as the reduction of the investment time of the investor, how they change the scope of the archaeological activity, how they try to make the time to explore suitable, how they try to mitigate public procurement procedures, for example, in terms of mechanical landwork, and in fact, who the investor can be, what we call large investment, what we have called large investment in accordance with the law, and what we will now call it. If we look at these issues on the basis of these, I have to say that, overall, it seems that heritage protection is just a nuisance for the government, in fact they do not want to protect the existing national heritage that we all have all of us, which may, at present, still be covered by the land and protected by it alone, but the government has no purpose, nor has it been before, but I can honestly say that earlier, in connection with the 2014, 2016 or other amendments, it should still be so self-critical, Mr. State Secretary, that they have tried to somehow wrap up these amendments to the law, such as bureaucracy reduction, or that they have used euphemistic expressions, such as that they have always pointed out in a similar sense, with a similar orientation, as in the previous ones we have heard from my fellow Member, that these amendments have been made in this way, they have always pointed in one direction, so what is good for the investor, what is the interest that they should be in the draft of the law, but at least in the same way we have heard of some kind of packaging, and they are now, in a very romantic sense, that they are, that they are now, that they seem to be, that they are, that they are in the same way, that they are in the same way, that they are, that they are, that they are in the same way, that they are in the same way, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are in the same way, that they are in the same way, that they are, that they are, that they are in the same way, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are in the same way, that they are, that they are in the same way, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are, that they are in the same way, that they are, that they are, that they are in the same way, that they are in the same way, that they are in the same way, that they are in the same way, that they are in the same way, that they are in the same way, that they are, that they are in the same way, that they are in the same way, that they are in Let us look at exactly how, according to the bill, the original law will be amended according to the latest amendment in 2016, when we last modified these sections. So you want to reduce the scope of archaeological exploration with one of the Institutes of Archaeology, the Institute of Archaeology, so they will no longer be eligible for archaeological exploration, but a government-sanctioned expert guard will. I believe that, obviously, members of this institution can be experts individually under this government regulation, but I am convinced that an institutional framework is, after all, a greater protection and a greater control of professionalism than the mandate of individual experts. Who can carry out pre-emptive exploration by the heritage body, the Castle Headquarters, formerly known as Budavári Kft., and that this will continue to exercise full management, as the Secretary of State said, I would not want to repeat it now, it is exactly as we have heard here. Technically, this one-portalization is a very interesting term. I would rather think that what had been so far, namely that there was a three-way system: Budavári Kft., the National Museum and the regional museums, it was a kind of professional control, or it did bring me into this system. [[14.40]] The other is the concept of large investment as an issue. This is partly modified, partly accompanied by new concepts. From 2016 onwards, investments of HUF 500 million gross and NIF Zrt. In the case of investments or flooding, reservoir constructions and others, large investments could be discussed under the terms of the law. From now on, however, we are not only talking about investments in the highest public interest, which, as you have said, is being made as an investment by the investment agency, as a public investment, or as an investment in the NIF or as an investment in the transport of energy sources, but also as investments of major importance from an economic point of view, which, we know, is virtually anyone. Anyone who is a friendly family investor of the government can be practically included in this circle, but even in the circle of miners. I know you've announced the year of the family, and it's a big word that in this sense you're going to have a family member who does mining on a large industrial scale, and he's going to be the beneficiary of this law, and the system is going to become a one-stop shop for him. However, I think that perhaps our national heritage deserves more than to sacrifice it on the altar of such a large investment or on the altar of rushing these investments. As you have said, Mr State Secretary, after the investor starts the investment, he will have to prepare pre-emptive exploration, preliminary archaeological documentation and exploration project plans, which will now be personally supervised by the Castle Headquarters itself. That there will be five days for a regional museum after the request to respond, I find that surprisingly, shockingly few. In fact, if five days is enough to answer, that answer can only really be about no money, no papi, no gun. So neither personnel, not enough money, not enough opportunity, not enough capacity, which, unfortunately, gives a rather sad picture of the state of our own museums. So I wouldn't be proud of that. Let us also say that, if we take this issue seriously, these five days would not normally be enough to give a fair answer to whether or not a regional museum can take the task, and then, obviously, instead of an institution, an expert will be appointed by the Castle Headquarters. Finally, the last such point is the adaptation of the unexplored days. I think that we are talking about basically objective factors, what it means for an inadequate day of archaeological exploration. I'm sure there are tools and methods that can make it partially suitable, but basically, this issue stands or falls on the extent to which the particular artifact could be damaged, which we would like to explore and otherwise we would like to save. So this is also a point that, I think, is unnecessarily, only and only subjected to the interests of investors, ignoring all other professional aspects, pushing through the scene of legislation is an extremely irresponsible and bad attitude, which is why we cannot support the entire bill. Thank you for listening.
u2019-02-19-124	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-02-19-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Politics is the art of appeasement of different, often conflicting interests, or to speak with a more professional metaphor, we must also ensure that the goat is fed and that the cabbage is preserved at the same time. Every legislator knows that. Thus, with the motion to be negotiated now, with the amendment of the law on the protection of cultural heritage, although we are in a better position, the bar to be crossed is not low here either. We must create legislation that will enable priority investments to be speeded up, paves the way for bureaucracy in the jungle, but does not frustrate the success of archaeological explorations that are compulsory for such constructions. In fact, we need to create a new and old balance, and we need to take into account that building is the same historical task as exposing, preserving the memories of our past, putting scientific and lay public opinion before it. The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party sought this delicate balance, this clever compromise in the legislative amendment proposal before us now, and I may not make my speech as a general speaker prematurely uninteresting if I advance that the authors of the motion have fulfilled this task. T/4075 came before the Honourable Parliament. Proposal LXIV of 2001 on the protection of cultural heritage. The purpose of the bill amending the law is to regulate the process and coordination of preventive archaeological exploration in the case of certain large investments. The purpose of this bill is to reduce the time taken to implement major investments of major importance for infrastructure and energy supply, by making preventive archaeological explorations possible more quickly through one-gate administration, and by involving regional museums and the Hungarian National Museum more effectively, this time can be shortened. On the basis of the bill, preventive archaeological explorations can be done faster and more efficiently. At the same time, the proposal does not affect the entire system of carrying out preventive exploration, so that the coordination of the National Museum and the three-gate administration system remain in place for large non-priority investments. The advantage of this is that the normal procedure remains for the majority of cases, and therefore the new procedure to be introduced could indeed be a significant acceleration for priority cases. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the amendment of the law on the protection of cultural heritage before us creates a smart compromise between the historic duty of modern construction and the equal interests of archaeological exploration. The fact that those responsible for key investments have to be in contractual relations with only one public organisation, significantly accelerates the implementation, and the involvement of museum professionals guarantees that the aspects of science also apply, the values of our history can be revealed. Here, I would like to note the opinion of my good fellow Member, that sometimes the problem is that the deadline for administration is too long, sometimes the problem is that the deadline for administration is too short; it is that it has a hat, it does not have a cap. You say that 30 days or 60 days are a terrible lot, and then you say that five days are very few. I think we should always reduce these deadlines within the limits of rationality. This amendment also fits well into the process in which the government adapts the laws to life, makes them lifelike, applicable, and puts them in the service of people and good causes. I think that we should welcome any legislative amendment that in some way reduces bureaucracy, somehow tries to put lifelikeness at the centre. That is why this reduction in bureaucracy, I think, is the real and legitimate need of all Hungarian citizens. Therefore, we must go further on this path, because people want to feel that the legislation is for them and not for the legislation. They are not asking us for unnecessary conflicting provisions, but for things that make their daily lives easier. In short, laws under which a case may not be complicated, but can be dealt with. This is the way the law on the protection of cultural heritage is amended, so on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I ask you to support it with your votes. KDNP supports it. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-02-19-126	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-19-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There's a lot of trouble with this law, but we're used to it. [[He's got a microphone on his hands:]] I'm sorry, I have to fix this. The problem is, among other things, that the Orbán government has taken enough steps to try to eliminate heritage protection in the last eight years, now more than eight years. Among other things, the Ministry's restructuring. They were practically doing the same thing with heritage protection as they did with nature. They fired everyone they could, and then on all sorts of Deputy Secretary-General ruins who were still trying to protect their heritage, it was virtually non-ministerial. [[14.50]] We're at the point where they're trying to outsource this case to an organization called the Várdángyság. For the sake of appearances, national museums and local county museums are written in order to see this event, if something has to be discovered and the proper work has to be done there, but it's actually a pretense. It is about the fact that heritage conservation is less important for the Orbán government than the implementation of a priority investment. The two would not be carried out side by side, serving each other's interests, serving our history and serving the development of the present time, but rather simply setting deadlines for certain authorisations and procedures which are otherwise not feasible. What archaeologists say is that nobody can see into the ground, they don't know what's there, and they don't even know exactly how long it's gonna take to dig it up. So it doesn't work by saying that we have to build a freeway or a parking garage here, sire, football stadium, and that what's underneath it doesn't matter, or what they find quickly, and then it doesn't matter, and then we're gonna fish out three stone jugs, and we're gonna say that we've done the excavation, and then there might be a lot more. There is quite simply in this story a kind of intense impatientness, there is a kind of patriotism in it. Patriotic parties do not behave in such a way as to leave the national heritage in the ground or consider it less important than their investments at present. The fact that this is being outsourced to waiting positions is very thought-provoking. And how can we trust a party, for example, to protect the national heritage, which, when Viktor Orbán moves into the Castle, quickly paints a fresco, and then they explain it by trying to protect its consistency. To add, that fresco was built around the same time as II. Joseph abolished the order of the monks, and that refectorium, for example, turned into a casino. I would add that this casino would be better suited to the day-to-day operation and business policy of Fidesz. I would therefore like to say that I understand why this fresco had to be painted, but this is not the protection of national cultural heritage. It is typical that the Ministry, which is completely empty in this respect, in principle the Ministry of Culture, will have virtually no influence on what will happen to this heritage legacy in Hungary. The Democratic Coalition cannot, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
u2019-02-19-128	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Bence of Tordai, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group.
u2019-02-19-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, This bill favours large investments above all, the interests of investors and investors are once again represented by large capital. We could get used to Fidesz serving the interests of large capital, serving the interests of investors, whether it is a BMW factory or an investment in which archaeological artifacts can be destroyed, and the Hungarian cultural treasure can be destroyed. It doesn't matter to you, because these values, the values of Fidesz, matter nothing but power and money to the Fidesz. This is what we see in this law, as in the slave law, everything for money, everything for capital, so that they can then strengthen their own power. So on behalf of the Dialogue, with great respect, just as we have not been able to accept the slave law, we cannot support this anti-valued, anti-cultural and anti-historic antihuman law. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-19-130	Thank you, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute comments, since we have reached the end of the lead speakers. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai.
u2019-02-19-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The aim of the bill, as Mr. State Secretary pointed out, is to reduce the period of execution of certain major investments of major importance by allowing investors to have only one contractual relationship, i.e. with a public organisation, after the amendment, in order to carry out their archeological activities, and this organisation would be the Budavári Property Development and Operator Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, although this is only indicated in the justification, not in the proposal, the code name of the statutory heritage protection body. The aim of the bill is to reduce the duration of the implementation of each major priority investment, as mentioned above, so in the case of a major priority investment, the authority does not participate in the procedure for authorisation of preventive exploration and does not need to examine a specific issue. It is clearly listed precisely what constitutes this type of investment, for which administrative matters relating to public authorities have been declared by the Government in its decree to be a priority issue of national economic importance, which is an investment of particular public interest by law or government decree, or which has been declared by government decree to be a priority investment in transport infrastructure from a national economy point of view, and I could continue the line. What I would like to say is that it is clear that a new one will be struck in the protection of monuments and heritage, which is barely existing, since there are only a few days left today for archaeologists to save an artifact. I think that, in view of what has been explained, regrettably, this proposal cannot be supported. Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks:]]
u2019-02-19-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will ask my fellow Member, Zsolt Gréczy, if you would like to comment or if your machine is just pushed in. [[For signal:]] Okay, all right, thank you, he said no. So now there is no further intention to comment, but I will ask if anyone would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Balázs Orbán if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-02-19-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to briefly comment on some of the thoughts that have been said. On the one hand, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs asked who it was for. I wrote it down. I believe that this bill is good for Hungary, which is built, beautiful, but proud of its cultural heritage and defends it under the Fundamental Law. It's as simple as that. It is also clear from this that, as Mr Nacsa said, there are two aspects that must be met in parallel, on the one hand, to protect our archaeological heritage, and, on the other hand, to invest in infrastructure and energy, primarily for important economic growth, on the other hand, at the right time. These are two aspects which I believe to be supported by the vast majority of Hungarian voters, and it expects the government to do so before 2010, so that it can meet these two aspects simultaneously, in parallel, with fine and smart consideration. I'm sorry to approach the issue from a constitutional point of view, but in this respect, I think our Fundamental Law can be a very useful guide. Article P of the Fundamental Law states that natural resources and cultural values are the common heritage of the nation, which is the duty of the state and everyone to protect, maintain and preserve for future generations. These are typically basic laws which, according to the relevant practice, are subject to the prohibition of a reduction in the level of protection. So in these cases, it must be done and rules that are constitutionally eligible for funding from a public policy point of view, which, although it may be possible that an internal reorganization within the organisation system is being carried out, Mr Simon has also mentioned that this is a problem for decades that the right organisational methodology can be found by the current government, the best organisational methodology by the current government, but here the most important aspect relating to the protection of built heritage is that the level of protection cannot be reduced. I report that this bill does not contain any provisions regarding the level of protection. Any provision contained in this bill does not say anything about how archaeological exploration should be carried out, under what professional standards, under what procedures, under what professional capacities. It is also true, of course, that it will change the rules on the organisation system and the procedure itself. But here, I would also like to point out to Mr Zsolt Gréczy that, in the 2007-2010 system, when the Cultural Heritage Services carried out the same task, the full provision of archaeological tasks for all major investments belonged to this authority. [[15.00]] The absolute ad hoc decision was made as to how the county institution system and other professional capacities were involved, and the changes in 2010 were also induced by the fact that it was such a powerful museum lobby and such a strong professional lobby against this solution that the then Orbán government allowed, and we are now seeking a thesis-antithesis-synthesis-synthesis-like solution. I would like to ask you, however, that, in view of the fact that the level of protection for cultural heritage is not affected by the proposal, this is an internal reorganisation, an internal regulatory change, which, in my view, I think is very right to have it at the level of law, and that Parliament must decide on this at all times, but this is typically a proposal based on professional considerations, which would not otherwise be a problem if it had the full consensus of the House, but also thank you very much for the supporting contributions. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Japan until its conclusion. The government referral is T/4361. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Minister of State Balázs Orbán.
u2019-02-19-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to publish a strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Japan. Recent relations between the European Union and Japan have been a key element in the negotiation and signature of the Agreement. The first round of negotiations of the Agreement took place between 19 and 22 April 2013, which was successfully concluded on 25 April 2018 and the agreement was signed on 17 July 2018 in Tokyo. On 21 December 2018, the European Union and Japan notified each other of the completion of the procedures necessary for the provisional application of the Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Japan, of the other part. Consequently, as from 1 February 2019 Japan and the Union may provisionally apply the provisions of the Agreement which are jointly defined. The agreement provides the basis for priority cooperation on a number of issues: migration, the fight against terrorism, judicial cooperation, agriculture, energy policy, employment and social affairs. In the agreement, the parties shall believe in the fundamental values shared and shall work together to promote them in the future. What I would also like to point out to you is that the Parties will cooperate at bilateral, regional and international level to prevent and combat acts of terrorism in the context of applicable national law. The Parties shall also enhance cooperation with regard to the United Nations Global Strategy against Terrorism and the relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions. With regard to development policy, it should be stressed that, as set out in the Agreement, the Parties will step up the exchange of views through dialogue with a view and this is important for us to promote sustainable development and eradicate poverty. Hungary's relations with Japan have been characterised by mutual sympathy from the beginning, and economic cooperation is the most important area of bilateral relations. Japan was Hungary's 22nd most important trading partner in 2017, one of the most important Asian investors in Hungary, so we have a common interest in further expanding and diversifying this cooperation. In Hungarian-Japan relations, it is the same values, mutual respect, mutual economic interests, strong civil relations, sympathy for one another and cultural interest that ensure stability in the long term for cooperation between the two countries. Japan is seeking an active foreign policy to achieve its international political role in line with its economic weight and, in our view, appreciates Hungary's support for this. At government level, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's visit to Tokyo in 2013 and Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó's visit to Tokyo in 2014 and 2017 was an important episode in the history of our relations. In addition, President János Áder held a bilateral meeting on 19 March 2018 at the Brazil City events of the World Water Forum with the Japanese Crown Prince, who will occupy the Imperial throne next year. So it can be said that relations between Hungary and Japan are flourishing, which has a number of foundations, a number of stabilising factors, and that is why the Government supports the publication of the strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Japan, and has therefore presented the relevant bill to this House. I also ask your support for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor first to Zoltán Tessely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-19-137	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The scope and practical significance of the bill to announce a strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Japan do not need to be shown to you in particular, as it is known that Japan is the third largest economy in the world, the most important investment in Asia in our country. is also one of the world's leading technological developments. The states of the European Union and Japan were at war in the Second World War, and now they have signed an agreement that promotes peace and strengthens their common values. With this agreement, we are one step closer to a safer, more stable world. However, the primary driver of the agreement is undeniably economic in nature. This agreement breaks down barriers to trade with Japan, forms international trade rules, and, in short, facilitates free trade. A long process, which started in 2013, has now reached its final destination with the entry into force of the agreement on 1 February. This is the largest trade agreement negotiated by the European Union, which we have been able to achieve. This has created the largest open trade space in the world: 635 million people and the economic area producing one third of the world's GDP are positively affected by this treaty. In practice, the agreement will mean a wider choice and lower prices for consumers in the countries concerned, and businesses will have easier and cheaper access to the Japanese market. In addition to tariffs, it also introduces uniform standards and regulations in the area of the agreement, such as services and car manufacturing. At the same time, from environmental protection to safer data flows, there are many areas that are affected by this treaty. To sum up: not only the European Union as a whole, but also our country, Hungarian businesses, workers and consumers will benefit from this outstanding agreement at global level. Therefore, I do not believe that there is any question in supporting this strategic agreement. I therefore ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the law necessary for the publication of this Treaty. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.10]]
u2019-02-19-138	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-139	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The Secretary of State has already made a very thorough presentation of what this bill is and what it is about and that we must decide on the recognition of the agreement and the binding scope of the convention, which is otherwise eligible. Hungary and the European Union, as a global political player, have extensive contacts everywhere, and it is therefore important that they have good relations and good agreements with perhaps one of the most important Eastern players in the world. However, this bill gives us the opportunity to look at what can be learned from the East, what can be learned from the West, how to make them common ground with each other, because there are very many areas covered by the bill itself. On the one hand, the Minister of State for Economic Affairs, Energy and Security has listed all aspects, but I would like to highlight two of them, to which it relates, and in which there would be something to learn, and there would be something not to transpose in Hungary. One of them is Japanese culture against corruption. Well, there's something here to learn, to introduce, because we can see that it works ruthlessly in this area. Perhaps the European Union, if it enters into a treaty and an agreement with Japan, should implement conditions on the purity of public life towards itself, and not refer to the expectations or framework agreements of some wholly fluid or fog-based global organisation. And the other, speaking of Japan, is definitely how you deal with workers. Here, we do not need to take over or agree on a treaty and come to a common denominator on things that are taking place in Japan, although it seems that the government is moving in a similar direction. Maybe there's not enough overtime in the world and not as much overtime as people in Japan work overtime. In Japan, it is not uncommon or even common to have a phenomenon called Karoshi, which is to work yourself to death, because in Japan, regardless of overtime, most people are damaging their own health, simply getting various diseases because of some social expectations or some internal expectations, they think that a lot of work needs to be done. In Hungary, a silly version of this, the Hungarian Karoshi came into force with the 400-hour overtime rule and overtime law, which, of course, will result in the same smile from the other side as that of Japanese workers. If you look at what he was up to, which is a problem for the Japanese: it was a health hazard, it was that these people, who work like this, are ruining their families, their leisure time, and, yes, fellow Members, it must also be said, as a Japanese overtime professor said, that the whole overtime culture should be replaced, and instead, creating time for family and various hobbies. So even in Japan, in the citadel of overtime, it was recognized that a little further back when it comes to overtime. The global trend is to reduce this, which is growing in Hungary. While in Japan, where overtime is a truly harmful phenomenon, they try to reduce and warn employers and workers to loosen up a little bit, in Hungary they try to force people to work overtime, work, and even get an account of it in three years' time, and then they can account for their overtime money. So the government clearly sees such a convention here, a treaty there, walking the way itself, introduces the so-called Hungarian carousel, which is unhealthy, and is not worthy of honor from the point of view of family protection, because everyone sees that if someone has to work an extra Saturday, it will result in spending this time not with healthy recreation, not with family circles and not with their own regeneration. Ladies and gentlemen, The strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Japan could be about a lot of things. For example, it could be about how the parties agree not to eviscerate each other's workers, but it is not about that. Nevertheless, I believe that there will be consensus that the parties will support this proposal, because the most important thing for all of us is to have a good relationship with such an important economic partner, both the European Union and our country. The warning examples and the warning bad examples stand before the government. Back off from the overtime bill, back off from the 400 hours, and get back to the reality of working time and wage accounting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-02-19-140	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-02-19-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am sure that my fellow Member Luke knows Japan so well because he also broadcasts Hungarian healthcare workers there many times [[Delightfulness and sporadic applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]] And he has a good relationship to stop these people from working in Hungary. Yes, some things do not need to be taken over, and some things need to be taken over; there is no culture of anti-Semitism, and there is one in your party. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union and its Member States consider it important to further deepen and develop relations with Japan in all areas of political, economic and cultural life. Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member have already spoken about the importance of the strategic agreement; I would like to talk a little about it in relation to Hungary, as cooperation with Japan is also of paramount importance to Hungary. This year we celebrate the 150th anniversary of the admission of diplomatic relations between the two countries, during the commemorative year the government will continue to promote Hungarian classical music and music education in Japan, and in addition exhibitions, innovation conferences and sporting events will be organised in the island country. Japan is the eighth largest capital investor in Hungary, and in the coming years the value of Japanese capital investments may continue to increase significantly. Currently, there are about 170 Japanese companies operating in Hungary, employing a total of 34,000 employees. Japan is the largest Asian greenfield investor in Hungary, and Japan is also the largest Asian market for Hungarian food products. So far, the government has signed strategic cooperation agreements with seven Japanese companies, and every year the Hungarian government offers hundreds of scholarships to Japanese students under the Stipendium Hungaricum programme. I must say that the form of cooperation between V4+Japan also works well, as the Japanese party has indicated its intention to broaden political dialogue and concrete project-based cooperation, particularly in the fields of research and innovation, development policy and disaster protection and security policy. Thus, the government will also have to explore the possibilities of V4-Japan development cooperation in the Western Balkans; I think that this could be another chapter in the history of cooperation between the Central European countries and the island country. The Joint Committee on bilateral intergovernmental scientific and technological cooperation shall also meet at regular intervals at alternate locations. Here we also have to mention the automotive industry, which is undergoing a major paradigm shift and has become an interdisciplinary area where Japan has considerable experience and knowledge, so we consider the cooperation of the two countries to be particularly important in this area. The deepening of friendly relations between Japan and Hungary is in the interest of both countries. Optimising the economic and social development potential offered by the field of very rapidly developing ICT and digital technologies is a major challenge worldwide. Therefore, both countries can benefit greatly from cooperation in this area and its enlargement. Hungary also has a well-known ICT sector within the EU, a strong digital expertise that offers many opportunities for further cooperation. In view of this, on behalf of KDNP, we welcome the strategic partnership agreement concluded between the European Union and Japan, so we also support its publication in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-142	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-02-19-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The Speaker proposed that the debate should be conducted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in order to reach a resolution by Parliament on the publication of a strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Japan. In this connection, I propose that, if it is already the subject of cooperation with Japan at EU level, the committee should also consider how it could have been that a worker was fired at the Suzuki plant in Esztergom only because he wanted to start a union. I understand that, according to the Hungarian laws in force, the creation of trade unions is not yet prohibited. It is interesting that the Fidesz government constantly talks about the interests of the Hungarian people, but when it comes to standing up for the Hungarian workers, they lie down for the multinationals. [[15.20]] The Orbán government is the government of the introduction of the slave law. This is how you will be remembered as those who betrayed and failed the Hungarian workers. That is why we recommend that the Fidesz government immediately abolish the slave law and take steps to protect workers who have been fired from the Suzuki factory. Thank you.
u2019-02-19-144	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-19-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Democratic Coalition also considers relations between the European Union and Japan and between Japan and Hungary to be extremely important. I would like to point out to Mr Orbán, State Secretary, who says that the Hungarian Japanese-political relationship system is booming, that Árpád Göncz, József Antall, Gyula Horn, Péter Medgyessy, Ferenc Gyurcsány also visited Japan, and that the first visit of the Japanese Emperor to Hungary was due to the summer of 2002 and thus to the Medgyessy government. Even then, these relationships flourished, and I think it is important to remember them here and now. At the same time, yesterday the opposition parties came to the Suzuki factory in Esztergom, where there was a shame that the majority of opposition representatives were there, and the Suzuki factory sent a communication leader and offered that two of the five factions could enter the factory. Then, after we said we weren't gonna do this, he went back, and then he said that if two didn't go in, no one would go in. This isn't a debate culture. Of course, the cooperation of opposition parties with such a lousy trick could not be undermined. Everyone held on to each other, showed solidarity, and we didn't give them our names. However, you, who, when we talk about economic relations, invite ambassadors into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on an industrial scale, perhaps during these negotiations and discussions, might be able to signal to their Japanese negotiators that Hungary is part of the European Union, where there is a free trade union, and there must be a trade union, because the interests of the workers must be protected. A man has been fired from his job in Hungary during your government, who wanted to exercise his right to establish a trade union, and has been dismissed by the Suzuki factory after 14 years of employment. He dismissed her by not having had any objections to her work before, and even by constantly moving forward on the ranks, she was in increasingly serious and more responsible positions. This man has lost his job, and you don't have a single word for it, apart from squeezing your shoulders and saying that the opposition has gone down to Esztergom in vain. I would like to point out that the opposition did not go down in vain in Esztergom. We will continue this work, and we will skin the Suzuki factory until they give an evaluable answer and even guarantee that they will not apply the 400-hour overtime framework of the slave law. And we would also like to have a guarantee that the Orbán government will withdraw the slave law, because this law will enslave Hungarian workers. It is not necessary to eviscerate Hungarian people. For example, you talk about family politics and childbearing if you want to encourage tired Hungarians to raise children and start a family. This is not the way for Hungary, and you can safely signal this to your Japanese negotiators. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-19-146	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. [[Sándor Burány is not in the Chamber.]] But I can't see, I'm sorry, I wasn't listening. Since he's not here, we're at the end of the lead speaker's round. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. Congressman László Varju has the floor.
u2019-02-19-147	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, While we can welcome such a proposal, let us not forget that, in addition to such an agreement between Japan and the European Union, you have taken steps and made decisions on an international scale when, in other respects, you have rejected and prevented the European Union's common will to have good cooperation with other areas. But for the time being, let's stay in the Japanese area or in the relationship with Japan, because there are really very serious companies here, which have been established in Hungary over the past decades, and have built their European bridge station here. Yesterday, during the visit to Esztergom yesterday, I was very surprised to see them acting in this way, as the company that made our car has been acting as if it had nothing to do with this country for decades. You've made a huge mistake, in my opinion, that is not worthy of such a company. In particular, because it became clear that Suzuki is not the strategic partner of the Hungarian people and not the Hungarian economy, but your strategic partner of Fidesz. Their statement that the slave law was not intended to be applied was not clear. You have enslaved Hungarian citizens in Europe and offer this opportunity to these companies, where this culture is not unknown. Yeah, they can make people work to death. You don't care about families, you don't care that people have to work six days a week. Therefore, it is our patriotic duty to protest against this and to draw your attention to the withdrawal of the slave law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-19-148	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai in a normal time frame.
u2019-02-19-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the absence of Sándor Burány, I would briefly describe the position of the Dialogue. When it comes to our economic and other relations with Japan, we cannot go past Suzuki's presence in Hungary and the culture they spread. Not only yesterday they acted as they did, not only in recent weeks there has been a scandal that they have not allowed workers' rights to be formed, illegally restricted, but this was already the third attempt by Magyar Suzuki Zrt. His leadership responded by firing the trade union leader or future trade union leader, practically decapitating the organization that would have helped Hungarian workers to promote their interests. As early as the early 1990s, the first trade unionist attempt was repressed in the bud, as I could quote a local worker, being held down for hire, and then, in 2003, the second attempt was beaten in a very mean manner, when alcohol was smuggled into the locker of the newly elected trade union leader, and he was fired on that basis. And now we have seen that they are actually no longer looking for a reason to simply remove the one person who, at the moment, dared to take on this rather risky task based on these lessons. Magyar Suzuki Zrt. the Fidesz government stands up for the capital, the Fidesz government gives unlimited freedom to investors in Hungary for the exploitation of Hungarian workers, the abuse of their rights, and the destruction of their rights. This story is about the fact that the Fidesz Labour Code, which was written in 2011 and entered into force in 2012, or the slave law adopted in December 2018 in an invalid manner, encourages employers here, foreign investors investing in Hungary, and, of course, the oligarchs of Fidesz. They feel free to do anything, to limit the rights of their employees without penalty, to keep salaries low, to prevent them from establishing a union without penalty. But my good news to the citizens of this country is that they can no longer do this without impunity, because they are putting together a union between opposition parties, trade unions and conscious Hungarian citizens that will not tolerate it in the future. More and more people strike or threaten to strike, we will see more and more successful strikes or attempts to strike, and I think that Hungarian workers are becoming increasingly conscious. [[15.30]] They also recognize that they have representation in Parliament. In fact, everyone in this case is on the opposition side. So here there was an opposition unit, representing a national unity that goes against Fidesz, confronting the slave culture and politics that Japanese companies, other foreign companies, Hungarian major entrepreneurs, Fidesz-oligarchs and other employers enforce against Hungarian workers, and which interests are also represented by Fidesz in the government. So, while, of course, cooperation between nations, cooperation between the Union and third countries is generally supported by Dialogue, we strongly reject the fact that the associated slave culture is also imported into Hungary, as Fidesz has done in recent years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2019-02-19-150	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. The national secretary of state indicates his wish to speak to him. You have the floor, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State.
u2019-02-19-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, There are three things I would like to tell you about yesterday's opposition campaign arrangements. I know this is painful, but I think it is still true, and so do most Hungarian people. Laws have to be followed by everyone. The operation of a private plant shall not be disrupted. It shall not be abused by reference to the quality of the representative. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] These things can't be done. These are the three things that all opposition representatives must learn, they must abide by. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So, yesterday's performance actually has nothing to do with protecting employee rights, it's a simple opposition mood, a circus that's been done in the last few months. For employee rights, the Hungarian government has stood by the fact that since 2010 it has created more than 800 thousand jobs. [[Zsolt Gréczy: in London.]] More than 800,000 Hungarians now have jobs, who did not have jobs before 2010. And I don't want to talk about any other economic data. Thus, the Government of the Protection of Workers' Rights is the Orbán Government, and not the opposition representatives who seek to disrupt the operation of a private plant by misuse of their powers and powers. [[There's a lot of noise on the opposition side.]] Sorry, I accept that this difference of opinion will remain between us and that we will not be able to resolve this difference in the course of the negotiation of the bill relating to the strategic agreement between the EU and Japan. That's why I'm not trying to do this. I'm just saying this to make it clear that there's a very strong difference of opinion here. However, I would like to ask one thing, because it is precisely about the negotiation of a strategic agreement between the European Union and Hungary as an EU Member State and a third country, Japan. In this sense, it is a bilateral foreign policy relationship and a multilateral foreign policy relationship. Thus, although there is freedom of thought, all opposition representatives and all pro-government representatives think as much as possible about the conditions in Hungary, but I can ask the opposition representatives, on behalf of the government, to act responsibly, that even if they wish to present campaign products here in Parliament, they should not do so to the detriment of this bilateral relationship. So the way the relations between Hungary and the European Union and Japan look has nothing to do with how you want to do it, deceiving the workers by deceiving the Hungarian voters, getting more votes in the elections to the European Parliament. In this sense, we would like to ask for responsible opposition representatives' behaviour. Moreover, now think about the fact that here you always like to refer to the European Union, this agreement is important for the European Union, and so it is important for Hungary. It is important because bilateral trade relations can improve the position of the European Union in the global market and in the global economy. Now, if you are using this for things related to your daily, current campaign messages, some of you have said that, nevertheless, the bill will be supported, I think that ultimately this will not ruin the goal, at least that is what I hope you will do, but still, the words that have been said here and that have been included in the minutes have meaning. So I would like to ask you, even if you do not like the Hungarian Government, but at least worry about the future of the European Union, to support this strategic agreement, not only by pressing the yes button at the end, but also in the speeches here. Because it's not a day-to-day political issue. Moreover, we will continue to discuss the announcement of international conventions here in Parliament, and I look forward to seeing how the relationship with Kyrgyzstan and Croatia will be tied to the Suzuki factory and to the amendment of the Labour Code. [[Constant noise, interruptions in opposition ranks.]] In the case of Japan, they may have had an easy situation, but I'll wait, I'll be here, I'll see how they solve this campaign task. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-19-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of a comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, is now now taking place. Government referral T/4362. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Minister of State Balázs Orbán.
u2019-02-19-153	Thank you very much. As promised, I stayed here. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to announce a comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. Until the entry into force of the Agreement, relations between Armenia and the EU will be based on the EU-Armenia Partnership and Cooperation Agreement concluded in 1990, announced in Hungary by the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, and Act X of 2011 on the publication of the Protocols attached thereto. Armenia became a partner country for the European Neighbourhood Policy in 2004 and for the Eastern Partnership in 2009. On 29 September 2015, the Council authorised the Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to open negotiations with the Republic of Armenia on a new framework agreement. The agreement focuses on ensuring democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and on new opportunities for trade and investment in economic relations. On 24 November 2017, the EU Member States and the representatives of the Union and the Armenian Party signed the Agreement in Brussels. Let me draw attention to the objectives of mutual interest for development between the Parties: cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy, increasing its effectiveness, promoting international peace and security, strengthening cooperation on international security and crisis management, in particular with a view to addressing global challenges, developing dialogue in the field of security and security, and promoting peaceful conflict resolution. On 11 April 2018, the Parliament of Armenia unanimously adopted a bill for ratification of the Agreement. The provisional application of the Agreement between the European Union and Armenia began on 1 June. In addition, a first meeting of the Partnership Council between the European Union and Armenia was held on 21 June 2018. In Hungary there are some 1,500 Armenian minorities. As a result of their active activities, a metropolitan relationship was established between the V. district of Budapest and the Kentron district of Jeréván, Budapest XVIII. His district and the city of Artasat in Armenia have also entered into twin city cooperation. We are still active in the transport of our traditional export products, especially pharmaceuticals. According to the 2017 data, Hungary was the 93rd trading partner of Armenia. Our more important existing treaties are the Intergovernmental Convention on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and inter-ministerial agreements in the areas of justice, the economy, scientific and technical cooperation and defence. This is complemented by cooperation between agricultural ministries and foreign ministries. [[15.40]] This would be linked to this comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement, which I say once again, between the European Union and all its Member States and Armenia. I therefore ask that you support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for the word and your attention.
u2019-02-19-154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Tessely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, once again.
u2019-02-19-155	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The bill put to the vote now summarises our European values and the missionary objective of passing it on to the States of civilization and values related to us on the publication of a comprehensive and strengthened partnership agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia. Armenia is definitely like this. His cultural affiliation is not in question, as a nation, they are deriving themselves from Noah, a port on Mount Ararat. So their Christianity is one of the oldest. Following the break-up of the Soviet Union, we established the Eastern Partnership programme in the European Union, leading to their independence. Our aim was to bring the former Soviet public companies closer to Europe. Today, the reinterpretation of Europe gives us a new impetus and topicality, and this is what the current change in world policy is driving us to do. We imagine this by insisting on our original values and returning, that is to say, we want to preserve Europe as it was built, otherwise we will have nothing more to do with our eastern partners guarding their ancient civilization. We are also guided by security policy considerations in the case of Armenia. Cooperation between the EU and Armenia in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in the OSCE, gives international impetus to the peaceful settlement of the conflict in mountain-karabah. A concrete, tangible political step towards strengthening national identity, Christian European civilisation and political stability is the current international treaty. This Treaty will help our fundamental European values to survive, which is why it is important not only for Armenia but also for Europe as a whole. It is the European Union's current task to address neighbourhood policy. Maintaining the European perspective of the former Soviet republics is part of the transformation of our wider environment by peaceful means, which brings mutual benefits; for us, our neighbourhood is becoming more European, more democratic and safer, and the same desired benefit in Armenia, where we are also motivated by this cooperation. This European effort can be identified independently of party standing, not only because Hungary was the initiative of the Eastern Partnership, which is the beginning of the current expanding relationship, but also because our geopolitical interests are still pointing in this direction. I would ask my fellow Members to support a closer European relationship with Armenia. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-02-19-156	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! In connection with the current bill, the debate between the two of us on what the opposition is running the theme of the bill itself, as has been the case in the previous one. However, I would like to point out to Mr Secretary of State that your speech was no different, that you spoke about what the Directorate of Foreign Affairs or what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs normally prepares for a trip abroad, the characteristics of this and this country, the characteristics of our external relations, the production indicators, you have read, although obviously, as you said, messages could be written to the European Union, and yet statements to the European Union will be made whether or not a party supports it. So he tried to call, if I understand correctly, the importance of the subject is attention and not to take it in another direction. So for about one minute and 30 seconds, I would like to put it in a different direction if you did this, not the European Union and Armenian cooperation and context, but the Hungarian-Armenian context and Hungarian relations. The essence of the bill confirming the entire partnership agreement is that we have said a lot of important aspects in the previous one: energy policy, economy, security issues, education, health and other cooperation issues, and XV. It also provides a framework for cooperation in the field of employment and social policy. Let us talk about very tempting and well-sounding issues in this context, such as why there is no framework for decent and normal overwork. Hungary now has virtually one of the worst overtime laws and worst overtime regulations in the European Union. And how much this problem is, allow me to quote the ILO statement that it is a miracle in Armenia. most of the ordered overtime hours are 120 hours per year. This has now become 400 hours in Hungary. So here, in cooperation, we have something to learn from each other. So as long as we wish the workers to work themselves to death... of course we know your interpretation, we only have to work for those who want to earn more, and, of course, who will be forced there by his employer with different means, you always forget to add that. So we could learn in this, too, that 120 hours of overtime would be exactly enough. Or, for example, their regulation is that, on two consecutive days, overtime of more than four hours cannot be ordered. So a total of two hours of overtime a day can be ordered in Armenia. We can safely say that Armenia is beating Hungary in circles in the vision of a family-friendly place that the government is striving for. Armenia is much more family-friendly. Of course, there's 400 hours to work at home, we've had our Saturday off, not in Armenia. If Hungary had an important task within the European Community, it would at least bring these regulations into line with European expectations and Armenian expectations. I continue to suggest to you that the overtime law, which I think is completely excessive and which is not fair to the workers, and the regulation in this regard, should simply be repealed, listened to the word of time, listened to the people who, in the vast majority, would like this regulation to be abolished. Of course, Jobbik will support this current bill, since it has very important objectives and we can imagine little more important things than good, orderly, stable relations with the countries of the Eastern Partnership, both with the European Union and with neighbouring countries or a little further. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-158	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-02-19-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We're running out of Fidesz people in this room like their voters from the polls. But that's okay, we're not too excited about it. [[Károly Kontra: Don't dream, Congressman.]] You spoke to us, and I thought I would show you that this is not such an inexplicable task, even in the case of such an Armenian agenda, because, for example, if we think about the fact that Jerevan is about halfway between Hungary and Japan, and if we have already reached halfway, why not jump to the Suzuki factory, Japan, for example, this is a possible approach. Or if I tell you that according to our historical knowledge or studies, according to tradition, the Garden of Eden is derived from Armenia, and I would ask you, if the Garden of Eden is Armenia, then we are now Hungary to the workers that you pushed into it on 12 December. [[15.50]] Or, if we look at Armenia in a similar way, we are on the border between Asia and Europe, we are on the border between the East and the West, you pushed Hungary back to the East on 12 December. Mr Secretary of State, so please do not make such a comment, because we can do this, my fellow Members have managed to resolve this, and we will be able to resolve this. I would also like to add that it is in this document that it is about strengthening the rule of law and democracy and legal certainty. What do you think of this poor Armenian delegation who went to the first summit in June 2018 when this was signed? Did you know that they will also sign with a country that will later, where appropriate, bring about laws that undermine workers' rights? That's the real question. So, in each law, Mr. Secretary of State, each law can discover how, how, how your power works, how, how they serve the interests of the multinationals. So I would also like to say that this law should be revoked, because until then, we think that it is possible to find the germs of each case. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-160	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-19-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Armenian-Hungarian and Armenian-European relations are extremely important, but here I have to make a comment: it is very strange to bring Armenian affairs out of the mouth of the Orbán government; it is difficult to forget the case of the ax murderer, because you gave Azerbaijan the murderer of an Armenian citizen and caused Hungary such diplomatic complications and problems, which brought great shame, which is about the same as the Gruevski case, to Hungary. So when the Orbán government comes up with how to protect relations between Armenia and the European Union, I should, to say the least, rather weep when I hear that. Secondly, if we are really talking about relations between Armenia and the European Union or Armenia and Hungary, I would like to note that Armenia is still an agricultural country in 40 percent of its economy, and it does not reach the point of introducing such a slave law, although there is obviously something to do and produce in Armenian lands. But even there, the regulation is much more humane and fairer than what you brought here last December: Hungarian workers are subject to a 400-hour overtime framework. Compared to this, Armenia is indeed the Garden of Eden, as my fellow Member Gyula Molnár said, a period of civilisational freedom, peace and unprecedented freedom. This slave law must be abolished as soon as possible, because it is not compatible in any way, we see it, not even with Armenia, and you are always winking at the East. We would rather suggest that we take out the Western European samples and abolish the slave law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-02-19-162	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says no. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of a protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kyrgyz Republic, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until its conclusion. The government referral is T/4477. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as an EU agenda by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Minister of State Balázs Orbán.
u2019-02-19-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the bill is to publish a protocol to the so-called Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kyrgyz Republic, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Protocol was signed in Brussels on 6 February 2018 with a view to Croatia's accession to the European Union. Pursuant to the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia undertakes to accede to international agreements signed or concluded by the European Union and its Member States by means of a Protocol annexed to these agreements. Under the Act of Accession of Croatia, the accession of Croatia to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Kyrgyz Republic, on the other, should be agreed by means of the Protocol to the Agreement. The Protocol shall be applied on a provisional basis as from 1 July 2013. It also includes the signing in Brussels on 9 February 1995 of the first agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and the Kyrgyz Republic, which entered into force in 1999. The agreement sets out a framework for the EU's bilateral relations, based on three pillars: political, economic and sectoral cooperation. Kyrgyzstan is an important partner of Hungary in the Central Asian region, taking a decisive place in shaping the country's eastern relations. Hungary supports closer cooperation between the EU and Kyrgyzstan, with the implementation of the EU Central Asia Strategy as an important tool. Accordingly, Hungary has also been particularly concerned with the launch of the cooperation platform for Visegrad and Central Asia within the framework of our V4 Presidency. Hungary also supports the renewal of the agreement and, of course, calls for further development of trade relations. In this context, I can inform you that Kyrgyzstan was, according to the 2017 data, Hungary's 107th trading partner. Furthermore, we hope that the conclusion of the Economic Cooperation Agreement in July 2017 will make a significant contribution to the development of our economic relations. The inaugural meeting of the Joint Economic Committee on the bilateral economy took place in Biskek in 2019. Our bilateral relations are constantly booming, high-level meetings between our leaders have become regular, the contractual base of our cooperation will be expanded and further expanded in the future. On 27-28 February 2018, a V4-Central Asia Foreign Minister meeting took place in Budapest. Between 2 and 4 September 2018, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán held an official programme at the Turkish Council of Foreign Ministers meeting. At this summit, it was decided that Hungary will join the Turkish Council in observer status. During the bilateral official visit, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Hungary's Prime Minister and the President of the Kyrgyz Republic. So I am able to inform you that relations between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic are in good shape, are recovering and, of course, we support the further development of relations and Croatia's accession to the multilateral framework within the framework of the European Union. Therefore, I would also like to ask for your support for the bill. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-02-19-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, we're going to do the lead speaker's comments. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Tessely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-19-165	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Kyrgyz Republic, which entered into force in 1999, was intended to strengthen long-term economic, political, social, financial and technological cooperation between the two parties. This agreement has opened a new chapter in the EU's Kyrgyzstan relations, which has established a stable bond, aims to enhance political dialogue and strengthen economic and cultural relations, and the agreement is based on principles such as respect for democracy and human rights, respect for market economy rules and compliance with international legal standards. This agreement concerns practically all levels of cooperation, ranging from legislative cooperation, economic cooperation, environmental cooperation to financial cooperation. [[16.00]] The publication of the Protocol before us consists of five articles, the first Article of which states that Croatia is to accede to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kyrgyz Republic, of the other part, and the Croatian Party, by accession, undertakes to accept and acknowledge the terms of the Agreement. For Hungary Kyrgyzstan is an important partner, in 2016, Hungary exported EUR 7.5 million to Kyrgyzstan, of which drug exports are top priority with almost EUR 7 million. Furthermore, in 2016 the parties agreed to establish an intergovernmental committee for economic cooperation between Hungary and Kyrgyzstan on the official visit of Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Our country supports the strengthening of cooperation between the EU and Kyrgyzstan, and I ask my fellow Members to support the publication of the protocol. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-02-19-166	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Jobbik fraction, we support and welcome Croatia's accession to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and the Kyrgyz Republic. At the time, we welcomed Croatia's accession to the European Union only because our country and Croatia are united by over a thousand years of common history. We believe that the Central and Eastern European region is also in a special position within the European Union. Although Croatia is not a Member State of cooperation in Visegrád, it must be treated as a key strategic partner by virtue of its historical and cultural heritage. In addition, Jobbik has previously proposed the establishment of a permanent parliamentary assembly on cooperation in Visegrád, thus strengthening cooperation with V4. In a broader sense, of course, we also agree that it is also in the interest of the European Union to develop reasonable and mutually beneficial trade and economic relations with the dominant economic operator in Central Asia. That is why we welcome and support Croatia's accession to this Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. Ceterum censeo: Fidesz withdraws the slave law that eviscerates Hungarian workers! Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-168	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-02-19-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We're in a tougher position, no doubt about the Kyrgyzstan case. I could say that this time of year, of course, a routine examer would say that King Matthias was a great king, but King Louis the Great was a great king. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And it's almost time to talk about that age. So I could do this simple and easy jump, but I'm not taking advantage of the situation, that's why we're prepared, teacher. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So, I don't know if you know that Kyrgyzstan is famous for few things, but he has an excellent writer, Qingiz Ajtmatov, who wrote very big things. Before I begin to classify it as part of Soviet culture, I would like to say that László Sólyom awarded him the Hungarian Cross of Knights after the change of regime, and he was specifically one who was recognized by a more educated half of the world even when Soviet culture was not accepted very much in this form. The interesting thing is that Qingiz Ajtmatov appeared in the socialist-communist system at the time by being able to write about Kyrgyzstan in such a way as to show what kind of losers of modernisation there are, that a people like Kyrgyzstan, where appropriate, how, how he is alienated, how, how he gets into a difficult situation, how the world is moving forward, and while they are going back in time, or they are not able to move at the right pace. Well, here comes the parallel, because what you guys did is also on your way back in time. So when we look at Europe, they talk everywhere about how to reduce working time, how to reduce working time, how to reduce working week, while in Hungary you have a simple technological question The fact that there is a shortage of workers, not by offering more wages and trying to attract back good workers, but by trying to legalize something that, as you say, has already worked illegally. I do not know if you know that in Hungary there are references to the protection of collective agreements according to the HCSO data, there are up to two out of ten companies where there is a collective agreement, and there are also effective ones in substance. So what you are saying as an argument is that you are protecting workers is not true in this case. So I would like to say to you that if Qingiz Ajtmatov lived today and wrote a book about Hungary, he would ask you to withdraw the slave law. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Because that would be the right thing to do, and that would be good for the country. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-170	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-19-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For many times today, in this House, we are going to say how important international relations in this country and the partnerships that develop between other countries and not only Hungary, but also the European Union. However, there is also a part of the European political culture that applies to everyone, such as the right to establish a trade union. So if someone wants to enter into a partnership with the European Union, then they are also subject to the legislation applicable to them, and so is the law that a trade union can be established. We would therefore like to warn everyone who provides a protective umbrella to factories, even if it is a major car factory in Hungary, so that they cannot take advantage of the opportunities offered by European rights and Hungarian rights, and they cannot form a trade union, that Hungary simply becomes uncredited in concluding all contracts where they are already trying to encourage governments of countries to adopt such rules. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition suggests that, of course, all international treaties are important for Hungary and also for the European Union, but these rules should apply to everyone, even the Hungarian government, so those who want to establish a trade union will be supported by you and not point fingers at opposition parties, but allow this trade union right to be a practice, abolish the slave law and increase the wages of workers. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju for two minutes, DK.
u2019-02-19-173	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. In what you have said, and in the keynote speeches here, we have heard that the Partnership Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Kyrgyz Republic, on the other hand, to which Croatia joins, there are special forms of work in this cooperation. It is certainly worth including among these special forms of work that the market experiences that have emerged in the labour market and which are partly caused by you should be used and discussed with each other. Therefore, I would like to add quickly in brackets, Mr Secretary, that the difference of opinion between us remains that, yes, this should be discussed in this case, even in an international context. We are pleased and pleased that, by the way, you will pass on your experiences, but it is at least as important that this should not be one-sided. Please tell us what the opposition has said in this regard. And that's why it's an important experience for you, too, that if you've accumulated over 40 million hours of overtime over the last year and didn't pay the police overtime, then what kind of situation this has created. And this circumstance also tells us that there is no need for it... or that you are the slave owners who need to be able to order such an overtime for 400 hours legally, to your laws? We don't think so. Tell everyone in international experience that this was a wrong decision, that there is no need for it, and that it could therefore be withdrawn at the same time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[16.10]]
u2019-02-19-174	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Bence of Tordai, the Group of Dialogue.
u2019-02-19-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, They asked how we would link the various countries to the issue of the slave law and Hungary. I have very good news: there is a global slavery index, which we can always solve by monitoring. That sounds funny at first, but it's not funny at all. On the one hand, they observe the frequency of various forms of modern slavery, such as trafficking in human beings, forced labour, slavery, forced marriage, various exploitations of children in different countries, but they also consider it a victim of slavery who is deprived of his freedom, who is considered to be the property of others, who can be traded, sold or just destroyed. I do not say that you would consider all Hungarian workers to be like this, but their views are closer to this. The fact is that the Hungarian index and Hungary's position in this international slavery ranking also picture this. While five years ago we were ranked 63rd, now we are only 93rd of 167 countries. This not only means that there are 3.67 slaves in this country for thousands of people, but what may be more representative of the state of the public is who is vulnerable to modern forms of slavery. This is 23,57 percent, so a quarter of the Hungarians are at risk of slavery, and this was obviously made before 12 December 2018. I think we won't be able to make it to the top hundred next year as far as employee safety is concerned. Speaking of Kyrgyzstan, let's see how they stand. While we are the 93rd, they are the 85th in this ranking, so that means that there are fewer slaves per capita or per thousand in Kyrgyzstan than in Hungary. So we can learn from Kyrgyzstan, we can learn from Central Asian countries. It seems that Fidesz's slave law and Fidesz's policy against Hungarian workers in general, their pro-immigration policy, this capitalist policy is indeed demonstrably pushing Hungary back in all important rankings, especially in international comparisons where the welfare of people and the safety of workers are the most important aspects. So please, let us at least get back to Kyrgyzstan and then reverse these trends and make Hungary a safe country for Hungarian workers. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any sign-ups, no one's come forward for any further speeches. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. The general discussion of the bill between Hungary and the Argentine Republic on the publication of the agreement on the temporary work programme for tourists until its closure. The government referral is T4357. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-02-19-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Argentine Republic on the temporary work programme of tourists was signed in Budapest on 16 October 2018. Within the framework of the programme, nationals of the two countries aged between 18 and 35 years may stay in Hungary for a maximum of 200 persons per year in the territory of the other Party, with the primary purpose of their stay being tourism, under which they may temporarily work if the conditions laid down are met. The visa for temporary work under tourism, valid for a maximum period of 12 months as laid down in the Agreement, is an existing residence document in the Argentine Republic. Hungary is already party to several of these agreements, such as New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Australia, Japan, the Republic of Chile and Hong Kong, thus ensuring the practical implementation of the agreement by Hungary. I trust, Mr Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, that my proposal has convinced you that the proposal submitted and the agreement are in the interests of Hungary and that it is very timely to conclude it. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and accept this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Tessely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-19-179	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The aim of the bill before us is to deepen the relationship between Hungary and Argentina in such a way as to provide temporary employment opportunities for young Hungarian and Argentineians who want to travel to the country of the other party for tourism purposes. This can be beneficial in many ways. It can also provide a solution to potential financial difficulties, making it easier for young people to cover their costs of staying there and, on the other hand, offer them the opportunity to learn about the country's culture and traditions, while also providing opportunities for young people to improve their knowledge of the country's language. Of course, this option can only be used under certain conditions, whether the Hungarian temporary residence permit or the Argentine employment tourist visa. In both cases, the duration of the work or training shall not exceed six months and both parties shall be entitled to reject the applications submitted. The Hungarian temporary residence permit and similarly the number of applicants for the Argentine work visa should not exceed 200 per year and may be applied for by citizens aged between 18 and 35. The deepening of Hungarian-Argentine relations is well demonstrated by the fact that in 2012 the Argentine party initiated the conclusion of the working holiday scheme, i.e. the Argentine tourist visa agreement with Hungary. Dear House, We are convinced that the agreement will develop the human, but also political, cultural and economic dimensions of Hungarian-Argentine relations. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-180	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Jobbik faction, I assure you of our support for this excellent initiative, because this agreement provides a very important and serious opportunity for young people between the ages of 18 and 35 to travel for a maximum of one year to see the world, to work in the meantime, and to acquire very important competences that we hope will be used later in our country, not least as a very important opportunity for language practice. We are talking about a relatively well functioning system with several other countries in the region, and we hope that this will also be the case with Argentina. [[16.20]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, the Jobbik faction supports this initiative in a particular way because it is indeed a temporary job, unlike those hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who have been forced to leave the EU from their home country due to the bad economic policy of Fidesz, because of the suffocating political climate in Hungary. ♪ Ceterum censeo ♪ ♪ Don ♪ T Cry For Me Argentina ♪ [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Fidesz withdraws the slave law that eviscerates Hungarian workers. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-02-19-182	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-02-19-183	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. According to the agreement between Hungary and the Argentine Republic on the temporary work programme for tourists, under the Working Holiday Scheme, citizens aged between 18 and 35 years of age in both countries may stay in the territory of the other Party for a maximum of 200 persons per year and may temporarily work in the event of compliance with certain conditions. Since the Hungarian Socialist Party is on the side of young people, and our aim is to ensure that as many people as possible bring the good news to our country, of course the Hungarian Socialist Party's group supports the adoption of the bill. At the same time, when we talk about the possibility of temporary employment for young people in Argentina, we have to ask: why is Fidesz chasing young Hungarians abroad? Today, one in six children are born abroad. Because Fidesz has launched an unprecedented wave of emigration over the last nine years. This is why the slave law is imposed on Hungarian workers, as those who have left the labour market are absolutely absent. There's a way. You don't have to eviscerate the workers that are left behind, you have to pay salaries that no one wants to emigrate. That is why we are proposing the introduction of salaries at European level and the abolition of the slave law. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-184	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-19-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to add that, of course, the Democratic Coalition also considers interstate relations to be extremely important, in this case between Argentina and Hungary. However, I would like to add here compared to the previous speakers: there is working in Hungary, Holiday is less, so Hungary is not yet a happy country from this point of view. And speaking of Argentina, the capital of the country is Buenos Aires, and Hungarian workers would have the right to good air and to spend their freedom as they wish. May their weekend be free, and not be broken by the 400-hour overtime bill, and do not eviscerate their health, nor ruin their family life by this kind of austerity that you have thrown at them. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition calls on the government to withdraw the slave law again and to allow a fair wage increase for decent work. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-186	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2019-02-19-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the part of the Dialogue, I would like to express my pleasure that 200 young Hungarian workers are concerned with the welfare of the year, but the welfare of 4.5 million Hungarian workers does not really concern you, otherwise obviously the slave law would not have been introduced. My good news is, since we're already browsing the global slave index, we have something to learn from Argentina. So while in Hungary there are 3,67 slaves for a thousand people, in Argentina this is only 1,26 percent. So if, in the framework of such a holiday, the members of the Hungarian government or the Hungarian pro-government representatives were to visit Argentina and see how to build a country without slaves, how to fight slavery, it would be truly welcome, and not only 200 Hungarians a year, but 4.5 million Hungarian workers would have a better life. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Member László Varju, DK Group, for two minutes.
u2019-02-19-189	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, We can say openly and calmly that it is a good thing to have a solution, a solution, a solution, and an opportunity to do so because of the knowledge of cultures, the learning, the practice of languages. At the same time, however, Mr Secretary of State knows exactly what risks there are in tourism. In terms of the police, even in the case of other conventions, even between countries, during an active, very intensive period when tourism is taking place, there will be an exchange of police officers, and we will also help other countries. I think that in order for those who arrive here to meet safe tourism, they will also have to experience that the police are not the target and that the slave law is actually the victim of four hundred thousand to the police in Newpesten. It is necessary to work overtime hours to ensure that all this safety can be achieved. Yet you've been expecting this from the police for the last seven years. We would calmly like to say that we are not slaves, we are European Hungarians, and those patriots who rebel against this law. We would calmly like to tell these young people to bring the good news of Hungary to Argentina, and we can do so if you withdraw this slave law. There's no need for that. Especially if many people come to work for us and do not go away from us to another country, but stay here. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-02-19-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-02-19-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'm sorry, we didn't sign up for the lead speaker's round. We support to a great extent the ability of young people to gain competitive language skills, experience and an environment where they can learn and see the world in other languages and in other working environments. I just wanted to quote to this House that, in order to get here now, and to have Hungarian-Argentine relations here, there is a very important role to play in that, a ethnographic researcher, Márk Zsonda, former member of the Christian Democratic Alliance of Youth, who has discovered dozens of families with Hungarian roots in the various provinces of Northern Argentina, who left Hungary during the First World War and in the 1930s, and have now lived there by their descendants. There began a program that allowed young people there, whose ancestors had migrated from Hungary, to Hungary, to experience Hungarian hospitality. For the first time, they saw the country of their ancestors, and I think that this incredible result is that they have found these families, these communities, and they have been able to revive Hungarian traditions there, and they have also contributed to the development of Hungarian-Argentine relations in recent years. And let me make one comment to Congressman Varju: if you see 400 thousand overtime somewhere, as he has said here, you will definitely report it. Thank you very much. [[Lajos Rig: 400-1000.]]
u2019-02-19-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-02-19-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Zoltán Tessely, and my colleague Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, for their support for this proposal. As far as statements by opposition representatives speaking, although they began to support the proposal, obviously the reference to the Labour Code was just an excuse, and obviously this election campaign, part of the European Parliament election campaign, which they presented here, would like to have a pro-immigration majority in Hungary. The Hungarian government is anti-immigration and stands in the way of immigration, which is what they are trying to knock out. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.30]]
u2019-02-19-194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Information and the joint draft law on the publication and adoption of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of Classified Information between Hungary and Romania will follow. Government referrals T/4068. and T4358. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-02-19-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The conclusion of these conventions will contribute to further strengthening cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs, police cooperation and the fight against international organised crime and terrorism. After the entry into force of the Act on the Protection of classified information in 2010, professional work was started to ensure the protection of classified information generated and exchanged in cooperation with partner countries. Accordingly and to this end, Hungary has already concluded with the governments of 24 countries the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information already published in the Act. For several countries, negotiations on similar conventions have already been concluded and the final text of the conventions is being established. Dear Parliament, Under the Conventions, Hungary undertakes to protect classified information exchanged or generated under the Conventions on the basis of the compatibility of the national classification levels set out in the Conventions. In the framework of security cooperation to ensure mutual protection, the competent security authorities shall process the classified information provided under the Conventions, provide each other with information and assistance, recognise each other's personal and site security certificates and, where necessary, conduct visits to verify the processing of classified data. The agreement between Hungary and Luxembourg was signed on 5 September 2018 in Budapest, while the agreement between Hungary and Romania was signed on 3 October 2018 in Bucharest. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that the bill is supported, as this is in line with Hungary's national interests, and their conclusion is entirely timely. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Tessely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-19-197	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us may be familiar to many, because Parliament has already voted several times in this case in the last year for several countries. What are we talking about here in these two legislative proposals? On 14 December 2009, the Parliament adopted the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Act LXV of 1995 on State Secrets and Service Secrets, which replaced two laws. Act and Act LXXXV of 1998 on the National Security Inspectorate in place of the law. The new legislation in force since 2010 has created a single legal and institutional system for the protection of classified information and we have complied with our obligations of harmonisation. The 2009 CLV. With the entry into force of law, the possibility of concluding bilateral confidentiality agreements has been opened. Such an agreement was concluded first with the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic, and in 2017 with Bulgaria, Sweden and Finland. The Conventions shall specify, inter alia, the rules concerning security cooperation, the transmission, reproduction, translation or destruction of classified information and shall designate the competent authorities and specify the procedures to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. The purpose of the Convention is to protect classified information exchanged or generated in cooperation between the Contracting Parties, Romania and Hungary in this case, and public bodies under the jurisdiction of Luxembourg and Hungary, and I therefore ask you to support the publication of the Convention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information and the Convention on the reciprocal protection of classified information between Hungary and Romania are discussed together, which are two items, T/4068. and T4358. has been brought before this House. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference between the titles of the two conventions, which is that, while we are talking about the exchange of data with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Romania and I are talking only about mutual protection. What's the difference? It is also likely that, naturally, Hungary is very careful that we are together in federal systems, but with which countries we exchange and which countries we prefer to protect our classified data. Most likely, since the text of the conventions differs from one another, although not so conspicuously, but in its content, we must therefore make a distinction between the content of our relations with the two parties. We would like to stress that, of course, after the challenges of the global world test us at all times, especially at the level of technological progress that we are at, how classified information is transferred from one country to another, from one continent to another, I welcome the fact that our country and the Member States of the European Union are defending their interests and entering into agreements with each other that provide some guarantee that, after exchanging classified data or obtaining some kind of information, they are protecting these data. But while we have these two legislative proposals before us, if you will allow me, I would briefly like to mention what our diplomatic and historical traditions are like with the two countries. But before I do this, I would like to point out that I am pleased that today the Turkish Convention and these two conventions have been exchanged in order of negotiation, because I must say that the Ministry of Interior could serve as a model for the future Minister of Defence for the quality of legislation and the justification for the legislative proposals. The justification for these two proposals is of the quality that we would expect in all international conventions, and indeed basically in all legislative proposals, so I would like to thank the staff of the Ministry of Interior for their work, because I have seen in the last nine months that when they submit a proposal, their justifications are complete, understandable, coherent and forward-looking, while either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Defence are making significantly less-than-the-ground proposals, stressing not the norm or the text in particular, but the justification. [[16.40]] With Luxembourg, we had an accredited agent in Brussels from 1924 and then our embassy operated in Luxembourg between 2001 and 2009. The embassy has been closed for savings and the Brussels embassy provides our diplomatic relations with once a month consular presence. I feel that this is a strong step backwards, especially with regard to Luxembourg's seat on a large number of multinational companies with companies in Hungary. It is no coincidence that Germany is the second largest investor in Hungary. The Intergovernmental Convention on Culture was established in 1986, for example, five students from Luxembourg studied in Hungary during the 2014-15 academic year. In 1970, we concluded an air transport agreement, in 1988 the Convention on the Carriage of Road Goods, in 2004 the Convention on Tourism, in 2009 on the issue of visas and the exchange of biometric data, in 2014 a co-location agreement was concluded to provide the diplomatic representation of Brussels and in 2015 the Convention on the Avoidance of Double Taxation. Between 2012 and 2018 the 2009 CLV. By law, as Mr Secretary of State has said about the protection of classified information, we have already concluded with countless countries, if I count correctly, more than 20 countries have benefited from this partnership. So perhaps now this work is nearing the end of our country, and with these two proposals we can also conclude agreements with these two countries in order to exchange classified information and to gain access to classified information and possibly to protect it. With Romania, because of my irrationality and due to the illegitimate system under the socialist system, perhaps I would not start the diplomatic relationship system sooner than with 1989, when Gyula Horn visited, and from then on the diplomatic relations of the two countries accelerated; until we reached 16 September 1996, when we signed an agreement with Romania on understanding, cooperation and good neighbourliness in Timisoara. Romania is a member of the European Union and, of course, our relations have accelerated even more strongly since then, but I think that as a group of Jobbik, one always speaks a little more sadly about these issues. But I would like to stress that the Jobbik Group welcomes the signing of both conventions and, of course, will support them with its vote. Speaking of which countries we will be partners, I would like to say that according to the Global Slavery Index, mentioned by my fellow Member Bence Tordai, Luxembourg is the second least slaver in the world. Yeah, 2nd and 75th, it's a huge difference. It wouldn't be a problem if the slave law was revoked on the basis of this data alone. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-02-19-200	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-02-19-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The Convention on the Protection of classified information between Hungary and Luxembourg and Romania aims to protect data exchanged in cooperation between the Contracting Parties and public bodies under their jurisdiction and other economic entities. The protection of classified information is a useful regulation, therefore the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of both legislative proposals. Thank you for your work. But I have to ask the question: what protects Hungarian workers from the slave law of Fidesz, according to which Hungarians will be able to work 10 hours a day; all of this, in addition, by paying the 400 overtime hours a year only in three years' time. Hungarian people want to earn more, but not by eviscerating them. You dishonorably betray the Hungarian workers, betray the Hungarian families, and therefore we call on you to abolish the slave law. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-202	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-19-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, As we very often stress, one of the most important elements of Hungary's security and protection against the threat of terrorism is cooperation with our partners. In general, we also believe that Europe's security can not be achieved through stupid hate campaigns and billboards, nor by massaging operetta-terrorist counter-terrorism, but by basically working in a background that enables better cooperation and better relations between European countries. In this respect, we welcome this agreement, which essentially serves to ensure that this cooperation is smooth in the case of classified information as well. This requires this in a clear way. We can therefore support the bill in itself. However, if we are to talk about this system of contacts, I would also like to say about Luxembourg to the Secretary of State that, if they have passed the exchange of classified information, they should also be absorbed in public data, so I would suggest. Luxembourg is one of the highest countries in the European Union, 98 percent of the jobs that are protected by collective agreements. In Luxembourg, trade unions are considered partners and agreed on the protection of workers. It is unthinkable that regulations such as the Slave Act, which force 400 overtimes on Hungarians in Europe, would be unthinkable to ignore workers' rights. And do you know why this Luxembourg solution is particularly interesting? Because non-social democratic governments have developed this framework in Luxembourg. Luxembourg has had a long history of Christian Democratic governments or partly Christian Democratic governments. Only those who are genuine Christian democrats in Europe, not such art-Christian democrats as you think they are, who have little to do with Christianity or democracy. Therefore, while you are in Luxembourg, I suggest that you contact your friends of principle there and ask them what Christian democracy is, for example, what Christian democracy and Christianity teach about workers' wages, what they teach about respect for workers, what they teach you about how to treat people who do work. Congressman Nacsa, as a present Christian Democrat, I'll even pay for his plane ticket when I get paid. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-02-19-204	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr László Hajdu, DK Group, asked to speak for two minutes.
u2019-02-19-205	Mr President, I asked for a proper comment, but I might not get one. Right?
u2019-02-19-206	But then I'll give you the floor.
u2019-02-19-207	Number two's out.
u2019-02-19-208	Okay, then you have the floor, Congressman, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2019-02-19-209	I would just like to comment on point (b), Mr President, Secretary of State. The section on the mutual protection of classified information mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, also has police, military and domestic aspects. I would like to mention that it would be good if these classified information, public data, were not only on paper, but also worked. I would like to tell you a case because it has Romanian and Hungarian implications. A foreign exchange loan guy stole his car, maybe drove the car for three months. With great difficulty, some luck turned out that he had been taken to Slovakia. When they went to Slovakia, it turned out that it had already passed on and went to Romania. In Romania, they found him in a small town near Bucharest, and he was already the third farmer in Romania. This car has been parked in the yard of a small town police station for about five years, and the car is rotting. The court proceedings, bureaucracy and everything else you need to bring the car to Budapest, that bureaucracy doesn't work. [[16.50]] As the car does not get to Budapest, the owner can not use it, of course, but the currency-credited person has to pay for the details. Nine million I don't know how much you're paying in installments by just driving for three months. I think that when we adopt this law, it is good to know that we accept papers, but we do not know if they are even functional in the denseness of life. How can it happen that, in eight years, you pay 9 million, you may end up in Hungary as a wreck, you've never been able to use your car? Whether it's classified data or public data, I don't know. There have been negotiations, already held captive by the fences who bought and bought this car. A detective spotted it in one of the transcripts, and that's how he failed, but that's not where the car's coming from. So if the agreements that we conclude do not work in life, and we formally vote for them here, then we are going to proceed as with the bill tabled by our two fellow Members on 12 December, which, on the basis of a bill, has passed a law that is unprecedented in Europe. I will join those speakers who say that the law, if we do not want this government to become long, permanent ridicule, must be withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-19-210	Thank you very much, Mr Congressman The next speaker is Mr Bence Tordai, Group of Dialogues.
u2019-02-19-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, While we are talking about the protection of classified information and international treaties on it, it is perhaps important to include one of the specific types of classified information, trade union membership, because one is sensitive personal data, which denomination, which party or trade union belongs to or even belongs to. The fact is that these data are at risk not only in international relations, but also seems to be at risk, for example, for those working at Magyar Suzuki Zrt., the membership of the trade union as such classified data is also in danger, and the Hungarian government is doing nothing about it. How can someone, as elected union leader, lose their job in the face of their union membership and the position of their trade union leaders, while not being officially known by their employer until they are told? From there, however, the trade union leader is entitled to protection in all Hungarian workplaces. I ask you very nicely, if you claim that you are fighting against violations of the law, then start this fight with Magyar Suzuki, who am signing the exact reference illegally, the Labour Code 231. In violation of §2 of the Act, they fired their employees and hindered other workers from forming and operating the trade union. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-02-19-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-213	Mr President, Dear House, I'm really glad that Suzuki's case came up. Less so that this is an important issue among my fellow opposition Members, but it is on the government side when it triggers clarity and smiles. The topic is not so cheerful at all, as we have had a personal opportunity to talk to the employee who visited us and told us what the multi-company versus worker in Fidesz looks like in reality. In this case, not only was this employee fired, but he could not go back to his own locker to collect his personal belongings. This is of particular concern given the fact that this abuse occurred for the first time in 2006, so that someone was removed from work along with the intention of forming a trade union. So once again, the problem has a longer root, and it not only applies to the Fidesz governments, but is the result of decades of multi-company pampering, which is why we should take it back. It can be said that in 2006 the person was not allowed to go to his closet, his personal belongings, but a bottle full of alcoholic beverages was smuggled into these personal belongings after all, it turned out that this was not an accusation, but a proven fact, and the fact is that because of this smuggling, this worker could be put in an awkward position that he might not have been in all over Europe. There is strong suspicion and strong concern that the strength of these multi-enterprises, the vulnerability of workers, is at least as harsh and serious in this case as well. That is why I would expect effective, active, meaningful action from the government. Once again, these are not so ridiculous situations, because these workers, these Hungarian people, are your voters on the one hand. So you partly owe your government to these people. There may be fewer and fewer people voting, let's say, working in multi-company companies, but I'm pretty sure that's where their sympathizers are. But regardless of party sympathy, these people are producing tax payments that you will be able to sell as a success propaganda through a payback system on your billboards. And these people are also those from whom you expect, and we would like them to be able to have children in Hungary, if they could keep this country as Hungarians, if they could bring the fallen Hungarian life tree back to a state of equilibrium, or at least towards the state, and we also expect them, and you also expect them not to migrate from Hungary, while these people have to leave their country many times under duress. So if you want to understand this issue in your depth, it is my suggestion and my respectful request that you not deal with a half-smile with the real life stories, case studies brought here by the opposition, whether it be foreign currency-credited, whether it is trade union-based workers, but also with them, communicate with them, examine these real-life situations. Once again, these people will eliminate your government if these processes remain so. It may be only a few years from now that this may be too much of a perspective compared to what an ordinary pro-government Member from a parliamentary seat is now forced to see, but in the long term it is quite certain that if these people are not dealt with in substance, we will not be discussing international conventions, but how we can even keep this country alive. I do not want to get to this point, because now all the tools are in hand in order to straighten the treatment of multi-company companies, to withdraw the slave law, this hideous one, thereby slowing down the spin of the emigration spiral. In the end, I very much agree that, although this is also a consequence of all the problems, demographic low-flying must be stopped after slowing down, zero-pointing and reversing harmful processes. Therefore, my reverential request, let's face it, is that all these things are related, to take them out with half smiles, and to laugh at them, at least, is disrespectful, unworthy of this House. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. The joint general debate is closed. Mr State Secretary points out that he wishes to respond on behalf of the rapporteurs to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-02-19-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank Mr Tessely and the Fidesz and KDNP groups for their support. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Isn't ours?]] As regards the opposition representatives' comments, the sentences on the agenda, the Hungarian-Luxembourg and the Hungarian-Romanian conventions and statements of support were, of course, also thank you. What is more, I have just said that this is obviously an excuse and serves the interests of the opposition representatives of the European Parliament's electoral campaign, who would like Hungary to be an immigrant country and attack the anti-immigration government. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You have planted tens of thousands in the country!]] Obviously, this experiment is in vain. And let me make one more comment, fellow Members. Mr Gergely Arató, representative of the Democratic Coalition, says that we want to achieve anything here by massaging operetta-terrorist counterintelligence, I reject it. The Counter-Terrorism Center has been active for the safety of the Hungarian people for the ninth year. TEK's activities for the past nearly nine years have been appreciated and socially recognised, and I thank it here, in front of this House, in public. This is a statement by Mr Gergely Arató, who is unworthy and completely unfounded, and I therefore reject this and ask him to refrain from such lies in the future. Thank you very much. Once again, as regards the two proposals, the two conventions: I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2019-02-19-216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the publication of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the control of road, rail and water traffic between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia until closure. The government referral is T/4475. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-02-19-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The conclusion of this Convention provides a legal basis for the opening of two new border crossing points at the Hungarian-Serbian border section and brings the rules for the operation of common border crossing points into line with EU standards. The 2012 IVth meeting of the European Parliament and of the Council It was necessary to amend the agreement announced by law to establish a new border crossing point at the Hungarian-Serbian border section, in particular to establish Kübekháza-Rábé and Bácsszentgyörgy-Rastina, and to comply with the requirements laid down by the Schengen Borders Code. Dear Parliament, The opening border crossing points will basically facilitate the daily lives of local people, make family, cultural, social, sports and municipal contacts easier and faster, as well as relieve the other border crossing points in the Hungarian-Serbian border section. The Ministry of Interior regularly consults the Serbian party in order to reduce the increased waiting time at the Hungarian-Serbian border. The exchange of experience resulted in the decision to open the two new border crossings. Dear Parliament, Our cooperation with Serbia is of the utmost importance in the fight against illegal migration. There are currently two transit zones where asylum applications can be lodged, both near the Hungarian-Serbian border section, which is why this section deserves special attention and, therefore, it is particularly important that border controls be as effective and effective as possible. Hungary considers it essential to support Serbia's border surveillance on the Western Balkans migration route. In 2018, 190 Hungarian policemen served in the territory of the Republic of Serbia both in the immediate vicinity of the border and in deep areas. The agreement was signed, i.e. the final conclusion of its text, at the meeting of the Hungarian and Serbian governments in Budapest on 9 February 2018. The European Commission confirmed in October 2018 that the text of the Convention complies with the Schengen Borders Code. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill, as it is in line with Hungary's national interests. In view of this, I would like once again to ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-19-218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before we continue, Your Honour, I'm fixing one mistake. At the end of the joint general debate on the previous two legislative proposals, I did not indicate that amendments could be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. And now we're going to have the keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Tessely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-19-219	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. This bill is based on an agreement for the control of road, rail and water border traffic concluded on 24 January 2012, which was concluded between the Hungarian and Serbian parties with a view to the international status of the border crossing points already in operation in an international treaty. The Agreement shall include, inter alia, the principles of cooperation between border inspection bodies, the location of border crossing points, the order of use, the opening hours and the nature of traffic. The agreement was also necessary because there was no agreement in force in the international treaty governing border traffic control until 2012. It was justified to conclude the agreement just because, because of the historical changes, I am thinking here of the dissolution of Yugoslavia and Hungary's accession to the European Union, the bilateral conventions that were then in force became partly obsolete. The amendment is also necessary because there are new border crossing points at the Hungarian-Serbian border section, Kübekháza and Rábe, as well as plans to build Bácsszentgyörgy and Haraszti Rastina, as well as the requirements laid down by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the EU Code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders. The agreement before us will allow the opening of the two permanent border crossing points and the flexibility of the operating framework for border crossing points. Overall, the convention, which was signed here in Budapest in 2018, creates the consistency of border control rules for common border crossing points in the Hungarian-Serbian border section with the changes published in EU law and clearly serves Hungary's safety. Please support the announcement of the treaty. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-19-220	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Csányi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is a great honour for me to give my first speech in the Hungarian Parliament on such an important subject as the Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the modification and supplementing of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the control of road, rail and water traffic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As we know and have heard, the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the control of road, rail and water border traffic was concluded on 24 January 2012. To look at the amendments that we are about to make, it is important to highlight what we have also heard earlier, that the seven road border crossings so far are increasing to our southern neighbour, which is obviously welcome for those who are travelling there, and it can be a great relief for them to cross either Kübekháza or Bácsszentgyörgy's border that was unimaginable in the time of Dezső Kosztolányi, born in Subotica on 29 March 1885. Speaking of Kosztolányi, honourable fellow Members, allow me to recall that in an interview by a well-known apoliticist poet, writer, journalist, essayist, who briefly told us about the Christmas dream of Hungarian writers, we are dreaming of reality today. My Christmas dream is only: Bratislava, Košice, Cluj Napoca, Oradea, Timisoara, Subotica. As Jobbikos, I cannot ask this House whether we can dream of anything less, honourable fellow Members, and what it takes to have a Trianon Memorial Year in Hungary in 2020. Returning to the subject, the question arises: if the number of border crossings increases, how much additional burden does it impose on the police? How far does the protection of the border draw the already burdened police personnel from villages and cities? The question is, of course, poetic, because we are all aware that border protection represents serious redeployments within police personnel, which may even lead to tensions, not to mention the significant overwork that is affecting the organisation. [[17.10]] Despite this, according to the official website of the police, a total of 6361 illegal migrants wanted to enter Hungary last year. This is the smallest number of recent years. Here are the figures: 21 thousand more in 2017, 18 thousand in 2016 and 391 thousand in 2015 tried or crossed the Hungarian border. The latest data on police.hu: about 200 illegal migrants per week, who are otherwise escorted through the gate by a vast majority. Of course, recognising the danger of illegal migration, and not forgetting the role of the southern border seal, its importance, from the data, seems to be less and less under the pressure of migration in our country, so perhaps we should also save the alarm in propaganda, because that would be fair. And perhaps it would not be from the devil to leave border guards to guard the border, and to restore the border guards with a noble simplicity, as Jobbik Hungary's Movement has repeatedly suggested. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that, although this item is about declaring an amendment to the Convention, it is still a citizen's experience, if you will. During the summer peak period in Röszke, when a host of Turkish migrant workers leave at the same time, plus a part of Europe is going on vacation on the Greek coast, amazing congestion occurs in both directions. It's not uncommon to be in line for 5-6 hours. Looks like this crowd hasn't been prepared for border workers, but it's been trending for years. Unfortunately, there are few bathrooms that are likely to be easily helped at least during the peak period. Action should be taken to this end. Overall, we support the amendments. Ceterum censeo: The slave law that exploits workers is withdrawn by the government! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-02-19-222	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-02-19-223	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. The aim of the Convention amending and supplementing the Agreement on the control of border traffic between Hungary and Serbia is to create new border crossing points by creating more flexible provisions consistent with EU law and creating a legal basis, which, of course, we welcome. The changes included in the Convention bring about the consistency of border control rules for common border crossing points at the Hungarian-Serbian border section. This was extremely necessary, which is why my group, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group, supports the proposal. However, speaking of control, we also need to ask: who on the government's part controls how employers suppress Hungarian workers in connection with the slave law? Because large companies are trying to disable trade union interest, with the tacit support of the Orbán government. There were quite a few of us at the Suzuki factory yesterday, and it was shocking when the head of communication came out to receive the two of us. How can you meet two people? We recommended at least one of every faction. Accordingly, no agreement of interest was reached. So I do think there is something to be done about this, because I think Suzuki is our car, not the government's car. The Hungarian Socialist Party stands by Hungarian workers and we support the creation of a European Labour Code, which can guarantee the rights of Hungarian workers at EU level and eliminate their vulnerability to international large companies and our own government. That is why we are proposing the abolition of the slave law and that the government take the appropriate steps on the international stage with the introduction of the European Labour Code. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-224	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-19-225	Thank you very much. Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to at least three issues concerning the bill before us. I would say, of course, that the possibility that it is an important element in the expansion of relations between the two countries, that two new stations will be important for people and that it is important to make it easier for people to cooperate, to support and to be important. However, there have been experiences from the past period that are worth taking into account. The Secretary of State certainly remembers that not so long ago, a few months ago, it was discovered that, according to the police's admission, the radiation gates under the Convention had not worked for a long time. Trucks crossed the border without otherwise being controlled. If I were to put it very simply, I could say that they could have carried a nuclear bomb through us, while this inspection, which they are about to improve, worked moaningly. Moreover, this area includes what you have done to refugees in the area of migration in recent years. I think that many aspects of this need and can be debated, one thing is certainly worth doing at this time, and that is that in recent months, the police have been overloaded in this area, including at this stage, when they have been burdened with the 40 million overtime I have already mentioned to you. It would be very interesting to find out... when the opposition protests and protests against police overwork because it is not really necessary, and you do not even pay for it, leaving it unresponsive in such a situation, we will remain there with the condition that, yes, you think this is very important. Therefore, this area, which falls on the border section, is, in itself, in addition to the welcome fact that the two border crossing points will be opened, they will be burdened with them. But what this is in relation to what is the application of EU law, which, in fact, we can be happy to see that at times you are forced to take it into account and not just go after yourself, because if you do that, then there are serious consequences, like what we saw the other day. Therefore, I must draw attention to the fact that neither the police nor the police should be enslaved; you do not want to force them as slave owners, because they cannot protest against it, so we are right to speak for them, because their families are equally important. And if they offer them various discounts, even if there is a tax advantage, whatever, or a car, which you promise to lend here, to be indebted to, and then they will be your slaves, which, by you, I believe, is more of a disadvantage than an advantage. No wonder a lot of people are protesting to end this. It is our patriotic duty to draw attention to all of this. I will tell you all the time that the slave law must be revoked. A patriot can never accept the fact that you consider the border rescue to be a serf where you can employ police officers without overtime on many days, or under housing conditions, as we have seen the news of it more than once. To sum up, this law is also a good opportunity to improve the situation, not just in the technical way, not only in the two crossing points that are for those who cross the border, but also in all those who are affected by this area. Therefore, I propose that the slave law be revoked and not applied where there is no need to do so. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-226	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. [[17.20]]
u2019-02-19-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although I don't know if I applied for a speech. Not that I know of, but that's too bad. [[Defiance.]] The position of the Dialogue on this matter is also clear. It is very gratifying that it is easier for citizens of the two countries to travel between Hungary and Serbia, but it is less joyful that this route will probably be used to escape by Hungarian citizens and Hungarian workers, as Fidesz has made working in Hungary a nightmare. Fidesz was clearly in favour of emigration, Fidesz set up the Orbán list, which is the pro-migration list in the European Parliament elections, and Fidesz seems to want to drive Hungarian workers out of Hungary. I believe that the most spectacular tool of this is the slave law: the pro-migration Fidesz implements the Orbán plan to make Hungarian workers impossible in Hungary. They openly sided with the capitalists, openly serving their interests with their pro-immigration policies, and one of the impressions of this is that they are trying to support emigration by even opening up borders. The Dialogue cannot support this endeavour. However, we will, of course, vote on well-intentioned legislative proposals to improve interstate relations in all cases. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-228	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2019-02-19-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Allow me to respond to what has been said in this debate. Mr Zoltán Tessely, representative of Fidesz [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Out!]] has given its support to the bill. Member speaking on behalf of Jobbik [[Dr. László György Lukács: Tamás Csányi.]] I can answer the following questions raised by Tamás Csányi. When you said that you were too much of a burden to the police, and you do not know that this can be done: it is the result of a long preparatory process that we have been able to present this draft convention to this House. The police are already considering the operation of these two new border crossings and the necessary police personnel and the necessary resources are available. So I would like to reassure you of your benevolent concern that this is not justified, that the police are ready, following the adoption of the bill and the entry into force of the Convention and following the construction of the border crossing point, this opening and operation of the police will not be an obstacle. As regards the development of border crossing points, I would like to say that it is continuous. At present, both Röszkén and Tompa are planning to develop infrastructure. With regard to the comments made by Member László Varju, let me also respond: I would like to say that the staff of the police are subject to the new law of service, which entered into force on 1 July 2015, so it is not the labour code, the law of service. The police, whose work we fully acknowledge and express our thanks for the results achieved and the service they perform, may choose, in case of overwork, to ask for it in cash or in spare time. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Except in Szabolcs county!]] And I'd like to say that, contrary to your statement, the police do not, to my knowledge, owe you any compensation for overwork or overwork, as far as I know, that's okay. So I ask my honourable fellow Member to review this statement because it does not correspond to reality. And, as I have already said, the conditions for opening new border crossing points are available, both in terms of staff and resources. Thank you to my fellow Members who supported this. I maintain my reply to the opposition statements that are not related to the bill. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to the alien police until closure. The government referral is T/3622. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-02-19-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The migration crisis that began in 2015 posed unprecedented challenges for Europe's countries, a significant increase in public security and public policy risks for persons subject to asylum and immigration procedures across the EU, a number of countries introduced restrictive measures and several countries restored border controls at internal borders, such as Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Austria and France. Today, the Italian beach transport practices have changed, and currently no relief organisation can carry out rescue operations near the Libyan coasts. The analysis of the routes of illegal migration shows the activity of the Western Balkans routes and the search and reorganization of routes out of the country. In Turkey, 4 million migrants are waiting to travel. More than 70,000 migrants in the Balkans are ready to enter the European Union. Hungary acted immediately thanks to the Hungarian government's foresight. Hungary has already taken a number of measures to stop illegal migration: it has created the triple protection, it has passed the Stop Soros Act, which makes the organisation of illegal migration punishable. The reorganisation of the Immigration and Asylum Office also responds to these new challenges. According to the Hungarian Government, the establishment of a comprehensive system to address border and asylum issues together could be a means of halting illegal migration. The Immigration and Asylum Office also carries out administrative and police tasks, but the asylum and foreign police tasks today exceed the general administrative powers. It is also of strategic importance to strengthen the agency's foreign police powers in the context of the procedure where genuine refugees and economic migrants can be isolated. Dear Parliament, As a result of this transformation, the Office will be able to take, in its own right, measures which have so far been carried out only by specific police intervention. In particular, as a law enforcement body, the Office will also be entitled to apply police measures in its control activities, which will allow for more effective action. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the risks to public security that arise are identified and screened more effectively in the performance of asylum and foreign police tasks. In order to achieve this goal, from 1 July 2019 the Immigration and Asylum Office would continue to act as a police body if the bill was adopted. This organisational function is not unique in the European Union either, since in many EU countries asylum and foreign police are carried out by a body belonging to the police. Dear Parliament, A significant number of employees, about half of whom so far have been in government service in the Office, are transformed into professional service rights. The transformation is not automatic, the need for consent is enshrined in the bill as a guarantee rule. In the context of the bill, it is essential to amend the law on police, the law on government service relations and the law on the professional and administrative staff of law enforcement bodies. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the above facts, the protection of Hungary's state border still requires the maintenance of strict border protection and the strengthening of foreign police powers. The Hungarian Government will continue to provide the necessary resources and support for these measures for the safety of Hungarian people. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17 .30]]
u2019-02-19-232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-19-233	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Since the 2015 migration wave affecting both Europe and Hungary, there has been a significant increase in public security and public order risks for persons subject to asylum and immigration procedures throughout the European Union, as reported in news from Western and Northern Europe every day. In order to stop illegal migration, Hungary has taken a number of measures: it has created the triple protection and we have adopted the Stop Soros Act, which makes the organisation of illegal migration punishable. These new challenges are also addressed by the reorganisation of the Immigration and Asylum Office, which is addressed by the T/3622 before us. The draft law on the amendment of certain laws relating to the foreign police body is detailed. The Immigration and Asylum Office also carries out administrative and police tasks. In the past, administrative tasks were dominant, but today asylum and foreign police tasks are already beyond the general administrative powers. As a result of this transformation, the Office will be able to take, in its own right, measures which have so far been carried out only by specific police intervention. As a police body, the Office will also be entitled to use police measures in its control activities, which will allow for more effective action. The purpose of the bill is therefore to ensure that the risks to public security that arise can be identified and screened more effectively in the performance of asylum and foreign police tasks. In order to achieve this goal, from 1 July 2019 the Immigration and Asylum Office would continue to act as a law enforcement body. As a result of the change, some of the employees' service relationships with the government will also be transformed into professional service rights from 1 July 2019. The Fidesz Group supports the bill. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this bill in order to safeguard the security of Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us may be justified, but it may even be concluded that the status of the Alien Police Organisation so far may have prevented the organisation from carrying out all the tasks that have been set out in the general statement of reasons. First of all, I must say, however justified or not justified this bill is, but clearly correct work, its justification is very well built, unfortunately, it is rarely possible to read from the government a bill of this quality, and although it will be shown in practice at all organisational changes whether it was justified, but let us hope and be good faith and kind that the intentions of the government and the Ministry of Interior are fair. What does the general justification say? It states that the current asylum and foreign police tasks go beyond the general administrative powers and that it is appropriate to transform the authority into a law enforcement body in order to allow for the possible existence and elimination of public and national security risk factors. In the above, not so long ago, my fellow Member, Tamás Csányi, said in his speech that the numbers that have been relevant since 2015 in the matter of migration and immigration, the content of which was that the number of 390,000 that was in 2015 dropped to less than 7,000. In addition, as we know, in total, 85 thousand people have been deployed by the government in Hungary during the settlement and foreign police procedures, for whom, unfortunately, we have not been able to find out in the last year whether their public and national security risk factors were adequate. But let us be kind, and let us hope that these large numbers do not cause serious problems or damage to our country from the point of view of national security or public security, and let us hope in particular, because I am convinced that most of the 85 thousand people settled do not live in Hungary, but basically the aim was to get into the territory of the European Union legally, to stay here legally, and that most of these people are probably looking for prosperity in other countries of the European Union. This proposal contains a very detailed list of all the necessary provisions in law enforcement law for the adaptation of these two organisations, i.e. two task organisations, the Alien Police and the Asylum Authority as police bodies. The demands and ideas set out in the detailed justification are adequate and justified, so if we support the classification of these two areas as police bodies and from then on as police bodies, and not as a simple administrative body, then these adaptations are appropriate, we have found no shortcomings in them. However, I have to say one deficiency, which is that if it had already been established or stated by the general justification that it was justified to transform it into a law enforcement body because of the speeding up of migration and the density of migration, to detect public and national security conditions or risk factors, I would have been happy to see that, if it had not already been in the written submission, but perhaps in the oral amendment, the rapporteur would have pointed out cases, shortcomings, difficulties or specific features of the procedure to the determining persons which made it difficult for the foreign police and asylum authorities to detect risks to public and national security. Since such examples or such real stories from life are not seen, we do not know, so we cannot really judge whether this is real, but, as I have just said, let us be be benevolent and support the fact that if the Ministry of Interior and the government believe that these two activities would work more effectively in such an organizational system, then show this. The test of pudding is always to eat, and over the years to come, we'll see what the consequences will be. However, I would like to draw attention to one thing: after becoming employed in a professional service here, i.e. police officers, government officials and civil servants, and employees will be in a completely different legal relationship, which includes benefits with a completely different system of relations, this means that the budget is likely to cost more to pay those working in this organization. After we do not see any additional resources in this respect in the 2019 Budget Act that would necessarily cover these additional liabilities, we will be honoured, in the reply of the Secretary of State, to say that this may be a few words to me just because I am a member of the Committee on Budgets, whether we can count on amending the budget law in 19 for this reason. Because we hope that by transferring these workers to law enforcement agencies as professional workers, it will not be possible that they will be dismissed because the source of the budget does not provide for the demand for that number. [[17.40]] As I said, there is one important thing for us, and this is to ensure security for the nation of Hungary in the refugee and foreign affairs. In the event that the Honourable Government and the Ministry of Interior consider that, although the number of people initiating these procedures has fallen dramatically and the migratory pressure has actually fallen to the level before 2014, this transformation is intended to meet even the reduced needs, we will try to vote in confidence in this. Allow me to think about whether it is possible for workers whose legal relationship is now becoming professional service relations, perhaps the slave law will not cause as much difficulty in their lives as it would have been. So it is possible that this will be the only advantage of this legislation, but let us hope that the aim that the justification serves is indeed done and that the citizens of Hungary can rest assured that these two tasks will be carried out in an excellent way as a police body. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-236	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-02-19-237	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have an important bill ahead of us, and we have a long way to go to get here. The numbers of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants reached the Hungarian border on the Balkan route during the refugee crisis are known to everyone, and how the pro-government majority and the Hungarian government have been able to defend themselves against this: we have built a fence, a legal border lock, and we have included the ban on resettlement in the Fundamental Law, and we have criminalised the organisation and financing of illegal migration, while, by the way, proposals from the centre of the European Union, Brussels, are being made to support and finance illegal migration, not to punish and prohibit it, as domestic legislation otherwise does. The assistance we have received from you on this trip as opposition representatives is very simple to express: we have received almost no assistance. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We voted! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Stop lying!]] You were able to vote for the amendment to the Fundamental Law after your votes were no longer required. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: How would the defence have gone from you to the border? You weren't even here.]] That's true, too. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: How would the defence go to the border without two thirds? Why do you have to lie?]] In addition to the measures that I have said, we have strengthened the police, set up border hunting centuries, strengthened the military, and strengthened the police's responsibilities by raising wages and introducing a career model for law enforcement workers. Mr Csányi, in his first speech, immediately indicated that he would turn less police officers into border protection, as he said. [[Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm and Dániel Z. Carpathian intervention.]] What would happen if few illegal immigrants arrived? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But there's too many cops. I can't interpret that any other way, except as one of the brains of the new coalition. [[Lajos Rig: I believe that. Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not your fault that you don't understand!]] Until now, the Immigration and Asylum Authority has basically conducted administrative procedures, but the Ministry of Interior has recognised the need for a much more efficient operation of the Office as a foreign police body, so according to the bill, the police will be supplemented by a fourth body, which will continue to act as a police body with the name "Interim Police." This is also necessary because, here, my better fellow Members have indicated that fewer illegal immigrants are arriving in the current period than in previous years, by the way. My fellow Members, this is because the fence is there because we have closed the Balkan route because there is no way into the country. This is because the European Union has agreed with Turkey, but there are figures coming to Turkey last year, only 40 percent more illegal immigrants came to Turkey in the period until November than they did in the previous year, in 2017. Trends do not show that this pressure will decrease or even be contrary, as four million immigrants are constantly waiting in Turkey for it and constantly dissatisfied with their move towards the European Union. 70,000 people are still on the Balkan route, so it will not decrease in any way, it will only continue to increase. We proved that the Balkan route could be closed, that illegal migration could be stopped on land in partnership, and that the Italian Government could prove that this could be done at sea. The next step of these defence mechanisms is the bill before us. This bill is also important, and the reason why the democratically elected Hungarian Parliament has to take these decisions is because we cannot expect any help from the pro-immigration majority in this regard in the European Union and in Brussels, where they are talking about migrant visas, migrant cards filled with a lot of money, legal migration channels, where the mandatory quotas are back on the agenda, and they are constantly trying to weaken national border protection. We cannot expect any help from the bureaucrats in Brussels, which is why the Hungarian Parliament has to act, and that is why in recent years it has had to act in the interests of the security of the country, in order to protect Hungarian families, Hungarian children and Hungarian people. That is why we have taken these measures, and that is why it is also important to have a bill before us, which aims to ensure that the risks to public security that arise can be identified and screened more effectively in the performance of asylum and foreign police tasks. For this reason, the KDNP fraction supports the proposal for the security of the country. I'm asking you to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-238	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-02-19-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I go into the interpretation of the law, or at least in the presentation of our opinion, I would tell Mr Nacsa to think a little bit about what he says or what he reads. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: He doesn't know! Lajos Rig: But he believes it, you can see it!]] You are talking about legal migration channels as a demonic concept in the context of the European Union. It is, isn't it? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It was your guest!]] It is, isn't it? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So the legal migration channel is a horror who introduces it, it has no place in politics. [[Nacsa Lárinc's intervention.]]
u2019-02-19-240	Congressman Nacsa, please control yourself.
u2019-02-19-241	The bad news, my honourable fellow Member, is that the settlement policy you have introduced and applied for many years is a legal migration channel. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Kárpát: You are the biggest criminals in terms of migration!]] Don't say no, my fellow Member, because this really is kindergarten. But there's a grammatical meaning to the words: it was a legal migration channel that you let foreign migrants in here for money. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Period!]] Period. If we can say a few words about the law, we have three reasons why we do not support this bill, and I'm sure no one on the other side will be surprised. One is that from the very first minute, we do not consider the disorganization of the single police to be a good professional direction. In addition to the Counter-Terrorism Center, the National Defence Service and the body that now only performs police duties, a foreign police agency is now established, and from a management and management point of view, there will now be four equal bodies with four equal leaders, who, by the way, compete with each other. We think a united police force is much more effective and can do better work in a country this size. The other one. This is obviously an opinion, you do not have to accept it, but we cannot fail to see the next stage of the state party's move towards such a typical police state that you are changing an administrative body into a police body, placing government officials as police officers, and, of course, after administrative administration, customers will now be subject to proceedings. However, we know, at least we, who are dealing with this, that the Immigration and Nationality Office, or just as you now call it, has so far made up the vast majority of its clients, not of fence-crossing criminals, or, I don't know, of illegal migrants, but of foreigners coming to our country either legally or completely fairly. Obviously, they're not going to be clients anymore, they're going to be subject to procedure, but this shows the same image I think everyone has seen in the last few years. The most important reason why we cannot support this is the way in which the Hungarian people are treated, Mr. Secretary of State, and this law is just one, I said this in December; the law which converts administrative and administrative relations, the Riasz. Law, Hair worth a better name. This law, which redefines the status of soldiers, abolishes the status of civil servants there, which is likely to have caused problems in the Honvéd Hospital, if acknowledged or not. [[17.50]] Because at that time, from 31 December to 1 January, tens of thousands of people, their living conditions, conditions, salaries, positions, freedom, everything were rewritten. This is an inch better in terms of BM, then there's a little more preparation time. I just don't understand, Mr. Secretary of State, very seriously, there are about 800 civil servants, government officials in the immigration office right now, or they're planning about as much, if I remember correctly, that's how they'll be cops from 1 July. So how do we imagine a government official doing time, handling matters as an administrative expert, and putting on a uniform from July 1st, handing him a gun, and then he's a cop? He's an officer who goes to college for years, and they teach him that at university, college, higher education. He's a deputy officer, the executive staff went to vocational school, he's going to be trained, at least two years before he's a cop. How do you imagine the Kovács Mary, who sits as the administrator of the immigration office, and from 1 July she will carry out police work with a gun on her side, verify, prosecute, interrogate, carry out any kind of activity she will receive? Does he have tactical training on when to use a firearm? I absolutely don't understand, but I'm sure Mr. Secretary of State will be able to tell you that this is what you're going to jump at in the next three months. Because the law clearly reveals, as with all the other laws, that we cannot accept this method and this schedule in any way, whether you eat it or not. You'll have a few hours to sign the paper, or you'll find yourself on the street. This will be the choice for these people who have served this country before, Mr. Secretary of State. This government, perhaps previous ones, has been served for at least nine years. They're people. [[Károly Kontra: They are people. Not these. Them.]] And these people deserve more than just turning their whole lives around with a law and not being able to prepare for it. You do not treat these people as partners, not as state officials, which is a noble word in the Hungarian language, but as subjects, servants, if you will. This is how you treat them, and there really is not much difference between this law and the slave law. There, too, the 400-hour overtime is prescribed, and the Hungarian workers are thrown away as cons either to private companies or to public companies. And here we are talking about declining rights, you know, Mr Secretary of State, in all the similar laws that were adopted in December, we are talking about declining freedom, falling rights and, in any case, much more vulnerability when we look at people. And allow me, Mr. Secretary, to look not only at the effectiveness of the state in this matter, but also at the people who work there. Therefore, this is unacceptable to us. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-02-19-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to notary Gergely Arató, Member, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-19-243	Dear House, I must tell you that we share very little in this matter, whether the parties of government or the Jobbik's enthusiasm. We do not think that militarising, including in the police force, would improve the security of the country in any way or improve legal procedures in these offices. What are we talking about here, dear fellow Members? I am always grateful to Congressman Nacsa, who does not hide the intentions behind complicated thoughts, we have heard from him, this bill is also part of your main political product, the big migrant, serial scare. The purpose of this bill is to say once again that, woe, woe, the migrants are coming, and there will be great trouble. At a time when Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, a member of your European party family, Viktor Orbán's good political ally, says that today there are 95 percent fewer asylum seekers coming to Europe than in 2015. At a time when I think you're recruiting refugees to have someone at that wonderful fence that you can humiliate and starve afterwards, because otherwise, you can't prove that they're tough every day. There's hardly anyone coming to the Hungarian border. And don't joke, they always say, "Wow, but they've really managed to protect Europe with the fence, because it's such a static thing for the asylum seeker to go in one direction, and if there's a fence ahead of him, he can't make it to the right or to the left. It is not the fence that has reduced the flow of refugees to Europe, but the European Union-Turkish agreement brought together by Chancellor Merkel, who has been despised, hated and constantly abused by you, and I must add that migration from Libya or North Africa has not been stopped or stopped by the cruel measures that have resulted in six people drowning in the Mediterranean every day, your Christian democracy, but the agreement between the European Union and the countries of North Africa, for which Hungarian diplomacy has done everything to prevent it. Because you do not want to solve the refugee crisis, but to sharpen it, it is in your interest that this crisis should stand up, and therefore you will do everything at European level to prevent effective European measures when, for example, they hinder the strengthening of the European border and coast guard, which has, in fact, played a major role in cutting down the trafficking route from Libya to a significant extent. Why, then, is this measure necessary, this House? What's the point? It's not that there are new tasks here. In 2015, when there was indeed a significant flood of refugees flowing through Hungary, which you had to prepare for the first time, they pushed us into the country without any control and then pushed us out of the country without control. At the time, and ever since, when there was a period when a relatively significant number of asylum seekers reached the Hungarian border, the asylum authority was able to do a great job. Why do we have to change now? Ladies and gentlemen, There are two reasons for this. One of the reasons is to say a few more times how important this is and how hard you defend the Hungarian borders. But there's another reason. And this is that, like all dictatorships or dictatorships, you have great affection for uniforms, shoulder sheets and, in particular, salutation and obedience. They cannot bear the fact that personalities, people who consider their oath to be more important and that Hungarian and international laws apply to Hungary, as well as your instructions, can exist either in the public sector or in public offices. Then they will set up a command police organization here, and then they will hope that less will be asked if Hungary has already left the UN and the Geneva Convention, whether Hungary is still a member of the European Union whose legislation you have consciously violated for many years and because of which, otherwise, there is now a court-order infringement proceeding against Hungary. Dear Congressman Nacha, The majority in Brussels that you are talking about are members of your party family, the group that you want to sit in again. This group is the one without which the European Union has not been able to respond to the refugee crisis in recent years. The vast majority of this group not only voted in favour of these proposals, but, in cooperation with the Liberals and the Social Democrats, created these proposals. Great EPP MEPs have worked in recent years to provide a common European solution to the refugee crisis, to the management of refugees, and to the protection of Europe's borders. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] That is why they have worked in Brussels, and you and your MEPs have worked to make it a conflict, not a solution. They worked to make people suffer, so that you could beat their breasts on that basis and carry on a foolish campaign of hatred with the support of your well-paid advisors. Ladies and gentlemen, This measure fits into the series already mentioned by Mr Harangozó. [[18.00]] You want to break the independence and independence of civil servants. You have created new police and defence statuses, legal status, which are essentially capable of detracting the rights of former civil servants and civil servants working in this area. They can withdraw the rights that protected them and essentially force them into a system of command typical of armed bodies. You have previously changed the service laws by unduly restricting the rights of those in service. Just as you consider Hungarian workers to be slaves, you are also a government servant to those who work in the public sector, to those who are in service, to those who are in a civil servant relationship. They don't consider them partners, not coworkers, not respected civil servants working for the store, but they want to make dependent servants of the government out of them, and they want to force them to do so. With a few days' deadlines, but with other organisations, I hear that the law hasn't even come into force yet, but they had to declare whether they wanted the new legal status. I must say to you that these are transparent and extremely likable efforts to eliminate the ethos of public service, and instead to introduce command control, the baton system, in all important areas of public administration. We cannot support this bill, we reject it, it is not in the interests of the people working in that office or the law of Hungary.
u2019-02-19-244	Welcome back to my fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now we're going to have regular comments. I give the floor first to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2019-02-19-245	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to talk about this proposal in its depth, because this whole discussion or discussion began immediately with a pro-government rampage, which, with his virginity, entered into my fellow Member with a pair's foot, completely unwarranted. I would also like to clarify, in his defense, that Jobbik does not want to focus less protection on the border, but rather we simply do not see the logic of the action plan that this government has carried out, thought out, and, in itself, I think it is wrong, I think it is not possible to improve much by transforming the Immigration and Asylum Office into a kind of foreign police office. I, by the way, respect the former institution very much, regularly visited there, asked for data, so we, my fellow Member, do so: first we ask questions, and then we hit politically if there is an attack surface. You have done this the other way around again. The fact is, this is not the kind of discourse that would be worthy of this House, especially on a subject of this magnitude. So I would like to clarify to you what Jobbik's position was when the migration crisis started. The same thing that can be summarised in a sentence to this day: neither poor nor rich migrants are wanted to be settled, imported, admitted and protected in any form in Hungary. My fellow Members, our attitude and our position are so simple. On the other hand, there is one now I am pleased that the organisation of illegal migration is being punished, but there is a party family that organised this form of migration in a legal way called Fidesz-KDNP. And what have you done with the settlement bond scheme? On the one hand, tens of thousands of people were allowed into Hungary with dubious backgrounds. To this day, they can't account for why this thing called filter four worked at such a low degree of efficiency. You said that, and I don't want to quote press disputes about wanted criminals, suspected terrorists, how did they get past that? If you can account for this, I am pleased to do so, but I do not wish to burden you with this burden and throw it all over your neck, although you have just been placed here with this responsibility, so I can only express my concerns towards you. But I would like to make it clear to you that, in addition to the tens of thousands of aliens who, in my view, do not have much place in Hungary, they do not have a place on the European market, and they have also endangered the sovereignty of our country with an active national security risk. By designing the construction, they allowed intermediary companies to enter the Hungarian market, who broke a hundred billion-dollar commission at the expense of the Hungarian people's wallet. Secretary of State, I do not think it would be a brief debate between us about the validity of these intermediary companies. What I'm saying is that various intermediary companies registered in Cayman Islands offshore tomatoes should not be allowed to have a seat near any government-supervised or state-controlled construction. If you can disprove it or confirm to me why it was justified, then I might be able to accept it. But they didn't even try to protect this amazing thing, and they do say regularly that there are similar constructions in Europe, where offshore companies disappear at this rate, they can't be found, we haven't been able to find them in the last decades, and there are very serious questions here. I do not want any Hungarian government to treat the hallway of Hungarian citizenship as a market kofa, with the right of establishment. I see that at least the attitude that the government has shown on this issue has been irresponsible, and it is also net that we can predict how much our budget has been damaged. The damage to the budget in this area was in the order of ten billion, and we had not yet used large numbers or big words. So in itself, Mr Secretary of State, the fact that from 1 July this foreign police agency would take over the so-called asylum tasks would not be a problem at all. It would not be a problem if, during your era, this migrant quota of around 60,000 could not have gained ground either in Hungary or in Europe. And how wrong my fellow Member Nacsa is, if there were some kind of rainbow coalition here, as it does not exist, we would obviously agree with the other opposition parties on this issue. I do not agree with all of you, we do not agree that there is a refugee crisis here, and I say that we are living in the different stages of the migration spiral, where, of course, refugees are minimal, but unlike many of you, I personally paid my respects in the danger zone for about two or three weeks. I visited the affected regions, and, Mr. Secretary of State, may I remind you that when, unfortunately, you were expecting representatives of your party family and you didn't arrive, it was my entire faction in the Digesthal farm world who joined the farmhouses to help and set up the otherwise contagious health waste of the migration base there, to clean up the rest of it, to dispose of it instead of you and instead of your assignment. So our good intentions, please, are not to be discussed, because there in the field, in the field, we were there, you weren't there, you were just making a statement. There is a huge gap between us on this issue, and yes, on the day before the incident in Röszke, I visited the entire affected area, and in the middle of the incident in Röszke we were there on the Hungarian side, and we tried to look at what happened personally. I thought it was amazing myself. That is why it pains me, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members, that many years after our warning, they began to consider any kind of physical border lock at all. The incidents around the so-called refugee camp in Debrecen have been reported to you here in Parliament and have been said that there is no migration threat in Hungary. You can look back at Parliament.hu: they literally said that there is no such threat in Hungary, it was you. And the thing is, even though the physical border lock was built, we still have a debate between us on two things. On the one hand, my fellow Member Nacsa says that they did not really receive assistance from the opposition called pro-immigration on this issue. I would like to remind you, with sufficient restraint, how and how the defence could be led to the border. If you recall, this was a two-thirds decision, we decided on it here in Parliament, and at that moment there were no two-thirds of the Fidesz-KDNP. There was only one way for the defense to get to the border with the votes of Jobbik. So if Jobbik hadn't been principled on this issue and followed what he said from the first moment that we didn't want to see a rich or poor migrant here, then the defence wouldn't have been able to get into the border, which was an active and meaningful step. It is so much more serious than the amendment of the Fundamental Law, because, despite the amendment of the Fundamental Law, you have been able to install tens of thousands of the richer migrants in Hungary, which is at least repulsive to a good part of Hungarian society, a significant part of it. In such a case, a really strong government, which not only demonstrates this power, not only imitates it, but actually wants to cooperate with all the social groups in the country, engages in dialogue, settles; it accounts for, say, the bond construction, and reveals the abuses associated with it, punishing those responsible. [[18.10]] We can see that this is not what happened. However, I agree with you on one more thing, and I certainly disagree with some opposition representatives. I think that this temporary sway, which concerns the migration spiral, is really only temporary, and when Africa's population surplus comes on the defenceless Europe, I do not think that either the fundamental amendment or the cosmetic steps of Fidesz-KDNP will be able to protect Hungary or the continent. I therefore stress once again that I also consider the introduction of rich migrants by Fidesz to be a reprehensible process, and I demand that this be investigated, but I do not understand why, in recent years, either one of their ministers or their State Secretarys, has taken such a position on Frontex, since Viktor Orbán and his team have done several things, two things of particular importance. On the one hand, Prime Minister signed a final document on the implementation of quota-like solutions just a few years ago, so not two months ago, but not even 15 years ago, this issue was also discussed before the UN. [[Károly Kontra: That is not true!]] I would also like to say that, in connection with Frontex, there was a fidesz potenta who specifically demanded that this type of solution be developed and thought through. My position, and I am not speaking on behalf of my group, is absolutely speaking, but my position is clear and consistent, I can accept Frontex, a common European solution, on one condition: if Hungary does not have to deliver the slices of its sovereignty to the rest of the world in return. But since you don't know and I don't know the way FRONTEX is developed, because we're talking about a liquid mass that they're still working on, which may still be a negotiating basis, it's at least political irrational to reject it from guts. Once again, I would be able to support it if we did not have to give up a small fragment of Hungarian sovereignty in return, but at the same time we can see that the common European solution is not even negotiated, at least, the hotbed of demagogy, and the Fidesz-KDNP has unfortunately strengthened a great deal in this area in recent years. I do not wish to appreciate their Stop Soros legislative package, which has been brought up in the Expoze, as it is negligible in terms of the fight against migration, but rather a government propaganda weapon. And we also see that if this independent border guard could protect our borders with significantly higher efficiency not only now but in the long term than the amazing mule solution, within which the police officers and the soldiers I respect very much are taken away from their traditional territory, where they would not necessarily be needed in the presence of a border guard. I am therefore waiting, Mr Secretary of State, for the specific, one-word reason that will keep you from establishing an independent border guard. [[Károly Kontrát: The item on the agenda, if you would speak, Congressman, and I expect it.]] I would also like to know where this enormous self-confidence comes from with you, because when Hungary was invaded mainly by migrants at the time of the arrival of the Albanians in Kosovo, and very few, but also asylum seekers, then the common language, the folk language, renamed the Keleti Railway Station to the Middle Eastern Railway Station, and you did not defend the Hungarian people, but tolerated this condition. You have tolerated the condition of moving around the Eastern Railway Station for weeks. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Meg went around the square on a parliamentary day.]] By the way, the people involved during the meeting in the neighbourhood of Parliament, and then they also tolerated marching out of Hungary, taking the Hungarian motorway. Obviously, they were a little relieved, but this masculine, caracan-looking courage, which now appears in their rhetoric, does not appear in their behavior, and what my comrades and I say here is that a man is not born on the commentary wall and not in speech, but his actions show that he is. Therefore, I would like to ask you with all due respect that the rhetorical great words may be a little, good, let us all back off, then we will hold back even more, but in the field of action it should be much more distinct whether what they say is really the case. And in the field of action, your certificate must at least be explained; it cannot in any case be given exemplary, in certain areas sufficient yes. So I'm not your countermand on migration, the physical border lock, as originally a better idea, of course you enjoy my support, but because of the settlement bond structure, it would be very ugly for us if we could conduct these debates in a fair way. Unfortunately, they are trying to empty parliamentarianism, and yet I am trying to get you to create national minimums in the event of such meat-cutting problems in Hungary, and do not try to get them drunk solely by political violence, so let them be professional minimums. The package before us could be like this, but only if they were willing to continue a frank discussion on the issue of migration, where I, we, our party, are on the side of zero tolerance, so we do not want to see either poor or rich migrants here. You, the rich, yes, the poor, apparently not, should find somewhere in common a section where you can connect to our zero tolerance, and then you can protect Hungary from migration. With such a bilucent policy as that which has been found in recent years, I think they can deliver political results in the short term, but in the long term they will certainly harm the Hungarian body. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-246	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai.
u2019-02-19-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, What's going on? What's happening is that Fidesz is trying to keep a political product in the runway, called migraines, alive for a while. Then the unfortunate Immigration and Asylum Office was targeted as a victim, turned into an alien police agency. As my opposition colleagues have explained here, it is obvious that they are doing more harm than they are using any case, but you do not want to use it for any case, except for the only case that Fidesz is still trying to dominate the communication space. What we see is that in 2015, when the popularity of the governing parties fell, they found it with great joy, slapped it like a fresh snot on the subject of chickens, immigration and migration, and since then it has not been released. This bone is chewed even if there are asylum seekers, even if there are none. We now know that in 2018, the number of asylum seekers in Europe decreased by 94 percent compared to 2015, so there is no real need for action and no need in this area. Let us say that it could be helped to prevent further waves of refugees, that is what the EU's agreement with Africa or Arab countries, which was vetoed by Fidesz, who, once again, is not interested in solutions, but at least in maintaining this conflict on the communication scene. So this political product in the runway, which is a little tired, is now presented in another package, and they're delirating from a foreign police agency, which is worse, they're going to do what was written here in this bill. But we know that it's all for that, it's been collided, there's been enough work in this bill, so that their Hungarian anti-worker policy, which became evident in December, is somewhat concealed and somewhat overwritten. In December 2018, it became clear to everyone that Fidesz is not on the side of people, but on the side of capital, that Fidesz sees Hungary's future in the exploitation of Hungarian workers, or at least the pledge of its own political survival, if it serves the political will ordered by mainly foreign multinational companies and fulfills it. It means that people do not talk about it, that people do not think about it, that they are trying to achieve that by now the migraine disc, which is actually slowly four years old, is being put back on again, is being turned again, in case anyone is still dancing to this music. I'm telling you, they're not gonna dance to this. The new Finkelsteins know this, and I don't know who Árpád Habony and Antal Rogán are running with so-called professional advice. So we see that now unfortunate families are becoming political products in Fidesz policy, thanks to it. There won't be much thanks in it, so on behalf of the Hungarian families, I ask you to leave us alone, not to make political products out of Hungarian families, they thank you, they would be fine if you let them live and create a viable country, which is not the hallmark of the slave law. Today, in Hungary, we must continue to talk about the fact that six days a week of work can only be done by one family maintainer to ensure its existential safety. It should be said that factories, such as Magyar Suzuki Zrt., can apply not only the rules of the overtime law without penalty, but also the rules of the Code of Work that provides some protection for employees can be violated by Fidesz. [[18.20]] So, the fact is that I cannot see this whole law as anything else, and the Dialogue for its part will treat it as one of the endowments of a migraine-based political product, a repacking that, in this sense, is not only unnecessary, but infinitely harmful, and one of the most xenophobic rhetoric, the Goebbels propaganda, hopefully, is now the last product of our everyday life in the past four years, with which Fidesz poisoned public life with which Fidesz poisoned the soul and thinking of Hungarian people. So, thank you very much, for our part, we're not asking for any more of this.
u2019-02-19-248	Thank you, Congressman. On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa.
u2019-02-19-249	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'd be responding to a few things in two minutes. Mr Z. Mr. Kárpát also said that earlier statements, parliamentary protocols, so you said that the fence was a huge failure, not even built up, but it has already been proven that it is unfit to defend Hungary. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You know that's not true!]] This was said by your party president, Prime Minister's candidate, Prime Minister's candidate, your party leader who has now turned into a video blogger. But their current leader criticized Hungary in a foreign newspaper because he did not accept immigrants, and because he did not accept the compulsory quota I also looked for speeches when you encouraged voters to go and vote in the quota referendum, but it did not really happen like it did on the part of the vice-president of the party. Not much of your group has been encouraged, since they have also remained silent in relation to the quota vote. You missed the dialogue, but you also attacked the national consultation on Hungary's security and immigration as one of the very important instruments of dialogue. When we asked people what they thought about this, when people could express their views on this, you also attacked that national consultation. I said that the opposition almost didn't give us any help. You can look back on the record, that's what I said. The fact that you voted in favour of the military or the defence, I believe that as Members of Parliament, it was our most fundamental duty, and we, too, were to vote in favour of the military. It's very funny when Congressman Arato or Congressman Bellozó talks about police terrorism and police state. The 2006 eye-shooting gang is talking about the fact that a police state is being built because it becomes an alien police agency from the Immigration and Asylum Office. We are not disappointed in you, you are pro-immigration, and support those Brussels proposals to take border protection away from Hungary and place it in its external hands. It's become obvious now. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2019-02-19-250	Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a two-minute comment.
u2019-02-19-251	Mr President, Dear House, I would urge my pro-government fellow Member not only to try to be strong, but also to be a strong character. Because when you tell me something that you know is a lie, it certainly doesn't sound like a strong character. You know very well that Gábor Vona talked not about the fence being a failure, but about the fact that the fence alone is not able to stop, let's say, Africa's future billionaire surplus if it wanted to fall on Europe or even partly on Hungary. So you know very well that you're not telling the truth. I do not think that there is a need for such a level of debate between us when we have a lot of problems to solve. And I would also like to tell you that you may have failed to search for Google, as regards, where appropriate, my or my fellow Vice-Presidents' requests for a quota vote, but ask me. Ask me here during a debate, ask me in the corridor, and you will find a partner in it, I will tell you now, in the record, that I reject any quota-like solutions. I reject all forms of alien resettlement in Hungary, and I do so in the case of rich migrants, which you support, because with the support or even the tolerance of the establishment bond scheme, you have committed the amazing historical betrayal that would have criminal consequences for those affected in any normal country. They joined forces with brokerage companies, companies registered in tax havens and, by the way, with billions of companies making a 100 billion-dollar invasion, also damaging the Hungarian budget, after which I would encourage it to be sufficiently contained. Once again, if you want to initiate a fair debate, you can find openness and partners in it. The problem is that very few attempts have been made to start these fair debates in the last nine years and less and less in recent months. It's not gonna do you any good. Your government will end someday, and we will all, as well, be responsible for what we have said, for what we have done and for what we have not done in our time. Therefore, telling the truth is a very important virtue, please let us all practice it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-252	Thank you, Congressman. Now we're going back to normal comments. Congressman Lajos Rig has spoken. He has the floor.
u2019-02-19-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't mean to say anything, but the obligation to tell the truth is for everyone, just as it is for Congressman Nacsa. I can't be mad at you because you believe what you're saying, and I'll leave that to you. But I trust that at the meeting of the Welfare Committee, when we are talking about a HUF 4 billion item, because of the healing of children with muscular dystrophy, you will still be so active, and you will also believe that the cost of 4 billion dollars, which you believe is not great, I think you will also support that these sick children, who have nothing else to do but to get out of the wheelchair and run with their partner, will support this; as Jobbik has supported the conduct of defence to the border. Your statement, my fellow Member, is that you were not here, because Jobbik did not encourage people to vote for the quota population, it is an obvious lie. Do you stand for this statement now? My constituency includes four major cities: Sümeg, Tapolca, Ajka and Badacsonytomaj. I'd like to mention Tapolca. [[Károly Kontrat: You do not have a constituency, as you are not an individual representative!]] I'm talking about 2016, Mr. Secretary. That was the quota vote. And if you'll allow me to finish, then you'll understand what I'm about to say. Who held a residential forum there in 2016? The Fidesz held one on which 22 people could not fill a small room. A week later, the mayor of Tapolca asked a security policy expert, György Nógrádi, to come to our city and talk about migratory pressures, the migration crisis, and the whole of Europe, the whole world. He gave a full-house lecture for 350 people. The municipality of Sümeg, which has a Fidesz city management, has not held a single residential forum except Jobbik, because we meant it. The city council didn't take it seriously, they thought they'd take care of it up there in Pest. Congressman Nacsa, I would ask you with all my heart that if you say anything, you should look it up first, because what you said is purely a lie. And as I began my speech, I would like to finish it. Since you are a member of the People's Welfare Committee, and I now anticipate good intentions, I trust that a good presentation, which serves a good cause, and a minimum of 4 billion forints, which is not a large sum, since Puskás Stadium is built of much more than one, we will give those children and small adults the opportunity to stand up from the wheelchair if not such speeches, but at least to support this. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-254	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2019-02-19-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, seems to have knocked out the fail-safe with his presentation. On the one hand, in the crisis situation in 2015, Jobbik has been instrumental in drawing up legislation as soon as possible so that it can develop at the border and avoid further migratory pressure. Please look into it, and you'll see that we've been pushing for it. Again, he may not have been able to tell the truth about this bill because of indiscretions. There will continue to be administrative procedures in these cases, only one organisational integration has taken place. So you said it wrong when you said there would be no administrative procedure. But there will be, only within the framework of a different organizational system, i.e. it's like a company has been merged into another company, but it's still going to be the same procedure. [[18.30]] In particular, because refugee and foreign police matters are regulated by law and the Geneva Convention, which was established in 1951, and Hungary was the first of the socialist countries to ratify it on 1 March 1989, before the Republic was declared, because Hungary thought that at that time during the democratic transition, it was connected to all international conventions that justified Hungary's wish to be transferred from the socialist system to a democratic rule of law. Then there are the Dublin conventions, the Dublin Protocols, which also bind the Hungarian authority. So in the course of the procedure, these should also be applied, so the propaganda that you want to create this organizational change now in order to make foreign police and asylum matters even more effective, I very much hope that there will not be a propaganda programme for the M1 newscast, given that this organizational integration will in no way make this issue better in its capacity, and that citizens will not be safe in any way. Moreover, the general part justifies referring to public and national security interests, as if the organisations so far could not have obtained from the services data that could have shown whether a particular applicant was dangerous to the public and to the national security interests. The reason why I spoke very kindly after the author is because we always strive to support what is good, what is good, what is good, what is good, what is forward-looking. However, we do not tolerate the fact that we stand in this way on such a proposal, which, in my view, is completely unnecessary, but let us assume goodwill, and then we get that, in the case of migration, we have done something not to combat this extremely serious crisis. The following is: individual representatives and national lists. Every day we receive from you that we are not the individual representatives of any area and that we dare to speak. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what we said!]] Now, once and for all in this speech, I refuse to speak to all Fidesz and KDNP, because the system of voting rights is twofold, individual representatives and list representatives have the same powers, and it is natural that where we come from, where we were born, where we grew up, where we live, we represent the interests of Veszprém, Kaposvár, Budapest, Nyíregyháza or Szombathely. We are national list representatives, i.e. in addition to our local patriotism we represent all the citizens of the entire country, and that is why we are going to the Suzuki factory, which is why I am going to Mezőkösd for a court hearing when our fellow warrior tries to crush his rights, and Tállai is the right-hand man of András Tállai. So we're everywhere, we're there because that's what the citizens have authorized us to do. I would like to say that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has never won an individual mandate, and for a very long time he has not dared to go on it; because once, he did not win. So it would be nice to spare their own leader, their own boss, when they ask such questions. I'm so sick of it! It's a matter of fence, Mr. Lőrinc Nacs. It is also true, what my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, said that the whole problem is not solved by the fence, but otherwise Gábor Vona said what he said when I presented it, so they built a crossroads for a fence. [[You're making a move like you're crossing a barrier.]] If you'd like to take a look at it, because you were very young at the time, and you don't remember building a jackass like that, as if it would prevent a single person from coming into our border. There were several politicians who simply had to laugh in agony about who thought it was called a fence. So I would also like to draw your attention to this with great respect. And then when the organizations assigned to it really made a fool of themselves with this bull system, the actual fence started to be built. It's a quota vote. Jobbik supported the quota vote despite the fact that once again, there is no answer to this factor. The question was not what the people wanted. It says that on this issue, society empowers Parliament to make a decision. But it wasn't written in this question about the content of his decision. They asked the people for an option, a transmission, an unfilled transmission, and Jobbik humbled himself to this deceitful, lying question, and talked people into it, only so that they would not be able to say after ten years that it prevented the expression of the people's will in this matter. So, with such a deceitful, lying and totally inappropriate question, they tried to fool society and mislead it. Poor people didn't understand what that sentence was about, because it was quite subtle, but when we analyzed it, we knew that the people didn't say with a vote in the referendum what Parliament should decide on the issue of migration. Bianko will give Parliament a cheque, and if you are in the mood to do so, hundreds of thousands of migrants will be relocated here, because, say, you need a workforce. I would like to point out that there is no special difference for me between a Syrian trained doctor and a Ukrainian handiworker, I would just like to say. I do not yet know from what countries you are actually helping people who are coming to work to 10,000 people in everyday life. A population exchange is taking place in Hungary, the organizer of which is the government itself. You have to take note of that. And does anyone in this room have the nerve to tell a betterman that he was supporting migration or that he wasn't helping the government? ! This is unacceptable! I thought that in this proposal, after I started with a word of praise myself, the Fidesz and KDNP representative might be holding back and finally not walking into us, right? He doesn't walk into us, but we can continue this trial in a gentleman's way. Eyeballs. Come on. Then I'd like to ask you with all due respect. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Armored Car!]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Armored Car!]] (Dániel Z. Kárpát: Armor Car!) It's too late to know where the eye-shooters are being prosecuted, where the severe punishments are. Who stopped you from putting your eyeballs in jail? We talk about it, of course, every single moment, when I'm hugging a fellow Member like I usually hug a fidesz, I hug the KDNP, because there are a lot of people I'm in a very good relationship with, and I'm in a very good relationship with. It's just not photographed by the pro-government press, because it's not that interesting. So no one's ever been furnished with eyeballs, and the eye-shooters would be long gone if the Fidesz D.A.'s office first, and then his court convicted these people. Your activity is that until today, Ferenc Gyurcsány is a representative and faction leader. If he's committed crimes that you guys are always chanting when it's in your best interest, then why is this man here? Why aren't the crowds of eyeballs in prison? For these are crimes against man, which are to be rewarded for many years. Then why? But can we talk about it? But we're stigmatizing? But we can force the current politician, who wants to reverse this dictatorship system towards democracy, step on it, that's it? ! Would you please stop doing that? They want to make the most well-intentioned, the most cooperative opposition representative the enemy, even though we do not want to be enemies, because we are all Hungarians, this is the only country we have, we want to manage here, and we want to make this country happy. In this, you have an elementary duty to help and not to dig trenches, create gaps and classify who is Hungarian and who is not Hungarian. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from your better benches.]]
u2019-02-19-256	Thank you, Congresswoman. No one's applied for a comment. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Károly Kontra if he wants to answer. [[Károly Kontra: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-02-19-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support for the adoption of the proposal in the debate on this proposal. I would like to thank Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea for her first words of praise for the work she has done on the preparation and submission of the bill for the staff of the Ministry of Interior. I believe that this is in the interests of the nation, and I am pleased that the Congresswoman has acknowledged this. [[18.40]] I would like to answer your questions raised in your first comment. With regard to the new status, the implementation of the measures will become simpler in the sense that, so far, the implementation of the alien police measure required an official administrator and a police officer. With the bill, the foreign police can now carry out police action on their own. With regard to the cost requirements arising from the personal changes to the bill, he asked whether there would be an amendment to the budget law. The Ministry of Interior has already started to examine the effects last year, and the design work is ongoing in this respect. As regards the former, in August 2018, a government decision was taken to strengthen the control powers of the Office in view of the migration situation. If the bill is adopted, this goal will also be achieved, my honourable fellow Member. Then I would also like to respond to Mr Tamás Harangozó's comment. There's no competition. He said that the leaders of the various police agencies would compete, and that there might be negative consequences, because there are completely different roles for each organisation. The current specialized task of the migration area will be preserved. He asked how many government officials there are: 1016 government officials currently in the Immigration and Asylum Office. He asked me how it would go on, whether tomorrow they'd get a police uniform, a gun. In this connection, I would like to say that they will be involved in basic law enforcement training, followed by a basic law enforcement exam or a vocational examination. According to the bill, the exams have to be completed by 2022. Part of the staff will only be professional, the other part will be law enforcement and administrative. That is what I wanted to tell my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó. On behalf of our fellow Member Gergely Arató, I would like to say the following. It is false to claim that there is no migration threat. Other opposition fellow Members have also said that. Dániel Z. Kárpát also indicated that he felt that the threat was significant, as the migration process from Africa is a major threat. There are currently three main directions for 2018 data. The number of people arriving in Spain is 62 479. That's a 120 percent increase. The number of people arriving in Italy is 23 192, which represents an 80 percent decrease. The number of people arriving in Greece is 31,867, with an increase of around 5%. The Balkan route is still active. The number of people staying there in January 2018 is approximately 60 thousand, this year 70 thousand people in the same period. In the Bihác camp there are repeated riots, conflicts. There is one thing I would like to say not only to Gergely Arató, but also to all my opposition fellow Members who have concluded with regard to migration data that there is no need for such strength and such measures. I would like to say that the migration threat cannot be played. It is necessary to maintain a permanent state of security for Hungary and the interests of the Hungarian people, since there is no mistake here, my fellow Members. Returning to the Immigration and Asylum Office, the staff of the Office cannot make a legal statement until Parliament has passed the law. So that's what I'd like to say. I would like to reject Mr Gergely Arató's statement that the government is recruiting refugees. I wish you good morning, we do not recruit refugees, we act for the national interests of Hungary, for the safety of Hungarian people, and we protect Hungary from illegal migrants as we have done so far. It was also unfounded for Gergely Arató to say that there was a batoning and that he spoke of batons in a rather demagogic way. I completely reject this, honourable Member Gergely Arató, who is sitting in the notary's pulpit. I say to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, who I welcome with respect: Mr Minister of Interior at the informal meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council held in Bucharest in the framework of the current Romanian Presidency, he made it clear at this meeting, and he also came over in the press, and he made it public that Hungary was in favour of increasing the number of Frontex from the current four hundred to ten thousand people until 2027. In the first phase, the aim could be to create about 3,000 strong stocks. This could help countries unable to defend the EU's external borders alone, but it was only on the condition that Minister supported this, and he also made it clear that operational units could be deployed with the consent of the host State. I believe that this is acceptable to all national emotional Members, and this may be the starting point in this regard, honourable Member. There is one more thing I would like to say that needs to be clearly stated. Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, has never supported, has never accepted, has never signed any quota agreement, no mandatory quota allocation. That is what I would like to say here, because that is what is real. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important that this bill be adopted, because the security of Hungarian people, the security of Hungary, requires more to be done every day in order to maintain this security. Thank you to my fellow Members who have given their support to this proposal. I trust that this will also be reflected in the vote, and that is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-02-19-258	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of Defence Industrial Qualified Data until its closure. The government referral is T/4069. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2019-02-19-259	Thank you, Mr. President. If peace was sold in a store, we would have to buy it on gold by Géza Gárdonyi in a little-known work [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. László György Lukács: We thought it was Matolcsy!]] In Abel and Esther. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The CLV on the protection of classified information was adopted by the Parliament on 14 December 2009. a law that has since determined the legal environment for the information and data to be protected. In this connection, I ask that we discuss and adopt the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of classified data in defence. The conclusion of the agreement is a condition and a guarantee of Hungary's participation in the Hungarian-Turkish defence industrial cooperation involving the exchange of classified information. In 2016, the government launched the largest defence and force development programme of the last half century with the. This serves both to revive the Hungarian defence industry and to expand and develop related international and bilateral relations. I stress that since 2010 Hungary's foreign policy has a fundamental task of representing and protecting Hungarian interests internationally. Our aim is to enhance the performance of the Hungarian economy and culture and to strengthen our positions in the world. In this spirit, we also concluded the agreement before us. Within the framework of the Hungarian-Turkish security cooperation to ensure mutual protection, the competent national security authorities shall process the classified information provided under the Convention, provide each other with information and assistance, recognise each other's personal and site security certificates and, if necessary, conduct mutual visits to verify the processing of classified data. [[18.50]] In view of this, the content of this international agreement also covers the principles of the protection of classified information, the way in which they are transferred, the way in which they are translated and the destruction. In the spirit of the condition of reciprocity, the convention defines the Hungarian qualification levels, so the . Limited Distribution! It's confidential. It's a secret! It's top secret! In addition, the Turkish and English equivalents of certifications. Ladies and gentlemen, Our agreement with Turkey on the protection of classified information is neither exceptional nor novel in our bilateral international relations. Although not exactly the same content, we have signed the Convention on the Mutual Protection and even Exchange of Classified Information with several States, which the Parliament has ratified by law. These countries include Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, France, Belgium, Austria, Italy, Russia, Sweden, Macedonia, which is now known as Northern Macedonia, Albania, Slovenia, Croatia, Spain, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Cyprus and Finland, and Korea. The content of agreements on the protection of classified information always varies in particular, where only mutual protection is involved, where data exchange is also the subject of the contract; some are universal, but, for example, we have agreed with South Korea specifically on the exchange and protection of military data. This proposal is intended to protect classified data in the defence industry and is just another one in this row. This is also intended to serve the development and security of our country's emerging defence industry. This also contributes to building the most modern and powerful army in the region, the Hungarian Defence Force, which ensures the peace, territorial integrity and security of our country, while fully fulfilling our NATO and the European Union's federal obligations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If peace was sold in a store, we'd have to buy it in gold. I've just summoned Gardonyi. One of the basic pillars of the program of defense and force development of Zrínyi 2026 is that the most important thing is the soldier, the man himself. However, the military must be equipped with insufficient, modern and effective means, uniforms, handguns, self-defense and communication systems. All this requires the modern and productive Hungarian military industry. Industrial cooperation, whether civil or military, national or international, has always rested on the basis of strong trust of the parties. The agreement on the protection of classified information meets all these requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on the above, I ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Miklós Simon and Zoltán Tessely applaud.]]
u2019-02-19-260	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Tessely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-02-19-261	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The Act on the Protection of classified information adopted on 14 December 2009 and entered into force on 1 April 2010 established the legal basis for the conclusion and application of bilateral confidentiality agreements. The implementation of the Act on the Protection of classified information, the fulfilment of Hungary's international commitments, the development of industrial cooperation with Turkey, and the establishment or entry into force of the Convention is of particular importance in order to ensure closer cooperation on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data in the defence industry. This Convention provides for procedures and principles to ensure the security of classified defence industrial information within the framework of the cooperation of competent security authorities or eligible persons in the countries of the Parties, in accordance, of course, with their relevant national legislation. The Convention identifies the competent security authorities which are required to inform and cooperate with each other in the event of a breach of security. Technical clauses are also laid down in the Convention, such as the definition and use of the level of classification of classified information, the way such data is transmitted, and the rules governing the translation, copying and destruction of data. The Convention is clearly for the safety of Hungary, so please support the publication of the Convention. Thank you for listening. [[István Szilárd Németh and Dr. Miklós Simon applaud.]]
u2019-02-19-262	Thank you, Congressman. Next, I give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-02-19-263	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking from the speaker's stand on this subject because I think it is extremely important to ask why this convention comes before the House, why the Hungarian Government has signed this agreement, and what are the pitfalls, what are the unforeseen circumstances that the wallet conceals from the voters, and is silent from the Members of Parliament. I think it is very telling that the KDNP Group is not represented in this Chamber, it is not speaking in this matter as a party of government, and I think that this is not for nothing, just as the KDNP was not involved in the debate on the slave law. What are my problems and what are the problems of the Jobbik faction with this agreement? First of all, Mr Secretary of State was not here in this House when I said, in connection with the conventions negotiated earlier and their submission as a proposal, how much higher the Ministry of Interior has the mechanism for making proposals, how well-developed, correct and fully legislative proposals are presented, while this is the T/4069 for ratification of this Convention. Bill No. 1 is a piece of work and is not fit to negotiate this. It is unacceptable that, as a general justification, the Convention should be established in particular because of the development of defence industrial cooperation with Turkey and the need for closer cooperation on the exchange and mutual protection of classified data in the defence industry. We all know that we are a member of NATO. NATO has 29 Member States, and there is only one out of 29 Member States with whom the Hungarian Government would have called for such a convention. The Secretary of State referred to the convention concluded in the presentation with several countries, but it must not be forgotten that they are conventions on the exchange of general classified information, as was the ratification process of the Convention concluded with Luxembourg and Romania today, and we know exactly how different the Convention on the Exchange and Protection of Simple Qualified Data is than specifically the Convention on the Mutual Exchange of Defence Industrial Qualified Information. We all know well, especially in the military industry, that industrial secrets, industrial data are sensitive data, and I think that if such a proposal comes before the House, then we also need to see what government the Hungarian Government has concluded this agreement with its own people, how the government behaves and is expected of it, who is doing amazing things to its own citizens, that in such a relationship, even if the agreement regulates the rules of detail, it will act in the same way as is appropriate for the fair interests of Hungary. [[19.00]] But I'd like to get back to my professional question. Article 2 (3) states that any type of military vehicle and equipment is the one for which the common defence data are intended. The problem is this: this terminology list lacks the word "supplier." Why is the word "mechanism" important? Because the vehicle, the vehicle and the equipment are stable static devices, which cannot in any way contain weapons, for example, must not include non-vehicle but mobile devices. This removes a number of defence industrial instruments from the scope of terminology, which makes it doubtful whether this convention can be fully and accurately applied. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that the English version of the Convention is much more chiselled, much more precise, and it is possible to include the instruments rather than the Hungarian translation. So, with all due respect, I would ask that the Ministry do so in the process of legislating, that the text be translated in accordance with the English text, given that it is not formal enough to describe precisely the scope. I would like to point out that the first paragraph of Article 3 (1) defines which organisation in the two countries is in contact, which organisations are involved in the implementation of this Convention. This indicates that the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy is acting on behalf of Hungary. I would like to point out that there has been no Ministry of National Economy since 8 May 2018. In view of the fact that point 2 of the same Article states that the parties should inform each other of the changes, nothing has prevented the Ministry of Defence from reporting this change to the other party, and before submitting this bill to Parliament for ratification, it would have been possible to eliminate this problem with an additional protocol, and Members of Parliament would not have been obliged to vote for a text of a convention in which the executor, the owner of the convention, as an organization does not exist. It is true that the Ministry of Finance has taken over most of the powers of the Ministry of National Economy, but it must not be forgotten that the Ministry of Innovation has received from the same system of tasks, so we must see today: if this law, this law, is voted, then at that moment it will also be possible to ratify the amendment to the Convention, which consumes money, time and energy. In this way, I would suggest to the Honourable Ministry of Defence that, not knowing this, it does not waste much time, withdraws this proposal, in an additional protocol with the Turkish partner, prepare the amendment of the Convention and submit it in a uniform structure so that Parliament can approve it. But I would also like to talk about a very important issue on the proposal, and that is that this bill was submitted by the Ministry of Defence and what do we see? The owner of the exchange of classified data in defence industry in Hungary is not the Minister of Defence and is not the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, but the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy. Doesn't the Hungarian government trust officials and state leaders of the Ministry of Defence? Well, are we talking about defense records here, or is this agreement about covering up some other subject? Because it is true that in the context of international relations trade in defence industrial products, economic ministries are generally involved, but in defence data, defence industrial data, there is no longer a defence wallet. On the Turkish side, the Turkish Ministry of Defence is the owner of this case. With great respect, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to explain in his reply what caused it to happen that it is not the Minister of Defence or a Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence who is involved in the implementation of this Convention. As I said earlier, there are 29 Member States in NATO, and there is no other Member State with which we would have concluded this type of agreement, although... and allow us to describe some countries and some defence industrial products that we are constantly exchanging with each other, in terms of both imports and exports in Hungary, so I consider that if this convention and the subject of this convention are important for Hungary and for the maintenance and development of our defence system, how is it possible that we have not initiated such an agreement with the following countries? I would like to draw attention to Sweden, from which we bought the Gripens; we are talking about a rather sensitive issue, we are talking about instruments that are important for the security of our country, but nothing like this has been concluded. Or, for example, I could bring here the BTR modernisation that we have made with Russia and Poland, and how interesting it is that neither with Russia nor with Poland have we initiated a treaty of this kind. But now, for example, one of the most important tools in the area of development of forces for the sake of the Zrínyi 2026 is the Leopard, which we order from Germany in a very large number of ways I think, and we may think that this involves very serious protected industrial data from one country to the next, but no one has initiated such an agreement with Germany. Or I'll just give you one example: Germany is the one that buys from the country the Mercedes that have a tower in order to shoot at them. Either I continue: with the United Kingdom we have established a business in which we have received Viking SUVs, either from the US, or from Italy special military trucks, or from Germany outside the aforementioned Leopards and Mercedes shooting towers, the Bundeswehrs, the Unimogs, which are very important factors in transport. We also know how seriously Hungary is involved in the refurbishing of arms, the military companies operating alongside the Ministry of Defence, which are involved in weapons development, have exported amazing quantities abroad, this is a very high level of work, but we have not initiated the exchange of these classified defence data through agreements. I would therefore like to present to the honourable Members of Parliament that I have a very strong feeling, and I feel that it is justified that this convention, in fact, has a different cause with Turkey. The government won't tell us why. I am afraid that in the context of such a treaty relationship they will be of a kind, I consider that it is not certain for the people of Hungary to have pleasing relations, which are dangerous for the security of Hungary. I'd like to make a modest remark and stress that I don't want to joke about it at all, but while the pro-government press constantly accuses members of my group of Muslim worship and Allah worship, this country with which we have just concluded this treaty, we know that to this day, it still honors Allah and considers him to be his god. From now on, I'll ask you who the Muslim and Allah worshipper is. But aside from the joke, [[István Németh Szilárd: It wasn't funny! Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Yours is not particularly funny either!]] In Turkey, many journalists are in prison unsubstantiated. The Constitutional Court has already established the existence of several journalists, judges, lawyers in illegal prisons, illegal proceedings, and, in contrast, the Turkish Government still has a large number of innocent people in prison. If a Democrat doesn't speak out against the conditions that are possible in Turkey even in a treaty, then that man is not a Democrat. I wish to stress that the people of Turkey are very much appreciated and respected. Turkey's people are making amazing sacrifices to protect Europe's southern sea, to stop any activity that comes to the southern sea, which is offensive or will intervene, and the people of Turkey are making a very big sacrifice for where they are geopolitically. [[19.10]] Turkey's people are making amazing sacrifices so that Turkey can endure living there for 2 million refugees over a decade. The people of Turkey deserve to be thanked and respected in an extraordinary way for their activities. But the people of Turkey must be separated from the Turkish government, where an autocratic system has been built, where virtually everyone who gives their opinion is dangerous. This is why it can happen in Turkey, including with the Turkish people, by condemning an international judge on charges of terrorism by protesting against it by the entire international judicial system and humanitarian organisations. Prisoners are tortured and raped, including men and women; international observers are not allowed to meet prisoners or their representatives. An American minister is accused of helping terrorism when he is a simple Christian minister doing his job and spreading love. I would like to say, fellow Members, that it is very important to consider it, even if it is very important for us to cooperate in the international relations system, even with our allies. But this bill is about something other than what's in it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-264	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would like to give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-02-19-265	Dear House, He demonstrated his exemplary sense of style, historical knowledge and literary knowledge, Mr. State Secretary, when he chose his introductory quote from Géza Gárdonyi to his expoze, as he is well known for his great novel, the Egri stars, to commemorate the centuries of Hungarian-Turkish friendship. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] I have to say that this was a good hit, and your colleagues had a lot of work to do on this until they found this great quote. But the thing is not so funny when you think about it more seriously, because for example, I remember that even the Egri stars have been used by you to build an anti-Muslim, anti-Islamic political campaign. And when we get here, we're gonna find some really weird relationships here. What we see is that on one side you fear Europe from the influence of Islam, fear Europe from the Muslims, and on the other hand who is the best friend, who is the best friend to do business with: the Turkey of Erdoğan. I remember when a few months ago your holy press attacked a party president by saying even a few words in Turkish. Looks like it's forbidden in opposition, but on the government, we can do everything we can on the tube, especially if there's money in it. And this is a very specific choice because it is true that Turkey is our ally in NATO, but I must say that whoever has such an ally does not need an enemy. It is this Turkey that plays a rather sad role in Syria. This Turkey is the one that makes up and fights monthly with the other enemy of the Western world and your great friend, President Putin, and keeps destabilizing the region. This Turkey is the one that sometimes threatens to leave NATO. I must say that if there is a country to which Hungary must stay away from in terms of defence cooperation, then it must be Turkey. And not because this is a Muslim country only weird from you, but because Turkey is not committed to defence cooperation with Western European countries, Turkey plays a rather negative role in these matters because of its own small power or mid-power dreams. And you want to start a joint defence development with this country. We've managed to find the best subject. I have to say that even if I say it very carefully, this is an irresponsible endangerment not only of the Hungarian security interests but also of the security interests of the entire Western federal system. I know you have the money, especially with you, which makes Turkey a Christian country, and Turkey a reliable NATO alliance, but this business is not worth it, just for those of you who take it from your own friends, relatives, friends and business partners. Of course, I also know that there is another attractive, likable thing in the Erdoğani model, as she has mentioned, that the Erdoğani system is crushing human rights in the same way, shutting up civil society organisations in the same way, trying to suppress protests and resistance in the same way as you are trying to silence opposition parties and representatives. There is no doubt that you are very sympathetic to the Erdoğan model, which is based on the silence of the opposition and the disregard for the rights of the people. The government that ignores the interests of Hungarian families; the government that ignores the interests of Hungarian workers; the one that enslaves Hungarian workers force them to spend 400 hours of overtime; the one that refuses to engage in dialogue with employees' representatives, its trade union, and refuses to engage in dialogue with people, protesters; the government that beats opposition representatives; the one that punishes them, if they use their representatives' rights; the one that drowns the word in them; the one who wants to make the opposition financially impossible, finds very close spiritual relatives in Turkey of Erdoğan. So, you are making good progress on your way to erdoğanization, but I must say that because we are patriots, we will do everything we can to prevent you from doing to Hungary what Erdoğan did to Turkey. I hope that the current cooperation and the substantial income generated from it and friendships will come in handy when, like their friend in Macedonia, they will need to leave the country urgently and seek asylum in a friendly country. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-02-19-266	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah, there's an applicant. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2019-02-19-267	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to express my sincere pleasure at the fact that it now appears in all areas where the issue of migration may appear. Otherwise, they could become productive debates in the near future. The review of the Hungarian position on Turkey is particularly acute. On the one hand, I appreciate the government's intention to open up, it may be surprising for an opposition representative, but at the same time it is possible to take seriously any strategy of action by the government and to mention it if this government makes its own position clear. I, whether I am interested in Szilárd Németh or not, or within the framework of the closing word, really refer to the Hungarian position. We also laid down in the previous debate that for Jobbik, Mr Németh, there is only one solution that can be accepted: neither rich nor poor migrants are wanted to be introduced, admitted, protected or seen in any form in Hungary in the long term. It is clear that Fidesz cannot identify with us on this principle, as it has allowed tens of thousands of people in this area with the residency bond programme for rich migrants, I imagine you do not dispute it. At a time when Hungary was not in need of this, there was no budgetary situation, hundreds of billion-dollar brokerage funds were cheated out, and the Hungarian budget was also affected by ten billion-dollar damage. When I talk about how the Hungarian position arises with regard to Turkey, I reach and think quite far away. For example, even Origo acknowledges that the number of illegal asylum seekers and residents in Turkey has increased by magnitude, and that the number of people captured in the last one year has shown a further increase, and the question arises as to what happens if there is a larger crowd of people from either this region or another at the borders of Hungary. Calm me down, but I suppose you wouldn't act like you did when the Keleti Railway Station was converted into the Middle Eastern Railway Station, because you were helpless, you did nothing, and this was where the parliamentary meeting took place, while thousands and thousands of newcomers first migrated to Budapest and then to the motorways. [[19.20]] I believe that they would not do so now, but the question arises in Turkey's relationship, too, that if a larger crowd were to start, what would Hungarian behaviour be like? I'd like to ask you specifically one thing. If, at the moment, we are talking about accommodation, camp, agreements with countries providing apparent security, cooperation, joint work with the government, then what happens if someone is insured by you, although it is true that by choosing a narrow, but still legal immigration route, he does not, say, buy a settlement policy, but he appears as a protected person in Hungary; we also know a great number of such ones. I have before me, let's say, a summary of credit net.hu about who can apply for a CSOK. In the previous months, I have brought myself to the House several times that CSOK may be requested alongside a Hungarian citizen by a person who is emigrated or established according to the list and list. We also discussed earlier that the Municipality of Budapest has supposedly enlightened very wide masses, not Hungarian citizens, the possibility of hiring CSOK, and now, when the Government of Hungary, supported by me, seems to expand the CSOK in line with the better idea, and that is good, I appreciate that, with braked foaming compared to our idea, because we would not only expand the credit mass, but also the property used to support it, the question arises whether this loophole will remain open. So would Szilárd Németh and his associates in the government allow people with emigrated or established status to use the CSOK, where appropriate? This is a very simple, technical question. I would like to take advantage of this debate because there is a meaningful and existing link between the subject of the debate and the behaviour of the Government of Hungary, and this behaviour of the government also affects some elements of the family support programme. I would therefore be very interested in a specific position, a specific answer, that in such a theoretical case, which, I very much trust, belongs only to the category of political science fiction, whether or not you can obtain, claim, take a CSOK emigrated or with established status. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-268	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Turdai.
u2019-02-19-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, What Hungary can learn from Turkey is not necessarily about the defence industry, but that if it already has an anti-democratic government, it should at least not call itself a republic. This is the other way around, if we think about it: Turkey, which is not a republic, still calls itself the Republic of Turkey, and the Fidesz government was so kind that when the Constitution was rewritten and the Constitution was annulled, and a work called the Fundamental Law was placed in its place in a completely illegal procedure, then it took the word "the Republic" out of Hungary's name, and from then on, although the form of state is, in principle, a republic, but not a Republic of Hungary, it must refer to our beloved country as Hungary. So that is what you then can teach your Turkish colleagues to be honest at least in this regard. I fear that the Hungarians and the Hungarian government, the Fidesz government, can learn from Turkey in other areas, such as the situation of workers, at least I do not know that there is a slave law in Turkey. This may have been a practice in the territory of the Turkish Empire in previous centuries, but modern Turkey does not support the slavery of workers. This is where they differ, it seems, the governments of our countries. It is very regrettable that wherever we look around the world, we find that we meet with more advanced thinking, a policy that puts people's interests first, not an anti-popular, anti-worker, pro-capital, emigration policy that Fidesz-KDNP represents in Hungary. If you ask how this comes to an agreement with the Turkish party, of course you do not, but this is the issue that is important, and what is worth talking about today in Parliament is worth talking about, rather than ratifying international treaties of third importance. Thank you very much.
u2019-02-19-270	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary István Németh Szilárd.
u2019-02-19-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your comments. Although not surprised, it was strange that at this late hour, even eleven times after the eleventh agenda, they could produce the same thing, if you will, in the light of the eleven agendas. This international agreement, this Hungarian-Turkish agreement, which is now ratified, should be accepted by the Parliament, only in support of their pro-immigration policy, against the creation of jobs, tax reduction, family support, family protection and development of defence, although this is nothing more than what I said in my expo: a mutual agreement which is also a condition and a guarantee that the Hungarian and Turkish governments, the Hungarian and Turkish states can cooperate safely in the development of defence industries. But we can't leave with two things. One of them was in the voice of the better Member, as if we were hiding something, that is what she was trying to suggest, but she could not tell us what we were keeping quiet or what she saw in all of this. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Szilárd! He doesn't need to know what you're hiding.]] The agreement is in English, in Hungarian it is in front of everyone, it is clearly visible what is in it, everyone has received it, this agreement is available on the website. So it's about what's in it, what's in this agreement, nothing left out of it, and nothing that could otherwise make this agreement different. I can't put it any better: nothing was withheld from the lodging government, and I would also reply here that the bill was not submitted by the Minister of Defence, not by the Ministry of Defence, but by the government, and the minister was appointed by the government to be rapporteur for this bill. The other one, which I think is a lot rougher than that, which is what Gergely Harvesto did. So, when Gergely Arató talks about the anti-democratic steps he's taking, he tells him the usual Brussels blah-blah that he's been taught, but he could make sure that racism doesn't fall out of you, because the text he said about the Turks, about the Turkish religion, I think it sounds very strange in the Parliament's horseshoe, and I have to reject that. Never, ever was the government, the pro-government Fidesz-KDNP fraction anti-Muslim [[Lajos Rig: Muslim!]] We have always respected the religion and origin of other peoples, and we have always strived for this respect to be mutual. The whole other issue is that we ask that our own religion and our own national culture be respected, who want to cooperate with us. This agreement is also based on mutual respect, and on the possibility that together we are NATO allies, so Turkey is the direct ally of the United States and Hungary, a regional power that, as the congresswoman has pointed out here, is doing a great deal to ensure that Europe is not flooded by migrants, not by two million, but by nearly four million migrants in Turkey, and Turkey is the one that does not allow them into the European Union. This country is doing a great deal to reduce the Islamic State in the Middle East in its entirety, to clean up their country from terrorists in the Middle East, and not to allow them into Europe. Let us also admit that this power, this regional power, maintains one of the most advanced and state-of-the-art armies in the world, so we have something to learn from them. [[19.30]] So I would ask you once again to read this bill and this agreement, and if you think so, then vote for it. The Fidesz-KDNP will vote for you in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-02-19-272	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. On the occasion of the Day of the Hungarian Nursers, MEP László György Lukács applied for a speech after the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-02-19-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, for the fifth year, we have honoured the nurses on the day of the Hungarian nurses, all those who deal with care as a profession in the social, health or even in their own homes or in the civil sphere. In many parts of the country there have been events, central events, and Parliament has also started today's meeting by commemorating the day of the Hungarian nurses and telling them all that is necessary for their praise. However, beyond the appreciation of the day of the nurses, it should be said that this holiday is an uneven celebration, because we celebrate their commitment and loyalty, but there is nothing to celebrate much about their situation, the situation of the workers, because it is not really to be celebrated. But why is the very difficult situation that affects nurses, nurses and nurses in the social sphere as well as in the health sector? The Government has repeatedly tried to protect and repeatedly expressed the argument that measures have been taken to increase the respect and respect of nurses, and it must be recognised in this regard, and it must not be overlooked that there have indeed been increases in salaries that are in a very difficult situation and that this applies mainly to health workers, which have been improved in their circumstances at some level. However, there was nothing more advanced than a salary increase that could be achieved, for example, by raising the minimum wage or by raising the minimum salary for other skilled jobs. If you like, their salary has increased at the same rate, their returnable money is the salary of the population, the Hungarian working people. Sadly, this is not enough, and even considering the extremely difficult work done by social and health care professionals, we can say that it is not even a cure for their wounds, nor a patch for their wounds. It should also be seen that at the end of the day, they did not benefit at all, as there are processes, trends in this area, which unfortunately means the emptying of the profession and the cessation of its attractiveness. There's a constant exodus from this area. There's a steady drop in this area. This may be one of the most painful, since within the country, workers are absorbed by professions or other easily accessible jobs where they can offer significantly higher wages and which provide them with a significantly more comfortable job and a higher prestige for these jobs and jobs. There is a constant problem with ageing and lack of supplies. If something is very bad in Hungary, it is vocational training, and perhaps one of the deepest areas of vocational training, that is the care and health training system affecting health and social workers, which has never found its place in the past, which is why this supply, the lack of workers who are so eager to join in and take care of them, and the lack of these workers and future young people. So, one of the most important things is that we don't know how much of the dropout is. We can be aware of about how many people leave this career abroad and choose their profession elsewhere, but we do not know what other profession they choose, so we can't even assess the scale of the problem, just as we can't even assess the problem of drop-out and lack of supplies. Let me tell you one more problem, since we were talking about the overtime bill today. The problem of health and social workers is not that they can or should be required to spend 400 hours overtime. In health care, nurses can take up to 1260 hours of overtime. If we add it up on an annual basis, 1260 hours in one or more legal relationships, one or more overtime hours must be worked out by these workers. It's the only way they can make up for their bad salaries. Today we talked about what a health-damaging thing this is. Imagine, according to their own chamber survey, health workers are in a worse health condition towards the end of their profession, towards the end of their careers than the patients they care for. What kind of health care, what kind of social sphere do we run, where they're in worse shape and the people in it are sicker than the people they should care for? ! However, Jobbik and the profession have a solution, and this is what the government should hear. It is very important to give a greater appreciation, especially with a career model, in which wages, progress, improvement of working conditions are all factors that need to be changed. And, of course, we need to create a stable supply. Unfortunately, on the day of the Hungarian nurses, we can say that the profession can only send a call for help to the public, because there is a great deal to do. I urge our fellow Members to start resolving these problems as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-274	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech after the next agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2019-02-19-275	Mr President, Dear House, When, on one of the first days of Parliament of the year, we wish to have a word about the demographic winter, the Hungarian population disaster, I must state that I do not see a Fidesz representative in the Chamber at the moment. So the government that constantly advertises itself on posters, on various media sites, is simply not interested in this extremely important topic. We must say that Viktor Orbán's seven-point family protection package is basically supported, because it has good ideas, but it has a number of braked foaming and a number of plans that can only help lucky social groups. The last editions of the Demographic Portrait and the Social Report will help us to guide us on why their braked foam effect is unfortunately so low, why it can only be expected to have a temporary effect and how to act in order to give us a real turn of population. It can be seen that the increase in domestic fertility between 2011 and the period of the 16th period, i.e. the increase in fertility rates, I myself have welcomed dozens of times as a success story in Hungary. At the same time, it is worth comparing data in Hungary with data in other EU Member States called former socialists. The reports could not compare with Croatia either, as there were no complete sets of data available here, but there was a significant reduction in fertility in all countries in the region after the change of methodology. Hungary has even received a Bokros package as an additional burden, but it can be seen that in the years around the turn of the millennium, when full fertility rates were measured below 1.3, the 1997 and 2003 periods, with the exception of Hungary, have started to increase fertility in all nine countries here in the region. In Hungary, this process started only after 2010. It can be seen that although improvements have started, the fertility rate has decreased again over the last one year, from 1,53 to 1.5. And the number of live births has also decreased, which is the equivalent of a national disaster, because, let alone we are not against it, but we support every existing solution that can be invented and presented to Parliament in order to improve the situation. Looking at the countries in the region, it can be seen that the previous decrease occurred as a result of the austerity packages and because some of the children that had been postponed were born and another part was not. Following austerity packages, very few families can bear the costs of having children. Demographers call the process of being replaced when these delayed children are born after all. It can be seen that this process has started in the countries of the region, but in Hungary only very late and only partially. As a result, you can see that there are limits to the observed increase in fertility and growth. In the surrounding countries, the increase was about 0.4 percent. If we project this on the Hungarian sample, we can see that the increase in fertility rates is realistic up to levels 1.6 and 1.7, so it is the willingness of women of childbearing age. We see that the base of women of childbearing age, however, is constantly decreasing. [[19.40]] Therefore, one or two years ago, the first year of child-bearing willingness increased, but the number of live births decreased. This implies a catastrophic demographic path, and Hungary should produce an increase that there is no precedent for. In our region, we must make unprecedented progress, and I believe in miracles, I believe in the Hungarian nation, which is why I say, together with all the representatives of my party, that we need national minimums beyond the steps of cosmetic nature. In case of an extension of the CSOK, typical attention should be paid to Hungarian families planning their childless, single-child or second child. By revoking the slave law, security should be provided for everyday life, and the positive feedback and predictability that young Hungarians would need would clearly be ensured with a public-based housing program that provides a positive message for those who struggle with emigration. Because if we don't solve this problem, 40 to 60 or 80 years from now, it's probably not gonna matter what color the government has on the reservation. I would like to prevent Hungary from becoming a reservation, and we must go on as a fair nation state on the path that our ancestors paved well over a thousand years ago. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-276	Member Andrea Varga-Damm came forward after the last day of the meeting:.Remembrance to the Commissioner. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-02-19-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President's words did not show that, when I gave this item the title, the A and the Police were placed between the ranks in capital letters. It came in capital letters because of the death of Brigadier General Mihály Bezsenyi on 25 January 2019. It is rare in the house of the country to commemorate a public servant, like a police officer, after the death of Members of Parliament. It is my fundamental duty, because, on the one hand, I had a huge fan to unfold my life as a lawyer in the Parliamentary Assembly, and it is our 26 years of unbroken friendship that justify me remembering him, the Commissioner, among the walls of this House. He ended his life with his own hand, because in the autumn of last year he had a serious disease that was incurable, the consequences of which could not be avoided even by rehabilitation, and which broke the strong man stopped the strong, dynamic man, and could not see the way out that he could continue the profession he had practiced with the greatest love. Although he studied at the military college in Szentendre, he became a soldier, his place of service was Szombathely, but it was evident that he could not do this static work, because his spirit, soul, and movement were very dynamic. Fortunately, it became a way to get a job at the Budapest Police Headquarters 30 years ago, where he became an investigator, and where we met in 1993 with him investigating a fraud case, in which I was a defender. It's very rare for a defense officer and a police officer to get to know each other in a way that will make a lifetime of friendship. But why was that? Because he was a special cop. He was the policeman who thought, analyzed, watched, who needed to find out the truth, and it wasn't important for him to report himself and get over a case. He chewed on it, analyzed it until one day he could solve the case, and he could tell me that I had found the culprit. During the last week, February 12th, when you had your farewell at the Fiumei Road Cemetery, there were hundreds of policemen. I saw an amazing shock in the eyes of his colleagues, in the body language of his colleagues, and in a fantastic way his immediate colleagues also said good-bye to him. They told me his name was Commander, but not because he once commanded, but because he was respected. He was the Director General of the National Bureau of Investigation, which he has fully earned, and during which organization he has achieved the highest results in law enforcement. The memorialists said that, not only did he never give orders, but he only always asked, suggested, asked, and treated his colleagues, especially his younger colleagues, as if they had children of his own. I myself was extremely surprised when I heard him talking to his subordinates on the phone, and I felt like he was talking to his own child. It's very rare. I felt that, among the walls of Parliament, for ever, in the parliamentary records, it would be possible for Brigadier General Mihály Bezsenyi to be respected by the Hungarian people, by his colleagues, even by the burdened, loved and respected, and for the wonderful work that he set as an example in the police organization, we wish that all future police officers and all the police officers who are doing this work should, in his wake, do with his spirit at such a high level as Mihály Bezsenyi did. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-02-19-278	Thank you, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
