u2019-06-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 3rd day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, In the coming days, I would like to draw your attention to two days in June that are of paramount importance in the calendar of the freedom-loving Hungarian nation. 18 years ago, in May 2001 the National Assembly adopted the XVII. Act on the importance of regaining the country's freedom and on the day of Hungarian freedom. The provisions of this will commemorate the day of the last foreign occupation soldier's departure from our country, 19 June to a national memorial day; and the last Saturday of June in honor of the earned freedom, which will be declared the day of Hungarian freedom by the 29th of June this year. The Soviet army, which made significant sacrifices to the end of the Second World War, was initially present in Hungary as a liberator, and in subsequent decades as an invader of the eastern half of a divided Europe based on the agreement of the great powers. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The temporary status of the army group stationed in our country seemed to be eternal from the inside, but the brave representatives of the Hungarian nation took action against their presence in 1956 and then in the opposition movements of the '70s and '80s. In 1989, the wheels of history turned in the right direction, and favourable international events allowed us to establish a framework for our total freedom and rule of law. Hungary left the first Soviet Corps on April 25, 1989. The bilateral negotiations on total team withdrawal took place in early 1990, resulting in large amounts of military material, military equipment and, not least, military personnel leaving the country for the next 15 months. Ladies and gentlemen, On 19 June 1991, Lieutenant General Viktor Silov, the last Soviet soldier crossed the border. With this, we had a dream of nearly half a century: for the first time since 19 March 1944, there has been no foreign forces invading the territory of Hungary. From this day on, the Hungarian people will be able to decide their own fate freely, without any external military threat. You can take the lead in the legacy of revolutions and freedom fights that have been ignited over the centuries. In the words of the poet, freedom is only where they can die and live for it, understanding its word. Let's remember that on these two June days. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, It follows that the general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2020 will begin. The bill is T/6322. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/632/4. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office and Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to the hearing. I would like to inform you that during the hearing of the bill, the Committee on Budgets shall act under the jurisdiction of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today, as well as the main rules of the debate.
u2019-06-19-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 12-hour timeframe is divided into 247 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 113 minutes for the KDNP Group, 97 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 77 minutes for the MSZP Group, 58 minutes for the DK Group, 53 minutes for the LMP Group, 50 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 25 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, if the MEP has applied through the head of the group, his speech will be included in the speaking time of the group which announced it as a speaker. [[8.10]] Where he has made a direct application, his statement shall not be included in the time frame and shall be granted a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent Member, each within a seven-minute time frame. On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, the representative of the ethnic minority of Hungary, who has been invited by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, will speak in a total of 60 minutes, which will not be included in the timeframe.
u2019-06-19-2	Thank you, Mr. István Tiba. Dear Parliament, In the general debate today, in a 40-minute time frame, the President of the State Audit Office spoke in a 30-minute time frame, the President of the Board of Budgets spoke in a 30-minute time frame, in a 30-30-minute time frame, for the speakers of the political groups, the representative of nationalities invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, in a 20-minute time frame; then for the first independent representative to make his speech, and then for the further speeches to the extent of the time frame of each faction. We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-06-19-3	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is my honor to present the draft budget to you for the sixth time, this time for the year 2020. The planning practice of the last year has always been driven by an assessment of the opportunities and opportunities, sound consideration and caution, achieving the goals of the country and the nation. This is why in recent years we have been able to put the Hungarian economy on a path that has been constantly growing, we have been able to increase the number of jobs, people have felt that wages, earnings are constantly growing, and, in addition, we have been able to significantly reduce the accumulated legacy, the massive debt. The government is now presenting its plans with two clear and understandable logics. We want to reduce taxes, public debt, increase wages, investment, jobs, all this. We seek full employment wherever anyone wants to find a job. Dear House, The 2020 budget is a budget for supporting families, focusing on implementing the family protection action plan. The government has submitted a budget to the Parliament, which primarily provides assistance and security to families, children and educators. Our aim is to make Hungary a family-friendly place; the child remains the first for the government. Another key element of the budget is the provision of resources for the economic protection action plan. The aim is to protect the results of the Hungarian economy so far, and in the slowing European and global economy environment we can maintain our growth rate above the EU average. To this end, Hungary must remain a safe country, which is another prerequisite for growth. Spring budget planning has proved many times in recent years. This is the fifth year that gives everyone a period of preparation, almost six months to learn about the government's measures for the following year, so that families and businesses can plan ahead in their own lives, in their operations, taking into account the potential and benefits of the financial and economic regulatory environment. The foundation of Hungary's development is a strong society, and therefore the strengthening of families is a nation-wide strategic goal which is supported more than ever by the internationally recognised performance of the Hungarian economy and its substantial achievements since 2010. Family protection measures aimed at achieving a population turnout will help the implementation of young people's family-based, child-bearing and home-building plans to a greater extent than ever before. They also enforce the recognition of the efforts of large families, they can contribute to strengthening Hungarian small settlements and increasing the population of our country. In recent years, the performance of the Hungarian economy has surpassed most of the newly joined EU Member States, and it has also substantially exceeded the European Union average, resulting in an accelerated catch-up process with which we want to get closer to the more developed countries of the European Union. At the same time Hungary, our country is not an island in the middle of the ocean, far from everything, from all economic processes. The decline in global economic momentum is a sign of dangers that we too have to deal with. The economic protection action plan is intended to address international money market developments and real economic risks and to protect the results of the Hungarian economy. In addition to the weakening of the external environment, this can ensure, in the long term, that economic growth is maintained by more than 2 percentage points above the European Union's average, which we hope will continue to be around 4 percent in the following year. In addition to protecting the economy, preserving Hungarian national values and our sovereignty is also a priority for our country to remain a strong, safe, family-friendly country in all respects. The government will therefore continue to take strong action against Europe's threat of immigration, its inherent threat of terrorism and its adverse consequences on public security. [[8.20]] Dear House, The protection of Hungarian families, the strengthening of the economy and the maintenance of security cannot be built on debt. We saw what it was like, especially the period led by the prime ministers of Gyurcsány and Bajnai, when the country became indebted and close to bankruptcy; not to mention the tragedies it caused for families. Since 2010, we have targeted a growth path that aims to reduce these risks at the same time, while at the same time creating the source of a continuous expansion that will enable us to achieve our national goals. Overall, HUF 2200 billion will be available to support families in 2020 to implement the action plan for family protection. It serves about HUF 500 billion in the framework of the economic protection action plan to stimulate business growth and increase our credit opportunities. In addition, we have also sought to continue the tax reduction policy, so that taxes will continue to decrease in line with the debate that started yesterday, and we want to simplify the tax system. Above all, I would like to stress that we will continue to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people with an increasing source. Dear House, The Hungarian economy has been on a dynamic growth path in recent years, with an average growth rate of almost 4 percent. The gross domestic product increased by nearly 5 percent last year, by 4.9 percent, and by 5.3 percent in the first quarter of this year. I note quietly that with this increase, we are at the top of the European Union ranking, and the growth of the Hungarian economy was three and a half times higher than the average growth of the European Union. We have been able to achieve this through the process of slowing down in our external markets, while also striving not only to increase the economy and create more jobs, and to increase wages and salaries continuously, but also to reduce the level of public debt, and not to fuel this economic growth, as in the second half of the 2000s. I think that the results in the area of employment speak for themselves. 3.7 million people worked in 2010, today nearly 4.5 million people work in Hungary, which has not been seen since the change of regime. More than 820,000 new jobs in 2010 have been achieved over the last eight years. In addition, the structure of employment has been positive, as new jobs have not been created in the public sector, but in the domestic competition sector, with a significant reduction in the number of public workers. At the same time, the unemployment rate has also fallen to a low level of 3.5 percent, the fourth most favourable figure of the 28 Member States in the European Union. Hungary has therefore put the emphasis on employment after 2010, and this economic policy has brought results. It is also due to the fact that in November 2016 we were able to agree with the social partners, employers and employees that we will be implementing a reduction programme for wage increases and taxes in the next six years, starting from 2016. This was the result of what you have already supported in the last few days, a further 2 percentage points reduction in the rate of the social contribution tax. The minimum wage has increased, the minimum wage has been guaranteed, and the employer's burden has been significantly reduced. This has also given employers scope to ensure higher wage growth. Average earnings increased by more than 11 percent in 2018 compared to the previous year. This means that, when converted, people's real income in the Hungarian economy increased by an extra month in basically over a year. As a result of the new reduction in contributions under the economic protection action plan in July, this year and next year, the Hungarian economy will be characterised by an increase in wages above the EU average. In addition, the 9 percent corporate tax rate, which is the lowest in the EU, contributed significantly to achieving private economic and fiscal development worth more than HUF 10 700 billion in 2018 in Hungary. I would just like to point out here that this investment activity, which has increased by 16 percent over a year, has resulted in our country's investment rate jumping above 25 percent, which is the second highest figure in the EU ranking. This investment rate could be even higher in 2019 and 2020. The strengthening of the economy is therefore tangible for everyone and can be experienced everyday, as by improving the income situation of households more money can remain with families, which is also reflected in the unbroken growth of retail sales for six years. I would also like to refer here, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that, since 1990, there has not been a period in the Hungarian economy where retail sales have increased continuously for six years, i.e. retail consumption. Dear House, What are our basic figures, what is the budget presented? Based on Hungary's internal resources and strong capacity to expand, and bearing in mind the challenges of the international environment, next year we will continue to expect a dynamic growth of around 4 per cent, with a moderate inflation of 2.8 per cent, with a lower 1 per cent deficit than ever before, and we will propose a safety reserve of 1 per cent of gross domestic product to prevent external risks. Our actions to achieve fiscal balance have been effective in recent years, as since 2012, the deficit has been reached in a stable manner below 3 per cent. Last year, the deficit in the government sector was more favourable than planned, representing 2.2 percent of gross domestic product. At the same time, we want to continue to reduce public debt, with the EU methodology debt indicator falling to 66 per cent next year. I would just like to remind you that when we started government work in 2010, this was still 83 percent. We are moving in the opposite direction to the average practice of the European Union, we have significantly reduced the level of public debt and we are acting in accordance with our adopted Fundamental Law when we are submitting a budget to you that intends to continue to reduce this level. In addition to reducing the debt ratio, it is a more important objective than ever to resolve the public debt as far as possible not from external sources, i.e. from foreign sources, but from domestic funding. The achievement of deficit and debt reduction and the achievement of government objectives are guaranteed by the continuation of a disciplined financial policy based on foresight and conservative planning principles. As in recent years, the budget for 2020 has been made with a zero operating budget, i.e. the cost of public services will continue to be financed by the State from its operating revenues. In addition, every year we spend more on supporting families, improving education, modernising health care, raising the standard of living for pensioners, maintaining security and public finances. I would like to point out and stress that, compared to 2019, all priority areas will have more resources to manage next year. I repeat: each area has more resources to manage next year. This means that by HUF 224 billion for the support of families, by HUF 48 billion for education, by HUF 184 billion for health care, by HUF 136 billion for pensions, by HUF 238 billion for public sector workers, and by HUF 174 billion for defence and police expenditure, it will be paid for pensions this year. If I compare these amounts to 2010, what I can tell you is that we are spending more than HUF 1300 billion on supporting families today, with HUF 600 billion on education, HUF 700 billion on health care, EUR 830 billion on pensions, EUR 1500 billion on wages and nearly HUF 800 billion on defence spending. So it is clear that in recent years the government has been able to achieve such a complex economic policy, when we have been able to create economic growth without debt and without privatisation, create more jobs, and spend more on our national policy goals. [[8.30]] Dear House, The share of budgetary resources for strengthening Hungarian families, raising children and encouraging children is also exemplary in Europe. This is supported by the fact that we already have the highest rate of family support in Hungary compared to the gross national product, and that from 2020 all measures of the family protection action plan will be in place, so next year we will spend more resources on families raising children than ever before. Among the measures, significant resources are available for baby shower support, for the expansion of family home-building preferential loans, for the taking over of mortgage loans for multiple children, for the car shopping programme, for nursery development and construction, for the introduction of grandparents' children and for the tax exemption for mothers with four children. In addition, a number of other measures will help to strengthen families, such as the fact that, thanks to a favourable 15 per cent personal income tax rate and a unique family tax system, some one million families can now manage with more money. In recognition of the efforts of home care providers, the cost of care and care for children at home continues to increase. The free textbook supply will be complete from 2020-21 by giving the textbooks free of charge to students of 10-12th and 13-16th years of vocational education and training. From 2020 onwards, the student normative amount will increase to HUF 166 600 per year, which will contribute to reducing the financial burden of students and their parents on higher education studies. The government's goal remains to make sure that every family can have their own home. To this end, we will also devote more resources to the continuation of the home creation programme next year, which will reach about HUF 300 billion. All these measures will help to strengthen families and will have a positive impact on the development of population development that can significantly support Hungary's economic expansion. It is not, therefore, that we are sacrificing something from growth to reverse the population processes, but we believe that the two are closely linked, because the next generations will have to create the economic growth that we are now shaping the framework and conditions of. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already said, in order to maintain a dynamic economic growth of around 4 per cent, it is necessary to further strengthen the processes enabling domestic expansion while maintaining the stability of the budget. This is why next year's budget, in addition to supporting families, is also about protecting our economic achievements and continuing tax reductions. In this context, I would like to mention a few points in the Economic Protection Action Plan. On the one hand, the government's aim is to gradually reduce taxes on labour and, as a further step, the rate of social contribution tax will be reduced from 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent as of 1 July 2019. It is incomprehensible to me what the Group of Dialogue and a DK representative found unsupportable in this regard, and I think that this will help significantly the opportunities of Hungarian businesses and employers. In this way we will leave only HUF 144 billion in 2019 and an additional HUF 156 billion in 2020 in businesses in order to invest, develop or raise wages and pay. As part of government measures to help small businesses, we will further reduce the so-called kiva from 13 to 12 percent next year. The tax reduction affects 40,000 Hungarian small businesses and supports the operation of these businesses with HUF 5 billion. In order to simplify the tax system, we will abolish the simplified business tax next year, as the two small business taxes, the kata and the kiva offer a fully more favourable form of taxation to small businesses. It is clear that this has been increasingly chosen by small domestic businesses in recent years. Companies above HUF 100 million annual turnover will no longer have to comply with the tax prepayment obligation next year, so the income tax on corporate tax, innovation tax and energy suppliers will not have to pay a tax advance at the end of December, but will have to pay the tax only on the May tax return. This means, moreover, that the previous year's tax that should be paid by the central budget can be used by the company for another five months. The government decided to suspend the advertising tax in order to facilitate further expansion of the market, and since tourism is one of the priority sectors of the Hungarian economy, the VAT rate for commercial accommodation services is reduced from 18% to 5%. I think that this will also be a very serious and significant help for the development of the tourism sector in the coming years. From 1 January 2020 VAT refund aid will be available in small municipalities. If a new residential building is built, renovated or expanded, this amount can be recovered from this purchase or construction up to HUF 5 million. We support the expansion of the construction of working hostels, this autumn not only the municipalities, but also private businesses, will have the opportunity to benefit from support for the construction or renovation of working accommodation. In the spirit of investment incentives, we will reduce the possibility of using development tax incentives from HUF 500 million to HUF 50 million for small businesses and HUF 100 million for medium-sized enterprises. We are increasing the various guarantee funds. We will increase Garantiqa Credit Guarantee Zrt. by HUF 10 billion. Its capital is already included in the proposed budget law, and by HUF 5 billion we intend to serve the more efficient development of the agricultural sector by increasing the capital of the Agricultural Business Credit Guarantee Foundation. In addition, the agricultural area will benefit from an additional budget of HUF 17 billion per year for irrigation purposes from 2020 to exploit the potential of the Hungarian agriculture more efficiently and safely. Hungary must indeed aim to achieve a level of irrigation at least as high as the average of the European Union, and to do so it must also be developed and invested in this area. In order to achieve as much and more research as possible in Hungary, a surplus of HUF 32 billion will guarantee the support of R &amp; D in the following year, which will therefore rise above HUF 150 billion. Last but not least, we launched a new form of Hungarian government debt between economic protection measures two weeks ago, which helped significantly, will help save families looking for a safe and tax-free form. I very much hope that the purchase of this type of sovereign debt by the public will continue in the coming weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to draw attention, in addition to the economic protection action plan, to some additional measures that are included in this budget. In order to increase the attractiveness of the countryside, to reduce territorial disparities and improve the quality of life of people living in small settlements, the Hungarian village programme will continue to improve the accessibility of small settlements with a population of less than five thousand people, so we will continue to renovate roads and transport facilities in these settlements. The implementation of the Modern Cities programme will also continue to strengthen the modernisation and competitiveness of rural cities, increasing their cultural attractiveness and improving the quality of life of Hungarian people living in rural areas. This programme was launched in 2015, and around HUF 4000 billion will be developed under this programme in 23 county-righted cities, and we will continue to do so the following year. Within the framework of the infrastructure development programme, we continue to drive motorways to the border, and the connection of regional centres to the motorway network, with various road development programmes and proposals for regional development elements. [[8.40]] The total length of the Hungarian motorway network, which is now about 1,400 kilometers, is growing over 2,000 kilometres in the period ahead. The Hungarian highways will provide European-wide access to the international network for motorists and carriers. In addition to EU co-financed railway projects, in addition to the development of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, certain railway investments will continue from domestic budgetary sources, such as the development of the suburban transport of Békéscsaba, Hódmezővásárhely, Szeged, Szabadka region, the railway renovations of the Central Danube region, and the railway developments related to the construction of the north-western economic zone in Debrecen are also included in this draft. In order to achieve full employment, the government's objective is to mobilise labour reserves in order, inter alia, to allow young people, those who are currently inactive or those who are employed by the public to enter or return to the world of work. This is supported by the renewal of the vocational training system and the development of a methodology for foreign language education. As you know, the government has decided that, as part of the foreign language strategy, from 2019-2020, it will be possible to send students from the 9th and 11th grade to the target language countries for two weeks in a school framework, through a group or individual application. An important factor in competitive labour market supply is the well-trained and recognised workforce, with the necessary total annual resources being provided by 2020. In addition, our priority is to ensure that wages continue to grow so that anyone who wants and can can work and is able to live more and more safely from their work. Dear House, In summary, Hungary's internal growth engines are stable, the ability of the economy to expand can only be at risk of changing the external environment. Looking ahead, there are indications, for example, of the slowing down of the German economy, the problems surrounding the Brexit or the commercial conflicts, that a period of expansion at a lower pace than before could be introduced by our foreign trade partners, which could limit the scope of the Hungarian economy. In preparation for external risks, we want to further strengthen the balance of the budget compared to what is set out in the Convergence Programme. If there is a difficult period, the rule is generally that we focus primarily on the balance factors and, in a secondary way, on growth, so that the next year's budget has been presented by designing the document with a budget deficit target of less than 1 percent than the previously planned 1.5 percent EU methodology, and, as I mentioned to you, the amount of reserves has been increased, and this reserve represents 1 percent of gross domestic product. Strengthening a cautious and forward-looking fiscal approach in the 2020 budget will create a predictable environment and a stable fiscal framework in Hungary, which will guarantee the progress of the Hungarian people, increasing support for families, the development of businesses and, among other things, the continuation of wage increases after 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, The recognition of the work of public service workers has been strengthened in recent years by a number of measures, which will continue to be highlighted in the budget for the next year. Since 2012, the government has managed the public sector's salary situation along the lines of careers and wage measures taking into account sectoral specificities. In doing so, comprehensive career schemes have been introduced, for example, in the case of teachers, law and defence professionals, government officials, and other wage measures such as a multi-stage increase in health care or a salary increase for law enforcement workers. In addition to previous wage increases in the health sector, a new multi-stage wage development will be achieved, resulting in an average increase of 72 percent in the wages of health professionals compared to their 2018 wages by 2022. In the framework of the wage development programme, women in charge of the protection services owned and maintained by the state, local government, church or religious organisation will receive equal pay from mid-year onwards for health professionals. The resources are also available for increasing the salaries of law enforcement and administrative staff, for the financial recognition of crèches' human resources and for the next phase of the increase in salaries under the Law on Government Administration. In addition, the budget also provides opportunities for other wage arrangements in other sectors in the numerically and in the rules system of the budget in 2020. Let me also say a few words about the situation of pensioners and pensions. In recent years, we have followed a practice that pensioners also benefit from the development of domestic economic processes, as they have worked for this country for decades and raised their children. The work of the current pensioners has contributed to the success of active workers, which must be acknowledged. In 2010, the Cabinet promised to protect the real value of pensions year after year. As a result, between 2010 and 2018, pensions increased by nearly 30 percent, to be exact by 29.8 percent, and their purchasing power improved by more than 10 percent due to persistently low inflation. Therefore, the law will continue to guarantee an inflation-following pension increase next year, and pensioners, as in recent years, can expect a pension premium thanks to the performance of the economy. In addition, we also ensure that the income of those who work in addition to the pension is exempt from social contributions and contributions. We think that, yes, they should also be given the opportunity to reconnect to the world of work. Dear House, For the EU budget cycle 2014-2020, the government has set a targeted and effective use of EU funds for our country. In line with this, the majority of EU grants will be closed by 2018, and the funds announced will be covered by grant contracts. From 2019 onwards, the focus will be on the implementation of these projects and the use of the advances on the ground. This will also help to increase the progress of drawing on EU funds in 2020. We plan to pay nearly HUF 1700 billion through structural, rural development and fisheries, as well as other EU funds, and to receive approximately HUF 1500 billion of EU funding. In addition to grants, funds that can be relocated several times and provide secure financing for business development in the long term will play a greater role next year than in the previous financial period. A few sentences about local authorities. From 2013 onwards, the local government's system of tasks and funding has been fundamentally renewed, and the new task-based funding has demonstrated its effectiveness in recent years. Central budgetary resources adapted to the tasks of local authorities will continue to be fully available next year. These are mainly the basis for supporting families at local level and for increasing the standard of living of the population. As the wage increase and tax reduction agreement also affects municipalities, the government provides budgetary support for the payment of increased wages. In order to increase the salary resulting from increases in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the budget law proposal for 2020 contains the necessary coverage. The amount of subsidies granted to municipalities for each of their sectoral tasks increased by more than HUF 23 billion. I have already said that it is essential for economic growth to support rural settlements and to develop more and more locally. [[8.50]] In the spirit of this, the government will continue to support the development of nursery, mini-cradle, children's meals, dining rooms and other municipal tasks in 2020. As a mandatory task of the municipalities, thanks to the expansion of operational and development resources, the food supply has brought the desired results, and more and more well-equipped kitchens with advanced infrastructure provide healthy nutrition for children. By financing children's meals from daycare to school, we ensure quality catering and that every child in need gets warm food at least once a day, even during school holidays. There is still a significant source of resources for the operation of the nursery system, and support for the family nursery continues to increase. As a result, a new flexible system will support the operation of these, and we consider it important for local authorities operating in small settlements to increase their wages. This type of support was available in 2019 under a tendering framework, which will also be included in 2020, and the lower-level authorities can decide on the salary of civil servants under predictable conditions. All in all, municipalities can manage more than HUF 2950 billion in the following year without a loan source, with a central budget of more than HUF 735 billion. Dear House, I have two short things to mention, one of which concerns the Pension Insurance Fund. The budget for this has also been submitted to the relevant document. The budget is in balance. The European Union, the European Commission, concluded that the Hungarian pension system is stable and works on a predictable basis. So we think that maintaining this extra burden for the budget does not mean that it is a equilibrium fund. At the Health Insurance Fund, we are also looking at a balance between revenue and expenditure. This fund shall ensure that invalidity, rehabilitation benefits, infant care and childcare premiums and expenditure on sick money are implemented. The most important of the benefits in kind is the curative-preventive care. We will also provide additional resources for this in the following year, worth HUF 155.6 billion, and, as I referred to earlier, as a continuation of health wage measures, this fund will include additional resources to cover 8 percent of health professionals and women's health workers as of July 2019 as well as new wage developments in January and November 2020. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The budget presented, I think, takes into account the opportunities and objectives that we have. As has been the case in recent years, we are striving to get closer to these goals. The most important of these is the support of families for the following year, and we have presented this material in line with the points of the Family Protection Action Plan. I would therefore ask you to discuss these points and to support them. I would also like to thank the Budget Council for its opinion, which will always help to make the document more credible and even more valid, and thank it for the audit of the State Audit Office, as it has also helped us to bring forward a more sound bill for you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-19-4	Thank you, Minister of Finance, Mihály Varga. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, in a 30-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2019-06-19-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Lords of the President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Minister, Secretary of State Lords and Ladies! In the life of the State Audit Office, the opinion of the draft central budget law for 2020 has a special feature. Since 1990, this is the 30th annual draft budget law, on which the State Court of Auditors has given its opinion in compliance with its statutory obligations. It is clear from this that this is one of the basic tasks of the State Audit Office. According to the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly, as the main representative of Hungary, accepts the central budget and approves its implementation. The State Audit Office, as the main body for financial and economic control of Parliament, gives an opinion to the legislature on the regularity of the drafting of the draft law on the central budget, on the merits and on the justification of the planned appropriations, on the eligibility of revenue appropriations, on the adequacy of expenditure appropriations, and on the application of the government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. We have fulfilled this legal obligation with our opinion delivered to the President of Parliament last Friday, which can be found before you and is also available on the Internet. I also meet this statutory requirement with my expose at the beginning of the budget debate. It is important to stress that in its opinion the SAO declares a specific moment and state of budgetary planning. With this, the SAO agrees that Parliament can adopt a budget law meeting the requirements of the legislation. Dear House, The Fundamental Law also requires Hungary to apply the principle of balanced, transparent and sustainable fiscal management. Overall, I can say that the establishment and content of the draft law on the central budget for 2020 comply with these standards and contribute to the implementation of the constitutional management principles laid down in the Fundamental Law. In its opinion, the State Audit Office concluded that the planning organisations complied with the legal requirements when preparing the draft law on the central budget for 2020. The structure and content of the draft budget law are in line with the legal requirements and therefore the requirement for transparent budgetary management is met. Next year's bill is well-founded, helping to ensure that future economic growth is not compromised by public finances' management processes. The bill complies with the government debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law and the requirements laid down in the Finance Act on Hungary's economic stability. The 2020 budget law proposal contributes to the sustainable whitening of the Hungarian economy and predictable, stable economic processes, and provides an appropriate framework for achieving social policy objectives. The revenue and expenditure estimates of the 2020 Budget Act are well-founded. For the year 2020, the draft direct revenue appropriations are HUF 1366.4 billion, or 13.7 percent higher than the 2019 allocation. In particular, income from taxes related to consumption will increase by 17.1 percent, by 14 percent, and by 11.2 percent for the general public. In terms of sustainability of the management of the central budget, such as the achievement of direct revenue, the measures envisaged for economic growth and the whitening of economic processes are crucial. These measures contribute to simplifying the tax administration, improving the transparency of the tax system and strengthening enforcement. [[9.00]] It is therefore essential to continue the process of bleaching in a consistent manner. The transformation of the tax system plays a crucial role in the development of stability in today's economy. In addition to achieving planned economic growth, the deficit and the requirements for the development of public debt are met with one exception. In our opinion, again, we draw attention to the fact that the planned structural deficit of 1.1 percent exceeds by 0.1 percentage points the medium-term budgetary deficit target set out in the convergence programme for 19-23. However, this does not pose a risk to the enforceability of the budget; it is not accompanied by a statutory sanction. The total amount of central reserve appropriations is HUF 488 billion, of which the budget of the National Defence Fund is HUF 378 billion, representing nearly 0.8 percent of GDP. The risks identified can be addressed through budgetary measures and the planned, extremely robust reserves provide adequate safeguards to address the budgetary risks that arise. On the basis of the 65.5 per cent of the government debt ratio planned for the end of 2020, the downward trend in debt-to-GDP ratio continues. This will help ensure that future economic growth is not compromised by public finances' management processes. In order to comply with the sovereign debt rule, there is still a significant implicit reserve of 2-2,4 per cent of real GDP growth, which will ensure compliance with the sovereign debt rule even in the event of a possible slowdown in economic growth. In our opinion, we drew attention to the need to provide documentary support for appropriations opened from above, because this lack poses a risk in the implementation of the budget, which is why it is necessary to strengthen responsible budgetary management in this respect. In our opinion, we also pointed out that it is essential for the safe management of the financing risks of sovereign debt management that there is a sufficient amount of so-called liquid resources available to meet current obligations. In determining the level of liquidity, it is appropriate to take into account the impact of an unforeseen, potential negative financial shock. To this end, liquidity management at the national economy level is also necessary to ensure that at least three times as much of the liabilities incurred are available in the form of liquid assets. In the context of liquidity management, sovereign debt financing can be further expanded according to the direction started, mainly based on domestic sources, in order to eliminate foreign exchange risk. EU support for 2020 is expected to impose a lower funding burden on the central budget compared to previous years, which has a positive impact on the development of the cash flow deficit. The reimbursement by the European Commission of EU assistance in previous years, advanced by the central budget, will improve both the liquidity of the central budget and the level of the annual cash flow deficit. By 2020, the central budget will cover investments of an amount of HUF 2000 billion in the context of the domestic stockpiling budget. Investments in economic development, infrastructure and public support directly and indirectly in other areas of investment programmes support economic growth in 2020. Dear Parliament, The Court of Auditors has also taken into account macroeconomic analyses published previously for the opinion published prior to the parliamentary discussion of the bill, and we have drawn conclusions on the basis of the State Audit Office and our analysis and previous audit experience. With the current rapid economic growth, budget revenues continue to increase, creating an opportunity to prepare for a future period of smaller economic expansion. One of the tools for this is the provision of a central change management reserve that enables the management and avoidance of negative effects on the financial markets due to future unexpected situations and external circumstances. In essence, the use of this technique can improve the flexibility of budgetary management. Maintenance and liquidity management instruments at central budget level are relevant at the level of each chapter and also for budgetary bodies. These instruments include, inter alia, central management of the accumulated, payable account debt in each area and perhaps the use of wage-mass management. In many areas of public finances, the value of liquid resources in an institutional sphere is reduced to a critical level. The disclosure of payment problems to an economic operator typically results in an increase in incurred expenditure due to the elimination of late payment interest or the financing of other legal procedures. In cases where the institution or institutional circle is unable to resolve the liquidity problem within the limits of its own budget, thereby impairing the assessment of the solvency of the State in the business community, it is appropriate to use a central liquidity management fund guaranteeing the resolution of such cases. The rules for establishing this liquidity management fund should be designed in such a way that budgetary institutions do not consider financing as an additional source but develop and apply methods and instruments to support their management balance. The importance of wage mass management is shown by the fact that, on the basis of the bill, staff benefits account for around 23,4 percent of public finances, or more than HUF 4100 billion, on the basis of the bill. The essence of wage-mass management is that the scope of the tasks performed by the institution and the resulting wage costs will be assessed. The institution must comply with this framework in its management and, if it is able to carry out its tasks within this framework, may use part of the savings to meet other needs such as renovation and own maintenance. This method requires the head of the budgetary body to carry out more extensive management tasks than at present, while savings in wage costs can be achieved through the use of wage mass management as a special institutional motivation system. Dear House, It is necessary to adapt to changes not only in the case of revenue but also in the case of expenditure. Due to the changed economic and social environment, it is appropriate to consider the use and content of the budgetary instruments used so far. Above all, the resources available must be used efficiently, although the establishment of regular conditions is still a problem for many today. But this includes, for example, tools to tackle unemployment. The supply-oriented labour market a few years ago has typically become demand-oriented. Consequently, support for job search and job creation should focus on disadvantaged areas and disadvantaged social groups. It should also be noted that the increase in nominal value of debt-related expenditure due to the increase in market yields is a key future change for the central budget. Planning debt-related expenditure and revenue is also an important factor for ensuring liquidity in the central budget. Based on the planned debt run-off and the related financing plan, approximately HUF 1400-1600 billion is required to provide sufficient liquidity. The collection of these liquid resources is possible from retail savings using favourable interest-rate sovereign debt schemes in order to maintain a further reduction in the gross external debt ratio and to avoid an increase in foreign exchange risk. This additional resource will increase debt-related expenditure, but it will also encourage households that have not yet thought of saving in addition to the increase in their disposable income. [[9.10]] In addition to the steps taken to achieve fiscal balance, it is also important to take effective steps to achieve sustainable economic growth. In addition to continuing developments, it is at least as important to adapt government measures to the economic cycle and to prepare for a period with slower growth. Future investment projects can be implemented in a sustainable way by the central budget if the budget deficit reduction objectives that have been started in recent years are implemented and managed according to the concept of the saver state. This means that the State uses the revenue surplus generated on the basis of the long-term fiscal policy objectives as a first reserve and then uses the resources according to environmental characteristics. The economic basis for this is that, during a period of higher economic growth, further stimulation of economic processes does not create or cause further growth, but problems of imbalances. In the case of investments, it is equally clear that the active state's strong investment activity is, in particular, a means of promoting sustainable growth in the event of economic growth slowing down. In a more intensive phase of economic growth, such as the current period, the preparation and planning of future investment programmes, as well as the development of a related financing methodology, will typically be a task. This is why it is important to have a so-called investment preparatory fund in the budget for the next period. In general, preparation and planning tasks require a long period of time, in particular for complex programmes and investments in economic development. The reduction in the advance of EU funding and the preparation of development programmes provide a positive basis for the creation of funding sources. This includes, for example, the fact that a State-owned economic entity is responsible for the preparation of an investment project and has sufficient capital to carry out the investment. Following the closure of the programming cycle in 2020, monitoring will focus on EU support. This will ensure that the development programmes started are implemented with the content of the grant contracts. This function is also highlighted by the fact that in 2018 there was a majority of advance payments for EU programmes, which was also a kind of advance reserve. EU grants also have a significant impact on the liquidity situation of the central budget. The implementation of the planned revenue will have a positive impact on the development of the cash flow deficit. In addition, the last year of the programming cycle draws attention to the fact that the continued decline in planned EU spending and, at the same time, the return on expenditure advanced in previous years represent a specific reserve for the central budget. The conscious use of this reserve is essential for the liquidity of the central budget and for supporting the economic growth of later years. In this respect, expenditure related to EU grants reimbursed by the European Commission could serve different budgetary policy objectives during a period of less economic growth than the current one, thus giving the budget a wide margin to address future challenges. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the context of budgetary planning and in the context of a healthy economic structure, I would like to draw attention to another national context, which is essentially made up of three factors, i.e. three income owners. The first is the State, whose budget balance is ideal if the planned revenue covers the expected expenditure. In the planning of the central budget for 2020, the government calculated a budget of almost zero, with a budget deficit of 1 per cent, but with the same reserve. A stable and well-managed fiscal policy is important for competitiveness. In this context, measures to reduce tax avoidance are decisive. In addition to economic growth, our country has a government policy aimed at whitening the economy, these two are supportive of each other and make it sustainable to whiten the economy. It is also important to emphasise that the aim of economic policy is to increase employment, which is the centre of the whole economic policy, to improve competitiveness, to ensure balanced economic growth, and to reduce public debt and to keep the budget deficit below 3 per cent. To this end, the government has made significant structural changes in recent years, including in the area of the tax system. With the whitening of the economy, tax revenues have been permanently increased without the need to increase tax rates or even reduce certain rates. This has increased the competitiveness of businesses and left more income in the business and family sectors. I am convinced that sustainable whitening must continue, i.e. that the state must also collect taxes from those who have so far withdrawn themselves from public burdens in whole or in part, and that the resulting additional income can again reduce tax rates. I believe that there is scope for further tax reduction measures. Before such a measure, it is necessary to examine to what extent a reduction in the public burden supports economic growth. It is appropriate to reduce taxes that are conducive to the competitiveness of the country on the one hand and therefore, in my view, the reduction of the key to the work is obvious. At the same time, it is important that budget expenditure growth is limited, so tax reductions can only be of the magnitude to which revenue increases cover. The second income-owner group is enterprises. From a macroeconomic and fiscal point of view, it is ideal for companies and private companies to develop, develop and invest. To do so, they need capital, to which the State may, on the one hand, grant various subsidies or discounts and, on the other hand, use financial institutions' loans, complementing the return of their own profits to the economy. This means that from a national economy point of view, it is particularly beneficial for the corporate sector to also make profitable, efficiency-enhancing investments and developments through bank loans, which will increase the dynamics of national economy processes and improve the country's competitiveness. And then let's talk about the third factor, the population as an income owner. In addition to increasing budgetary stability and the competitiveness of the corporate sector, it is of the utmost importance that Hungarian society be formed by families that are consciously farming, saving and financially strong. I am therefore convinced that the state should use all means to strengthen the financial security and management awareness of families. One of the important tools for this is to invest a large part of the population's savings in sovereign debt with domestic emissions, while other options are available. The OECD's 2010, 2015 and 2018 surveys on financial awareness should be looked at and examined. According to last year's research, despite a highly favourable macroeconomic environment, the subjective financial stability of households has not changed. In fact, they would be able to cover income losses in the same way, a little over half and 54 percent of households would be able to stay on the surface beyond a month if, for some reason, their regular income were to disappear. Remember, in 2010, more than half of those surveyed had no savings, 52 percent had no savings. A positive change is the fact that much fewer people are struggling with daily living problems than in 2010 or 2015, but only a few are putting the extra income aside for more difficult days. [[9.20]] In addition to a favourable environment, a significant increase in real wages, the population has become less forward-looking in terms of finances, according to surveys. Overall, the changes are essentially due to a significant positive change in employment and income indicators observed in recent years. In addition, the growing desire to borrow could have led to changes, such as long-term goals from credit to shorter-term objectives. Trends show that the level of personal loans related to purchases is also increasing, especially for those with lower incomes, which will mean a significant saving obligation for them when the loan is taken out, with a higher premium of up to 20 per cent during the repayment period. This draws attention to the fact that there is no doubt a positive trend for the population, such as a significant increase in real wages, a dynamic increase in public consumption, a widening of financial and material room for manoeuvre, risks and risks. I therefore believe that, in the current situation, the government should consider taking concrete incentives to increase motivation, in addition to its own fiscal reserve, to promote public savings. I would like to stress very strongly that all workers are free to provide for their taxed income, so that such measures cannot be made compulsory. At the same time, the state can give various incentives to emphasise on a voluntary basis the willingness of the Hungarian population to save further, while reducing credit-refunding constraints, thereby increasing the financial value-resistant security of Hungarian families. It's in everyone's best interest. The vulnerability of the country as a whole has been decisively influenced by the position of these three income owners, which is why I have dealt with in more detail, because today, because of the state of the economy and the stable and planned state of the budget, these issues can be put to the fore in the future. Dear Parliament, In summary, the draft law on the central budget for 2020 meets both EU and domestic legal requirements and provides financial coverage for the planned social policy objectives, while there are massive reserves available for unforeseen risks. I wish you a meaningful professional debate for the next few days, and I hope that the opinion of the Court of Auditors will contribute to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-19-6	Thank you very much, President László Domokos. I now give the floor to President Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, in a 30-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2019-06-19-7	Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for the opportunity, on behalf of the Fiscal Council, for the seventh time, to fulfil my obligation to summarise orally and justify the Council's opinion on the draft budget law for 2020. The Council gave a substantive response to its opinion on the draft bill for the government, to which I will comment later. The three-member body, on the basis of its mandate in the Fundamental Law, examined the draft budget and its macroeconomic background in its unity again, analysed its revenue and expenditure in terms of balance requirements, compliance with the sovereign debt rule and did not make any allocation policy ratings. The Council concluded that the appropriations in the draft budget for 2020 were essentially in line with the preliminary fact data for 2018 and the expected data for 2019 and the macroeconomic and public finances processes planned for 2020. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that a correct diagnosis can only be made with regard to the history. The Budget Council also assessed the implementation of the 2018 Budget Act and the expected performances for 2019. I would like to say quite briefly about all of this. As a result of changing global economic conditions and developments in domestic conditions, fiscal and monetary policy measures, the Hungarian economy was able to significantly improve its performance in 2018, in addition to remaining risks. The increase of 4.9 percent exceeded not only the value of previous years, but also government and analyst expectations. Overall, the revenues of the central sub-scheme of general government were more favourable than both the statutory appropriations and the previous year. The determining rate of general sales tax, excise duty, personal income tax, corporate tax, mainly due to the rise in wages and the introduction of even more investment and consumption and, not least, online invoicing, has resulted in technical measures which have increased significantly beyond the appropriations and base year fact data. Overall, expenditure has also become higher than appropriations, which have been underpinned by additional revenue, giving the main priorities to finance the six-year wage agreement, the home creation programme and the advance on EU payments. As a result, in 2018 the cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem was substantially lower than in 2017 and only slightly worse than the deficit target set out in the Finance Act. The deficit of the government sector in terms of profit is better than that laid down in the 2018 Budget Act, with a figure of 2.2 per cent. At the same time, the so-called structural deficit resulting from the elimination of one-off items exceeded 1.5 per cent of the medium-term budgetary objective under the Stability Act this year. The Council considers that the government has taken measures to control the indebtedness of public finances. These measures were effective, so the additional financing requirement of the EU advances was reduced by the need to transfer to the government sector until 30 September 2018 the EU advances paid to them in excess of the previously unused threshold to their accounts at the Hungarian Treasury and the rules on future EU advance payments were tightened. In addition to significant economic growth, they also contributed to a 2.6 percentage point improvement in the public debt-to-GDP ratio and 70,8 percent at the end of 2018. All these figures are interesting because they met the criteria set out in the Stability Act. It is also positive that the foreign exchange ratio has decreased to 20 per cent of the central debt and the internal financing has increased. This has reduced the country's external vulnerability. Dear House, The Council analysed macroeconomic public finances for 2019 as a direct base of the 2020 budget. On this basis, the government expects an economic expansion of around 4 per cent in 2019. This is supported by data on time-related performance. [[9.30]] GDP growth in the first quarter reached the highest historical value compared to the same period of the previous year, with GDP growth above 5 per cent. Public consumption and investment performance remain the driving force behind this. The volume of production for industry increased dynamically while for construction. The increase in demand for the latter, let us not deny, is also inevitable for state-generated construction investments to increase prices. However, the growth rate is expected to decrease and should be prepared due to capacity constraints and more moderate external demand. According to the first quarter figures of the budget, the general government's cash flow deficit without municipalities is only HUF 150 billion, significantly lower compared to the same periods in recent years and to the annual appropriations. This positive result has a crucial role to play, both in the reduction of tax revenues and in the reduction of expenditure. In the first quarter, almost 15 percent more revenue was received than during the same period of the previous year. The Union's revenue was also substantially higher. The expenditure was 1.7 percent lower than in the previous year. This is mainly linked to a reduction in EU spending. However, expenditure on budgetary bodies and pensions has been better achieved. It is beneficial that in the first quarter, the overall government deficit in the first quarter showed a surplus. I don't remember anything like that. According to the Council, the deficit target of 1.8 per cent in 2019, calculated according to the EU methodology, is expected to be maintained, guaranteeing a further reduction in the government debt ratio. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Turning to the 2020 budget in more detail, there is no fundamental difference between the draft proposed by the Council and the bill submitted by the government. The bill also validated the Council's call, taking into account the negative impact of the economic protection action plan announced by the financial government on revenue and expenditure during its opinion. Thus, our opinion also applies to the bill before you, which is to be negotiated. The Fiscal Council examined the elements of the macro-economic path for the third time when assessing the merits of the 2020 budget. According to the Council's assessment, the foundations of the Hungarian economy are stable and its vulnerability has decreased. Once again, the budget builds on a dynamic growth of 4 percent. However, this requires an increase in sources of growth, in particular the consumption volume of households. Government measures to promote strong labour demand and employment continue to increase the number of people employed in the competitive sector while remaining unchanged in the public sector. The number of unemployed will be even less. Building on the macro-economic path, wage growth will be dynamic, gross and net average earnings will continue to rise by 8.3 percent. A 2.8 percent inflation was taken into account for the further recovery of consumption. The budget also builds on an increase in gross fixed capital formation. This is able to maintain the investment rate well above 25 per cent as a result of the ongoing and continuing developments from domestic and EU sources. At the same time, the Council sees signs of a lower growth and expansion period in the world economy than before. There is a high risk that this may also significantly reduce the scope and opportunities of the Hungarian economy in foreign trade relations. In order to avoid this and to reduce negative consequences, additional measures to improve competitiveness, productivity and efficiency are needed. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Within the revenue planned for 2020, the tax revenue is considered to be determined by three basic processes. On the one hand, the tax reform implemented after 2010, which shifted the focus of the tax system towards consumption taxes in order to stimulate economic growth and employment. On the other hand, the economic activity that has lasted for several years and, in particular, the rise in household income and consumption. These have resulted in a significant increase in revenue. Thirdly, the proportion of taxes actually collected has been significantly improved by targeted measures such as the connection of cash registers to the tax office, the use of the EKAER system to control the carriage of goods by road, and the introduction of online invoicing, as well as administrative reductions. It should be noted that the rate of Hungarian tax evasion can now claim the results under European practice. On this basis, the 2020 budget also includes a dynamic increase in tax revenues. However, the Council considered it necessary, in addition to the macroeconomic path on which the plan was based, to take further economic bleach measures by the government in order to meet the revenue trends. The Council considered the tax and contribution measures contained in the new economic protection action plan announced by the financial government, as well as the additional expenditure, to be correct during the time the draft bill was drafted, but requested that the government present to Parliament their impact. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to stressing that it still does not classify the distribution policy in the budget, the Fiscal Council considers that the modest increase in budget expenditure in 2020 compared to the actual and expected performance of the previous two years is in line with the objectives of Hungary's Convergence Programme 2019-2023. According to this, public finances are constantly shrinking and spending relative to GDP, the redistribution rate is less than 45 per cent next year compared to 50 per cent in pre-2016 years. The planned reduction of the budget deficit is essentially on the expenditure side. The central subsystem will continue to devote more than four fifths of its expenditure to operational purposes divided into three large groups, while the remainder will be spent on nearly the same proportion of domestic-funded accumulation expenses, EU funding and improvements. Budget expenditure, which is shrinking in its proportions, also makes it possible to achieve a number of important social and economic objectives. As a key objective, the family protection action plan introduced in 2019 and further extended in 2020 could be implemented, including support for young people's start-ups and home-buildings, recognition of the efforts of large families, helping to strike a balance between family life and work. The development programme for day care for young children could continue, which could help to bring mothers back to the labour market after having children and to coordinate family and workplace tasks. It is positive that achieving a population turnout will support the sustained growth of the economy and ultimately the long-term sustainability of public finances. [[9.40]] However, it should be noted here that the Council identified under-planning for the so-called baby interest rate subsidy, as the expenditure is expected to exceed the appropriations in the event of the planned lending in the bill. The budget includes an increase in pensions by inflation, i.e. the preservation of the real value of pensions, in accordance with legal requirements. The payment of the pension premium is also included in the appropriation, which will take place in the event of economic growth above 3.5 per cent. The amount of defence expenditure may continue to increase and be closer to NATO level. Maintaining a daily sense of security, tackling and preventing the threat of terrorism is decisive. The draft has an additional source of economic protection and competitiveness measures, and this has a major impact on vocational training, employment and tax administration. In addition, however, the Council drew attention to the need for further competitiveness measures to ensure that we catch up with the EU average, which is where we have a great deal of hyates. The budget will provide conditions for continuing wage increases for employees of the public sector in 2012 taking into account sectoral specificities. Strengthening and maintaining fiscal security, avoiding external risks and financing of extraordinary expenditure can well be used by the establishment in the budget of a reserve of a much higher percentage of GDP than that experienced in previous years in the National Defence Fund and in the appropriations for extraordinary government measures. Government investments rose to a high level compared to the historical average in 2018-2019, reducing GDP-related expenditure in the coming years is a return to the long-term average, which can help to break down capacity constraints and not deny the withholding of free-flowing prices in the construction sector. It is possible to create a modern city programme to enhance the modernisation and competitiveness of the countryside, while at the same time improving the living standards of people living in the countryside, to drive motorways to the border, to connect regional centres to the motorway network, and to improve the accessibility of small settlements with a population of less than 5 thousand under the Hungarian village programme. The appropriations for the EU development budget will be less than the appropriations for the previous year by 2020, as by the end of 2019 the vast majority of EU funds will be paid to final users and beneficiaries as advances. In recent years, the lack of cash flow in the central budget has increased the amount of the advance paid to municipalities and companies. If the reimbursement of advances from the Union budget is met, this will significantly improve the cash flow balance, given that the related internal expenditure has already been incurred. This ensures that the objective of achieving a debt-to-GDP ratio of around 60 per cent in the year 2022 can become a realistic reality. Substantial EU grants will continue to serve general and energy and infocommunication development for businesses, R &amp; D and innovation, priority infrastructure and tourism investments and employment growth in 2020. EU funds for the development of the health and social sector and for social inclusion to a significant extent, we believe, can help to catch up with the falling layers. Dear Parliament, The Council welcomed the 1 percent deficit target in the budget, calculated according to the EU methodology. This is far better than the Maastricht criterion and the requirement laid down in the Stability Act. We can follow the European trend that the countries where stability is a reality, there is the reality of either the 1 per cent budget or the zero budget or the positive budget. Hungary is very close to this, given that it has a reserve of 1 percent, and we hope that this will be used in such a way that it will serve our good, and then we will be able to start our next year's tasks with a budget of virtually zero. The current convergence programme also reduces the deficit more strongly than in this year. In the Council's view, this is in line with the fact that, at the time of economic activity, it is justified to reduce public expenditure, as there is no need to heat the economy by budgetary means. The strong approach towards the zero budget path is in line, and I would like to stress that the Council's approach in previous opinions is also in line. It is beneficial that the primary balance will be positive in the ninth year of 2020 and the overall balance will only become negative due to interest expenditure. With regard to the availability of the deficit target set, the Council identified the risks identified when the revenue appropriations could be made available, but these can be offset by the already mentioned well-updated security reserves. The practice that the operational part balance in the central subsystem, divided into three parts, is zero in the third year, and that the cash flow deficit can only arise in the stockpiling and the EU budget continues. The planned deficit without so-called structural one-off revenues is only 1.1 percent, but still slightly higher than the one-percent medium-term budgetary objective recommended by the Commission for the period 2020-2022. The Council considered that achieving the target would not require significant measures to be considered, taking into account the scope of the budget. The general government's cash flow deficit is also low, with a GDP ratio of 0.9 per cent, a third of which is foreseen for 2019. While the cash flow deficit in 2019 is much larger than the EU methodology, the trend will be reversed by 2020 and the cash flow deficit may become smaller. This is mainly due to the fact that, for the EU programmes, the advance payments already mentioned are below aid from the EU. As I said, this could speed up the approximation of the requirement of the sovereign debt ratio laid down in the Fundamental Law, 50% of GDP and compliance with EU standards. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, the Council concluded that the planned nominal increase in government debt is in line with the projected cash flow deficit of the central budget, but that the pace of growth is significantly below the planned rate of nominal growth. As a result, the government debt-to-GDP ratio will be reduced to such an extent that, under the Stability Act, the sovereign debt ratio is expected to decrease from 68.6 percent to 65.5 percent, fulfilling the requirement of the Fundamental Law. It will therefore be available, and I would stress once again that in the coming years the public debt will fall below 60 per cent, meeting the European Union's so-called Maastricht criteria. In addition, the bill also complies with the EU requirement that, on average, over three years, the proportion of the debt ratio above 60 per cent should decrease by one twenty per cent. In addition, the Council also welcomes the further decline in the foreign exchange ratio within the central budget debt, below 15 per cent, contributing significantly to the reduction of the country's external vulnerability. [[9.50]] Dear Parliament, The Council's findings can be summarised as a continuing reflection of financial stability after 2010 of the draft budget law for 2020. The macroeconomic indicators taken into account in the planning are more optimistic than those in the different projections. The latter is not surprising, since it can be seen that the forecasts are repeated upward within the year. Although all planning carries risks, so does 2020 but there is no obvious danger due to the high level of maintenance. As I have already said, the Government has given a substantive response to the opinion of the Fiscal Council. Please allow me to discuss that very briefly. The government has envisaged further competitiveness measures for the economic protection action plan, which can help maintain the economic growth rate in the years following 2020. We have also received a similar response to the points that I have mentioned here, which relate to the reduction of risks and to the increase in revenue appropriations; measures that are expected to be reflected in the role of the National Tax and Customs Office in its bleaching steps and in the dissemination of electronic payment systems. The Council's request to provide the missing data was fully fulfilled by the government, thus presenting the substance of these figures. With regard to the opinion of the KT that, according to the draft budget law, the structural deficit in 2020 is so close to the 1 per cent of the medium-term budgetary objective that it should be considered to bring it into line, the government considered that this could be achieved in the short term. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Before finishing and thanking you, allow me to make a personal comment! For many decades, serving as a financial man at home and abroad, I have found that where there is stability, there is scope for economic and social policy, figuratively speaking, there is everything. This seems to be taking place in the home budget over a decade of its careers. I am honoured that in career building processes, the Fiscal Council and myself can be there together with all those responsible for this work. In this approach, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, the Secretary of State, and their colleagues, for their help in the Council's work and for our requests for information. I would like to thank the staff of the State Audit Office, the Hungarian National Bank, the secretariat of the Council, the analysts invited, and experts of certain economic institutions for supporting the broad foundation of the Council's opinion through independent, alternative macroeconomic and public finance model calculations and sensitivity studies. Dear Parliament, Thanking you for your attention, I wish you good work in discussing the proposal of the 2020 Budget Act and the related amendments.
u2019-06-19-8	Thank you very much, President Árpád Kovács. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. The Vice-Presidents of the Parliament are expected to participate in the debate during the negotiation of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2020. The Members of the Vice-Presidents shall, in the event of their opposition, be allowed to hold the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the meeting being chaired by Mr János Latorcai, Mr István Jakab, Mr István Hiller and Vice-President Tamás Sneider, as well as by me during the further discussion of the presentation. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my proposal. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-19-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear President, Lords of the State Secretary, fellow Members, The 2020 budget before us, both in terms of its objectives and in view of its main pillars, meets in all respects the expectations of the Fidesz faction and the objectives that our faction has set itself for next year, taking into account both its framework figures and its internal structure. I would therefore like to thank Mr Secretary of State, Minister, the apparatus for the victim-made work that has been done in drawing up the budget, and we would particularly like to thank him for all the proposals, or most of the proposals that the faction has drawn up during the preparation of the budget, which have been included in the budget. We think that the main goal that we have set ourselves is to further strengthen Hungarian families, which this budget can serve in an extraordinary way. The Minister pointed out in his exposé the extent to which support for families has changed since 2010. By 2020, we will be able to achieve what we may not have thought ourselves, even honestly, ten years ago, that we can spend HUF 2228 billion on supporting Hungarian families. In Europe, there is the highest level of family support in terms of GDP, and I think that both our faction and the government can respond adequately to the perhaps biggest challenge of today's European policy, namely that migration can be the solution for Europe's medium-term and long-term maintenance and strengthening, or for our own people, based on our own nation, by increasing the desire to have children, by strengthening the support of families, to meet these challenges that are not only for Europe but also for Hungary in these years. I think the answer to these questions given by the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, which gives the majority of the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament, is the authentic answers that offer Hungary the best possible solution in the long term, 20-30-50 and 100 years, but also to the European Union. We see that every year, although the voice of our critics is constantly decreasing, because they are also decreasing, because they see the results that we have achieved not only in the area of family support, in the area of growth of the Hungarian economy, but also in the area of catching up and rise of Hungarian society; nevertheless, every time, every budget year, we receive criticisms. Yesterday, the Hungarian Parliament held a debate on tax laws. I may have heard the first speech in the last 8-10 years when an opposition representative not only brought unfounded criticisms and routine attacks on tax laws, but we have finally found common points in it that we can both acknowledge and which we can see as a point of rejection. I very much hope that this 2020 budget is also a bill in which we can find the links that we can see as a set of common interests of Hungarian society, regardless of the party, and in which we can think together and find solutions that offer Hungary, the Hungarian people, the best possible solution to these issues. I do not believe that, given the details of the family protection action plan, those forms of support, either the further strengthening of the CSOK credit facility offering access to home, or the extent of the tax incentives made in small settlements to keep the population there, young people, or the question of the tax exemption of mothers who have four children and fostered them for the rest of their lives, or the new element of the family protection action plan to support large families' access to cars, I do not think that we can find a common denominator in these points. [[10.00]] I do not think that we can set these measures as a goal that the entire Hungarian Parliament can support in agreement and in harmony. With tax reduction measures in the framework of the Economic Protection Action Plan, the aim of maintaining the outstanding performance of the Hungarian economy is to respond to the challenges that the Minister has spoken about, the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Fiscal Council, namely the expected recession, the decline that will affect not only the European economy but also the world economy over the next year or years, well, in these years we can maintain the growth path of the Hungarian economy. I think that an ambitious goal is the 4-percent economic growth that the government has set its target for 2020 but if we look back on ourselves, especially the outstanding result of nearly 5 per cent of the economic growth of the last year or the 5.3 per cent growth rate of this year's I. quarter, which, I note, is the highest growth value among the EU Member States, I think that the 2020 targets are fully justified and can be fully achieved even if unexpected national or global economic events occur. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I think that the 1-percent budget deficit that the government has planned also deserves all recognition, not only at home but also at international level, and the 1-percent reserve that it represents for unexpected expenditure, which, although shown in the 2019 budget, gives very important security and stability to budgetary management, since there are no unexpected events to which the government cannot react immediately, well, the 1-percent reserve next year, if the events really happen as planned and the unexpected expenditure does not happen, then indeed, as the President of the Fiscal Council said, it is not excluded that we can talk fully about a zero budget. It is very commendable, and I would like to thank the Government very much for keeping to his previous promise in relation to the 2020 budget that the state will show restraint in terms of expenditure. Practically as we can calculate the budget of the 19th budget, the budget of the 2020 budget with a zero-salable state operation, in Hungarian as much as it has revenue for the state, it also spends as much money on its own operation. This is also an outstanding result and performance, last year was the first year since the change of regime when the Hungarian government was able to achieve this, and I am very pleased that the ambitious plans in this area will not change for the future. I think that we can set an example for all areas, if we make our own farming, the state's farming as close as possible. I also agree with what has been said in the previous comments that we need to be the most considerate when we need to show the greatest restraint in budgetary expenditure when we are at the best time, when economic growth gives us the opportunity and the opportunity to significantly reduce the lack of public finances. I think that the 2022 objective of reducing the deficit of public finances to below 60% of GDP will further strengthen with the 2020 budget, and that the value recorded in the Hungarian Fundamental Law is that once we reach the level of below 60%, no government can ever increase the Hungarian budget again with a maximum of two-thirds of the support, with the amendment of the Fundamental Law above 60 percent. This is an extremely significant achievement not only for the predictability of the budget, not only for the development and growth of the Hungarian economy, but also for the whole Hungarian society, so thank you very much for the government's restraint in this area as well. On the two major elements of the budget, the Economic Protection Action Plan and the Family Protection Action Plan, the Minister spoke in detail, and on the other hand, my colleague Lajos Szűcs will talk later. Allow me to highlight a few details that are important both for economic growth and for society next year. The Fidesz Group welcomes the Government's efforts to further strengthen the work-based economy and achieve full employment in the 2020 budget. You may recall, fellow Members, who were sitting here in 2010, in this Chamber, that when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán presented the government's programme, he talked about creating a million new jobs over the next ten years and set a goal when we talked about a budget insolvent and a bankrupt state that we took over from the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments. [[Gergely Harvesto: You tried to bankrupt him!]] However, the Hungarian government has set the ambitious goal of achieving full employment within ten years. Well, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the fact that the unemployment rate in Hungary has fallen to 3.5 percent, that has not been seen since the regime changed, that employment is at the highest possible level, because we have created 830 thousand new jobs in the last not quite nine years. And I think that with those steps, with those measures, on the one hand, in terms of reducing labour costs, we will be able to bring a further 2 percent, from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent, and with those economic development measures, with the support of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, and by encouraging new investments in Hungary, we will have a realistic chance of achieving full employment in Hungary by 2020. The unique wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016 concluded between the government, the employer's side and the employee side created a peace and peace between employers, employees and the government in Hungary, which provides extremely strong support for each economic development and every job creation effort. It is perhaps not a coincidence that Hungary is the second most sought-after investment area in the EU and the tenth most sought-after investment area in the world. Hungary has managed to achieve, with a predictable tax and budgetary policy and an ambitious economic development programme, that today not only European countries, but all countries in the world that are looking for a safe investment site, a location where tax conditions are predictable, where an otherwise year-on-year reduction in tax burden is expected, and where in the field of employment the government is taking measures to ensure a skilled and otherwise competitive workforce for its own investment, well, ladies and gentlemen, this is the basis for Hungary to be among the ten most effective and most effective countries in the world in terms of encouraging investment and attracting investors to Hungary. I think that this is a small detail in the budget, as part of the foreign language strategy, is the measure that will allow all students from the 2019-2020 academic year to spend two weeks, whether in a social, joint or individual form, in the target language countries, to increase the usefulness and quality of their foreign language skills in a meaningful and effective way. I consider it very important to take measures to further reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, which help to increase the added value and productivity of domestic companies in strengthening the digitalisation of the SME sector, and so, by further strengthening the quality and availability of electronic administration in general, we can do that Hungarian citizens, Hungarian voters, are also much more comfortable, much easier and much easier to manage their own affairs and things from home. Allow a short detour, ladies and gentlemen, on the use of EU funds. The possibility of a scheduled and rapid draw-down of the available HUF 12,000 billion EU funds will significantly increase the competitiveness of the economy in the following year as well. The government provides an open budgetary framework from above in order to enable these calls to go above 100 per cent. You may remember, ladies and gentlemen, that in the previous fiscal and development cycle it was Hungary, Hungary was one of the top students, which was able to draw these funds to the greatest extent. [[10.10]] Let us recall that Romania lost nearly 30 percent of EU funding because it could not be used effectively, and many European Union countries have come from Central and Eastern Europe without knowing that they were able to use these resources with only 10-15 percent loss. Well, the government's forward-thinking and wise policy in this area, leaving an open framework for it and speeding up investment rates with advance calls, is once again an opportunity to use these resources at 100% in the next seven years. Ladies and Gentlemen, So if we look at the main figures of the budget, its structure, its main objectives and priorities, then we must say that this budget is not only the budget of Hungarian families, but also the budget of Hungarian businesses, but it will improve the lives of all Hungarian people, it will increase the standard of living of all Hungarians in the following year, and this may not be a coincidence, because Hungary is the first for us. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the other lead speaker of Fidesz, Congressman Lajos Szűcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-19-11	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Secretary of State Women! Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to describe the 2020 budget in three words, as we are used to: predictable, consistent and enforceable. These three words, which have not come up for the first time, are certainly important and indicate exactly how we think about the 2020 budget. This is not the first time, but we will all say that one of the government's most important aims is to protect families and strengthen families. As much as we are talking about the smallest creative unit in society, its educational-forming power is not enough to emphasize. Therefore, it is not surprising that next year's budget is also about strengthening the situation of families. According to the bill before us, next year there will be more than HUF 2200 billion to support Hungarian families. In parentheses, I note that in 2010 we were talking about a total of HUF 960 billion. Following the 2010 government change, this is already the tenth budget planned by the civilian government. A budget is usually about the future, but it is worth looking back at the budget proposals for the last ten years. In this context, I had two thoughts. If I remember correctly, there have been positive measures for families in each of the last ten years' budgets, whether in the form of a tax reduction or a new grant. I believe that these are the government steps that we can be most proud of. On the other hand, in recent years, I remember the siren sounds that have always predicted... [[Gergely Harvestó: Siren sounds.]] Siren. It's not a siren. Siren, dear congressman. [[Gergely Harvesto: Was it a pun?]] That's right. [[Gergely Harvesto: Sorry.]] ...they have always predicted the untenableness of the budget submitted, its unfoundedness, and criticized its excessive treasury optimism. Most of the time, these opinions came from opposition actors, but also from the star economists that the media picked up. Unfortunately, the only thing that has been missing in recent years is the apology that has always been missing when it has been found that the facts have not supported the claims of these siren sounds in recent years. For almost ten years now, the scenario is that the opposition believes that the budget numbers are not good, and then the opposite is revealed. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister of Finance, Mr Secretary of State, for his work, for the fiscal discipline that the Ministry has shown for many years, and, of course, the workers, colleagues, for the accurate, responsible work they do every day. As the performance of the Hungarian economy includes the work of all Hungarian people, the design and analysis work of the staff of the Ministry of Finance was also essential to achieving it. When we talk about getting out of the overdeficit procedure, paying back the IMF loan, meeting the Maastricht criteria, or a credit rating rating agency in the country, then the work of all Hungarian people and the work of the Ministry of Finance colleagues are included in this; thank you. After this little detour, some more important figures from next year's budget. As I mentioned earlier, out of the HUF 2200 billion allocated to support families, HUF 200 billion is specifically related to the Family Protection Action Plan. And through baby shower support, young people will be able to take up more than HUF 400 billion as an interest-free loan that they may not even have to pay back if they are to have children. In the next year's budget, almost HUF 300 billion will be allocated to home creation through the family home creation discount, the associated expansion of the support loan or even mortgage lending. Mothers with four children will also be exempt from income tax next year. In order to help return to the world of work, 40 billion HUF will be available for nursery development purposes. At the same time, I think it is important to highlight the fact that, while 76 percent of family allowances were subject-law in 2010 and only 24 percent were tied to work, work-based subsidies are now overpowered. This also shows the difference between current government and left-wing family policy. When there is only 3.5 percent unemployment in the country, I think this is absolutely justified and enjoys the support of the Hungarian people. Another important pillar of the 2020 budget is to strengthen the protection of the Hungarian economy. This is because there is an increasing number of uncertainties in the world, here it is enough to think only of the trade war between the United States and China, of deteriorating foreign market conditions or of the Brexit. At present, the Hungarian economy is one of the most dynamically growing economies in Europe, it is so deliberately and we intend to maintain it. To this end, it is important to prepare for even negative scenarios. This is the purpose of the recently announced economic protection action plan, which provides a greater financial margin for Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and SMEs. As one of the first steps of the Economic Protection Action Plan, the social contribution will be reduced by 2 percentage points from 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent from 1 July 2019. This measure leaves HUF 144 billion in 2019 and HUF 156 billion in 2020. The quantity of kiva shall be reduced from 13 per cent to 12 per cent from 1 January 2020. With this form of taxation, about 40,000 companies are currently taxed. Tax simplification is also used to reduce the number of taxes, thus removing the Eva from the tax system. Another good news is that the government also initiated the abolition of the tax advance, so in the future, five months later than before, businesses can settle their tax obligations together with the May tax return. In order to further develop the tourism sector, VAT on accommodation services will be reduced from 18% to 5 percent. In small settlements, the VAT will be refunded up to five million forints to encourage housing and housing investments. In order to reduce labour shortages, it will be possible in the future to support private businesses in building workers' shelters. An additional investment incentive is that by the end of 2022, the government will continue to reduce the amount under which businesses can receive development tax relief, which could affect approximately 6500-7000 companies in Hungary. [[10.20]] In order to further increase lending, the guarantee scheme will also be strengthened. All Garantiqa Hungarica , both the Agricultural Business Credit Guarantee Foundation will receive a significant capital increase. Ladies and gentlemen, After family and work, security is perhaps one of the most important things in people's lives. Unfortunately, immigration in the European Union has remained the most important political issue. Unfortunately, there is still no consensus at EU level that the EU's external borders must be strictly protected, but rather focused on border management. As we have always represented, migration is not an opportunity for us, but a cultural, economic and public security risk. It is therefore welcome that the resources for public security and defence will continue to increase in the next year's budget. Compared to 2010, we already spend more than twice as much on our own security. It is important to point out that all priority areas in the 2020 budget can have more resources than in the previous year. Compared to 2010, there will be HUF 1261 billion in support of families, HUF 840 billion in pensions, HUF 1455 billion in public finances, and HUF 723 billion in defence and police expenditure. We have come a long way over the past nine years, but there is still plenty of work to be done. Achieving full employment is an important goal. We want everyone who wants and knows to work in Hungary, and do not punish this with taxes, as they could get used to in the period before 2010. The number of people employed is already close to 4.5 million, while unemployment is 3.5 percent. As a matter of interest, I note that this data is exactly the same as that of the United States of America. In addition, the economic results achieved have been achieved by Hungary meeting the so-called Maastricht criteria for the budget deficit target for seven years now, and the Hungarian economy is now in a position to meet these criteria, as the budget deficit planned for next year is expected to be 1 percent in total. It has been said several times that we can evaluate this as a zero budget, although I think our indicators are better than this, because the savings put aside and the budget's spending of more than HUF 2000 billion show that this budget is suffractive. It is reassuring that public debt has been declining since 2010, but, as my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, has said, the Fundamental Law is also a framework for this; we would like this to be fulfilled in any case in the following year. This financial security and sustainability is also served by increasing the appropriations for the National Defence Fund and extraordinary government measures. The two reserves will total HUF 488 billion, corresponding to 1 percent of the total national product. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It was good to hear the opinions of the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council compared to the period before 2010, because in this we heard that budget planning met the legal requirements, and it was certainly good to hear that it assessed much less uncertainty than in recent years, either the SAO or the Fiscal Council, in this report. It was also nice to hear that for the fifth time the government has submitted the budget to Parliament in the middle of the year. I would like to note here that the soundness and sustainability of the budget do not depend on the date of submission, but on the expertise and quality work. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The current accounts have always opposed those who thought that in the spring we had little facts to plan the budget. I believe, as has been the case, that we can trust the expertise of the Ministry of Finance and its colleagues, and that we will therefore propose the 2020 budget presented by it to be adopted, because we believe that it will ensure economic growth in Hungary. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, in the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance, I would like to ask you from Fidesz to discuss it in the time frame as far as possible, to supplement it with its amendments and then to support the 2020 budget with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2019-06-19-13	Mr President, Dear House, It was quite embarrassing to listen to my pro-government fellows and professionals introduce how they see Hungary today, but it is quite astonishing how different realities we are experiencing, since, in view of the Hungarian madness, the positive mood of the production report and hurrahoptimism do not radiate to us at all. What we need to see is that when discussing the current budget, the government should explain its certificate in the possession of previous facts and figures. But how serious is this debate if we have been doing this for many years without a closing account that would put a certificate on the table about the implementation of previous budget plans? Depending on this, we could decide whether or not to spend it for the next period, by the time we allocate which funds, we will separate it. The fact is that the Fidesz lead speaker urged us to trust the experts of the Ministry of Finance, the minister, whose predictions really depend on what budget we will adopt for the coming years. In my opinion, it is absolutely subjective, unacceptable, because, my fellow Member, budget planning, financial planning is a profession, it is not an emotional genre, it cannot be based on similar subjects. I know excellent experts in government circles, excellent secretary of state, and I know people I wouldn't trust with a financial planning process, because once again, it's a profession. And what about the subject is that if you ask an average mortgage creditor how, let's say, the government's financial planning and EBRD pact affect the lives of everyday Hungarians, it is likely that he will say something quite different from a pro-government representative, so the meeting point will determine the position in many cases. Therefore, I am asking you not to base yourself on similar subjects, but on fact data, factual facts. We cannot do this, however, because not only do we not have a closed account of the previous budget period, but we are also walking around in the dark with regard to the expected data. And I'm really glad that there's no huge difference between what's expected and what's real, but it's starting to make it look like a government oracle. Let's talk facts. What are the fact circles that should be explained by such a certificate? On the one hand, the most important, demographic population indicators. Unfortunately, and I wish I didn't, for every indicator, this government can do worse than it did a year or two ago, and once again, I'm not against it, I'm not happy at all. On the other hand, we would like to learn more about the state of the Hungarian national economy, our own national economy. We haven't heard a damn thing about this, not a word. They came with GDP data, they practically came up with what economic processes within the territory of the Republic of Hungary are, how they can be planned. Typically, the performance of German, Western European car manufacturers and various assembly companies is debated when discussing GDP data. But I am pleased with the pro-government correctness, as they have said that EU funds are expected to amount to 12 000 billion, which is what they are building on the performance of the Hungarian economy. [[10.30]] So the umbilical cord syndrome, which unfortunately characterizes the Hungarian economy for decades, seems to calm down in certain areas, but overall it exists at systemic level, there it is, and the exposure of the Hungarian economy could not substantially decrease. I understand, let's say, the transformation of the structure of public debt, and I support that we are not exposed to foreign force fields, but I must say that, regardless of this, public debt is constantly increasing, and we may find some percentage indicators where there is a temporary decrease, and I am pleased to do so. Once again, I am not a backup fan, but the level of Hungarian public debt is constantly increasing when measured at the level of numbers. I have not heard from the Minister, the experts speaking, or the lead speakers about how to outgrow the public debt, how to remove this burden of a thousand billion per year, this ballast from Hungary at least in part, and if we could use only half of it as a development resource, we would experience an amazing rise. The situation of the Hungarian wage level must also be explained. Here, the level of wage increases praised by pro-government colleagues has been mentioned many times. I'm gonna have to argue again. Starting from a very low base, it is undisputed that Hungarian wages have increased, as they do in all European countries, as inflation is typical every year. The debate between us is that in a regional comparison or in a European comparison, this increase is either outstanding or acceptable, perhaps not enough. I say that starting from a low base, the percentage increase may seem high, but if we look at where Hungary is going with this, then we will get to the subject of our investigation. If we look at the data on hourly wages for 2018, in euro, Mr Secretary, we find that Hungarian average hourly wages amount to EUR 9.2. For the EU 28, this is enough for the 25th place. If we look at the poverty of workers, they will find Hungary in the second-to-last place. If we look at the increase in wages in the countries in the region, we can see that unfortunately, we have not reached outliers here either. And if we look at the financial situation of Hungarian households, we can see that the countries of the region have also gone by our side. In terms of GDP per capita, since accession, in more than ten years, I have been talking not only about your governance, but not entirely about it, but in Hungary the figure per capita has increased by 59 percent, which seems impressive. But if we look at all the other countries in the region, we find that this is the lowest development figure, with Poland 100 percent the same indicator. So if we extend the horizon a little bit, we can see that we have failed to achieve a breakthrough. I wish I had. The next factor, the fourth, which I think can explain the nature of a budget, is the social network situation, the social security situation. It's dissonant to me, I'm not saying it's repulsive, it's rather sad to hear the government's eulogy of family support, and otherwise, I support the points of the family support system... [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] Please press a button and do not explain it in such a way, because it is important things, and they must not be broken down to the level of political debate that you have had at your level. I would like to say that I support the elements of the family support system myself, but in the case of a government that has allowed more than ten thousand evictions to take place in Hungary over three years, at least it is dissonant, at least strange to talk about them. Mr. Secretary. You must declare whether or not to maintain the pacts with the EBRD. It's a budget issue. The eviction of thousands of Hungarian families may depend on this. These families must then be kept alive by social transfers, their daily needs must be cared for, they must not be pushed to the streets or to the side of the road or into the ditch. It's an item affecting the budget. I expect you to break the pact with the EBRD for the benefit of Hungarian families, which will also appear at the level of the budget as a profit of ten billion, a hundred billion in the long term. But at least let's have this debate. I feel that this is a legitimate basis for debate and a fair approach on our part. I would also like to say that, although we have mentioned that this new procedure, that we are discussing the budget sooner without knowing the approved accounts, does not, in my view, show any benefit, so there are no concrete benefits to this. But we can also see that, based on the areas examined, it is not an exaggeration to say that this is the budget of living the future, if we look at the fact that it favours certain social groups, and that this is indisputable, but leaves complete Hungarian social classes outside the circle. Let us talk about one, my fellow Members, a social group, the Hungarians who emigrated from coercion. What does this budget put on the table for them? What do you suggest? What vision does it create? What explanation does it give that the Hungarian future makes sense here and in this form, and it makes sense to return to the country? There is no message in this budget for them. I would like to say one thing, on which there will be once again a better proposal for amendment, a comprehensive rental building and home creation programme, which runs under the title "We are waiting" at our place. This would send a clear message to young Hungarians that it makes sense to return here, not to spend 15 or 20 years of their lives in very difficult conditions, saving money to reach and obtain an average-sized metropolitan or metropolitan apartment. After all, Minister of State, you also have to answer in budgetary planning whether or not the conditions for the retention of the social groups concerned in Hungary are appropriate. With regard to the average rent prices in Budapest above HUF 150,000, I expect a statement that you think this can be kept, managed by an average salary in Hungary, expected these young people to start a family and have as many children as possible under these conditions, or need support and assistance. I vote for the latter: under each heading, these young people should be put in a position with a rent-apartment construction programme, housing support system, save them at least ten years of very massive savings, on a very difficult course, in difficult circumstances to reach a home of their own. We also see that if we look at economic processes and look at them, the most important thing for me, which affects the Hungarian national economy, affects the wage level in the long term, the growth rate of labour productivity. I see that if the productivity processes in Hungary improve, this will lead to additional processes that can peak in wage growth in improving the situation of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as a multiplier effect. However, next year the growth rate of labour productivity will be lower than in previous years, based on planning, and will be 2.7 per cent. I believe that in the long term, this can undermine the dreams of the expansion of the economy. I am very pleased that if Hungarian GDP data are impressive, say, over 4 percent, I am also glad that this is mainly due to German car manufacturers and foreign interests, but I would be even more pleased to see how our own national economy, the performance of Hungarian companies, has evolved in the past period. We haven't asked you for rules N-2 in a long time, although that would be the real budget for planning. Therefore, given the specific figures of the financial cycle two years ago and one year ago, this budget would be suitable for comparison. That's not what I'm asking. I can see that you're counting only the data of the year you're planning. At the same time, it would certainly be nice to see how the movements of the Hungarian national economy are in relation to the companies of the foreign force fields operating here. During the investigation of investments, we not only see productivity figures as a little weaker than our interests would require, but also that large investments, typically over HUF 100 billion, are entirely backed by German car manufacturers, South Korean and American companies. The only exception we have is MOL, in which, of course, the Hungarian State has a minimum share, which appears to be a kind of burning torch on this map among the many beneficiary foreign companies. However, we can say that the company tax reduced to 9 percent typically does not favour Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but rather these companies, which achieve almost all of the large investments in Hungary. You wouldn't want anyone to think that the profit generated by such investments is useful in the Hungarian national economy, would you? You do not want to state, in a budget debate, that the benefits of these multi-enterprises are very high in the Hungarian economy, do you? After all, based on international investigations, we see that the top multi-companies, as we discussed yesterday's debate, share the same multi-companies under the same brand and with a range of activities in the Czech Republic with a total tax burden of over 19 per cent, in Hungary below 1 per cent. This, Mr. Secretary of State, does not depend on local or climatic conditions, but on the behaviour of the current government, how it treats these companies. Again, this is not just for you, because in the period 2002-10, the pampering of these multi-companies has actually peaked, in an unjustified way, I would add, because it is not certain that job creation and infrastructure subsidies will attract these companies. [[10.40]] But what I never thought about was that after 2010, you were able to speed up these processes, and instead of concluding them in strategic agreements, at least the declaration of intent to catch up on Hungarian wages would have been placed on the table, the fact is that instead you campaigned that Hungarian wages are sufficiently low and flexible in your view. I therefore find this attitude unacceptable, because even with the current productivity indicators, higher wage increases and wage increases would be possible, but I see that wages have typically increased in recent years where labour shortages have forced this. This was not the result of conscious government intervention, but of a market pressure that meant that more than half a million of our compatriots left this country and that the remaining ones had to be paid better in deficit areas. I wouldn't put this in the government certificate, let's say, in addition to the explanation of the exemplary or illustrious grade, but because of market conditions, I consider it a difficult situation, because many people, hundreds of thousands, do not live willingly outside their homeland, outside their country of birth, but under duress. As I mentioned, for example, the Netherlands' income is used to pay the remainder of their mortgage here. I would also like to say that, if we look at the budget, we can see that the expectations of corporate tax revenues do not make up one tenth, they represent exactly one-twelfth of the prices, so the consumption of Hungarian households and citizens, if I may say so badly and not in a very professional way, is being taxed by the Government of Hungary with an EU record-breaking VAT rate that I believe should be sent to the waste heap of history. This government should eliminate the 27 percent VAT. In the case of luxury yachts, we can argue about staying, so there they will see full openness on my part. This is not a faction point, but a private opinion, but I have to tell you: with the exception of luxury goods, 27 percent VAT is unacceptable. And if what is said about the favourable state of the Hungarian economy is only partly true, then it is incomprehensible why a 27-percent VAT on child-rearing articles should be maintained. I ask someone to answer me today, how to explain, when expressing the intention of a demographic turnaround, that the VAT content of child-rearing articles is 27 percent. What rational, reasonable explanation can there be? No, I can't, it's unacceptable. So send this 27 percent one more time to the trash heap of history. I would like to address two points very briefly with regard to the economic defence wording and the economic protection action plan. One is the reduction of the socho, which I support, by the way. It's not about government novum, it's about innovation, it's about the consequences of a six-year agreement, which unfortunately was implemented by this government after a financial year, but it's done. Yesterday, I did not receive an exhaustive answer regarding the fact that if we reduce the contributions on the employer's side, which I consider to be the right direction, and we make concessions in the areas of kiva, kata and other areas where the contribution is measurablely reduced by employees, then how will the sustainability of social security systems develop twenty to thirty years later; to put it simply: how will these people have a pension? It is irresponsible to talk only about the reduction that I otherwise support, but not to express on the other side what prospects our fellow countrymen can expect. Here there are many alternatives, you can also say that the government can say that these people will solve it as they retire, as they wish, or work until they die. I don't think that would be a very humane approach. They may also say that they will develop a supplementary form of social assistance or transfer in 20 or 30 years, and they will at least keep these people alive, but here comes the question of how they will, what they want to produce it from in an ageing society. So I feel that we can now come up with common solutions to these issues from such a historical perspective, but the fact that we do not say them is completely unacceptable. Finally, I would like to mention what several fellow Members from Fidesz have said, proudly saying that within the framework of the economic protection action plan, there will be a work-in-campus programme. I am amazed at this statement, because we know, not only on the basis of the data of the HCSO, but also on the basis of the SAO, that there are well over a hundred thousand so-called guest workers brought here from strangers working in Hungary at the moment, and that neither Minister of State nor the Prime Minister nor his ministers have ever carried out that survey, that they should, in my opinion, deny me, if not so, that in the sectors to which these workers are brought in mass, they really need their presence. After all, the decision of the authorities is based on the oral announcement of the large companies, the large companies in question indicate it orally, they are asked and they respond orally to the areas in which they feel a shortage of labour, but the fact is that this is not always the case. And when 3,000 Hungarian workers in the Far East are lifting up a plant, and here in Hungary 3,000 Far Eastern workers are building a plant with state support in Tiszaújváros or anywhere else, the question arises whether this is in line with the natural order of the world. In my view, no, and in addition, the mass presence of strangers in the labour market will undoubtedly break the wage level, the wage level which is not too high, and let us think of a lifelike example, Mr. Secretary: what happens if such a company is told that there is a mandatory overwork? Are you going to organize the incoming migrant protests, start demonstrations, form a union? Obviously, he won't. More importantly, crowd attraction can drag the Hungarian worker into a situation where it must contribute to further evisceration in order to preserve his job. So I see that these are very harmful processes. Working-in-campus construction, labour mobility would be acceptable for a young person in Szabolcs, who needs training, through a dormitory system, and if he thinks he can find his calculation elsewhere in the country, then I would say that this should be possible for him, but, in my opinion, contributing by mass imports of foreign labour to a future population exchange, population exchange, is unacceptable. What I would like to say is that there are some points in the demographic package that we have in common. I can support all of the points in the demographic package, by the way, and my problem is that these are very narrow points compared to the scope of the budget, and they can reach extremely few Hungarian families. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] I say to the Secretary of State, who once again intervenes in the words of his fellow Member, but never does it with the push of a button, but always with the words (Miklós Soltész intervenes.) The fact is that you promised more than a year ago that Hungarian mothers who give birth to at least three children, not four, could enjoy personal income tax exemption for the rest of their lives. The fact is, this was your promise, not my promise, not my standing up here in Parliament to make that promise. In fact, after a year, a hymn of glory is around the fact that mothers with four children are allowed to do so. If Mr Soltés, State Secretary, because his fellow Members missed not naming him; I respectfully examine what a broad social group this is, he will find that in the case of three children hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, he will find about 30-40,000 groups for four children. And if you look at how many of them are registered at jobs where they can be measured, say, above average salary, you will find that they are less than half of the number concerned. So they can benefit from a very narrow group, otherwise rightly and rightly, and I support this, but the scope of the budget would provide a much wider range of opportunities. Similarly, in terms of car shopping: the typical Hungarian life situation of large families is not that they buy a new vehicle for 8 or 9 million HUF, but rather that they can open their interest from their scarce resources to a used vehicle that meets the minimum technical parameters. So that's what I'd open this package for. And in terms of home creation, I've always said there's no rental program. From young Hungarians who collected the CSOK's share with the state's support for housing savings, so LTP, let's say they took this opportunity. So the reason why countless young Hungarians cannot enter the CSOK is because the state support for pre-saving, collecting a part of themselves, has been abolished by this government. What did you put in his place, please? It is possible for opposition representatives to have anything to do with why they are not apologizing for what kind of pro-state style this is... why they do not apologize if certain facts are not fulfilled as they are said. I just heard about this era, I didn't think I had to live in it, but I would like to tell you that in such cases you have no opportunity to respond: you have an obligation. State aid for the LTP system has been abolished. What have you put in his place? What do young Hungarians achieve who want to save money and, let's say, collect the necessary resources for the CSOK's part? I want a specific answer to everything. [[10.50]] I would also like to say that the CSOK can, yes, favor well above the average salary, and typically up from the upper middle class. But what about the Hungarians who have housing goals, want to have children, they also appear in the statistics of the desired children, but they are not able to have children in Hungary for financial and housing reasons? After all, the housing crisis is in the second place in terms of the causes of the non-birth of the desired children. And that could be changed, not just with a rental program, but with intelligent motivations. I would also like to say that, in many cases, the childbearing of these families is lagging behind because of the lack of everyday safety. So I would expect guarantees from this government in terms of the social safety net, and it would be possible to talk about the possibility of supporting the budget at all if we were not the more than ten thousand evicted countries in the last three years, the EBRD pact already mentioned would be terminated by the government, and would conclude a strategic contract with the Hungarian bank victims, the families concerned. I believe that what the government has not done in the last nine years can already be seen in demographic indicators for such a broad social group. I would like to emphasise once again that, despite its eligible points, I call the draft budget for living the future before us because it does not focus on complete Hungarian social classes, typically on the young Hungarians, the Hungarian taxpayers who would have housing goals, would have children, but under these circumstances they are not among the groups that this government favours, so that the survival of the future will be achieved in a net way. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-19-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out to Congressman that he has repeatedly informed his fellow Members that they will intervene. Congressman, you've been commenting on Congressman Lajos Szűcs all along. I think that role modeling is also decisive in this area. Thank you for your understanding, and please, if possible, keep the house rules. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Thank you for an impartial meeting.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-06-19-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State! The Jobbik, I see you're looking for your voice. Yesterday, Anita Carpathian, according to my assessment, spoke about tax laws in a realistic manner... [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: At least write down the names if you want to criticize me.]] I'm sorry, Anita Kőrösi spoke in a realistic manner, and expressed critical comments, but she basically spoke in the tone of those tax laws. Today, the other lead speaker of Jobbik came back and told us what we've been hearing from him for years. Society, your voters, will decide sooner or later who's right. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: This is a very professional argument!]] Because, of course, when we talk about the budget, we can talk about numbers, we can even talk about numbers, we can only evaluate them in many ways, and I accept that. We heard an evaluation yesterday, and we heard a different type of evaluation today. I said you were still looking for your true voice, but this is your lesson. When we are discussing a budget, we can actually only analyse budgetary processes. So we have to look at how this 2020 budget fits into the budget flow that we have already experienced over the past years. And then I will also comment on this line of thought, as Dániel Z. Kárpát said earlier, that we have been building the budget on air castles for five years, because in the middle of the year, we will accept the budget for the following year, when we do not yet have the closure of the previous year. I'd give him the truth if he could set one example in these five years, so that one of our numbers wouldn't have been fulfilled once. If you can tell me one thing, you may already be partly right, but in five years, you haven't had a single one of these. It is not, therefore, that these budgets are based on an air castle, which has been achieved for five years, even ten years, in all the main figures, and we can be sure that this will also be the case in 2020 in the budget that is now to be adopted. When I say to you that we need to analyse budgetary processes, I say that the only way to talk about the 2020 budget is to look at where we started in 2010. 2010 is a handhold because we have been planning the budget ever since, and before that, we inherited a kind of situation that we had to react to. You remember, fellow Members, the situation that this country went bankrupt in the autumn of 2008. You don't argue that on the other side. At that time, a very fast credit saved the country from a specific bankruptcy. The specific bankruptcy would have meant that the next day public servants would not be able to pay or there would be no pension payments. This was then avoided by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government with a quick loan, this drastic loan, which was then taken in to save the country from bankruptcy, has since been repaid by the Orbán governments. Obviously, the performance of the Hungarian economy is behind this, of course, the efforts of Hungarian taxpayers, the Hungarian people, to pay back this huge amount. At the time, it could be said that every single player in the public finances was in deep debt. The state was indebted to the neck, the companies were indebted to the neck, the municipalities were indebted to the neck, and unfortunately the families too. We could still talk about the situation of the families. Families were characterized by about one million families swimming in foreign exchange debt. This debt mass, this debt situation, obviously had to be dealt with, and by 2013 Hungarian economic policy, Hungarian fiscal policy, fulfilled this with various crisis management measures. Since then 2013 is a turning point in this budget flow. 2013 can be seen as a year when we have already been able to put the budget on track for growth. So until then, the problems of the past were basically addressed, and since then the country's economy, the country's budgetary situation, has been on a growth path. What we knew well in 2010 when we took over governance was that economic policy, the fiscal policy that you represented, could not continue at any level. Because, simplifying, he calculated that they lived on other people's money, taking advantage of the world economy's money at that time, taking out loans without necks, living from day to day, living on other people's money, but sooner or later, as with the socialists, not only in Hungary, but always happens, they run out of money, others eventually get tired of lending to us without necks, doubting that we can pay them back, tightening the brakes, shutting down the money taps, and coming to this particular bankruptcy situation. Well, I had to break it off. The Orbán government said that a work-based society must be built, that we must break up with the process of saying that, compared to the Czech Republic, the same country as us, I am talking about the conditions at that time, there is a million more people working there than in Hungary. Why can a neighbouring country do that, why can't we do that? Because in your mind at the time, it was that some of the society was being held on welfare, they were being comforted here and there with small amounts of money, and there will be something. At the time, we said Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's statement that we need to produce one million jobs in ten years. I didn't think we could either. I have been a member of the Budget Committee for 20 years, and I have seen many great sentences before, especially from socialist governments, nothing has ever been achieved, and I did not trust that we would be able to do so. But today, thank God, I can say that one million jobs have since become 800,000 jobs, and now 4.5 million people are working in this country. Obviously, this big turn of events has played a major role in the fact that today we can count on other economic positions, a different budgetary situation, in setting up a budget. The wages were where they were. You always talk carefully about wages, because I can say the increase in wages that I consider to be the result of the Hungarian economy, but you can always say a bigger number on the other side. Therefore, one is cautious here, but if you look at the realities, the only figure that Minister Varga said in his expo is that, compared to 10, the average salary increased by 11 percent, compared to 18, it basically means that an average Hungarian person received an extra 13 months. [[11.00]] What you took, the Hungarian economy gave back to the Hungarian people at this level. If I turn to the 2020 budget, as we are politicians, and not only economists who are speaking numbers, I must say, in the context of the 2020 budget, that the social vision of the Orbán government has continued since 2010. The key to this vision of social policy, the essence of it is the strengthening of families, the strengthening of the basic cell of society, the strengthening of the base cell that is being destroyed in every way by the processes in the world, the Hungarian economic policy and fiscal policy want to strengthen it. At a time when we strengthen families, I, as a Christian Democrat politician, say that this is a true Christian Democratic thinking. It is also a Christian Democratic idea that we are not building a budget on air castles. We plan carefully, we plan consciously, and we consistently implement what we have planned in the budget. We keep the deficit target, unlike before, that they never kept the deficit target. It's a shame to mention that the country knows that we've kept the deficit goal every year. Now I'll mention later that we're planning for 1 percent, we're planning a 1 percent deficit target. The Maastricht criterion requires us to keep the deficit target below 3 percent. We're already at 1 percent. But where did we start? I still remember those budgets, rethinking the period of the Gyurcsány government, Bajnai government, when the deficit target was above 8 percent. Today we're planning a 1 percent deficit target. These are huge results, and I say that when we evaluate the budgetary process, these figures can only be evaluated. In order to achieve our vision of social policy, which is to strengthen families, and not only for a year, but also for a long time, these processes that we are launching to strengthen families require more money each year. We can only achieve this if we keep the Hungarian economy in the state it is now in. And even if the global economy is difficult, if there is a slowdown in the world economy, if Germany is slowing down, if there are unpredictable processes for Europe due to Brexit in some way, we still need to be able to keep up with the growth that we have achieved in some way, or if I am to say it more modestly, the objective that the government also sets out to increase by 2 percent, if possible, than the average of the European Union. We'll be happier if we can keep up the growth rate of around 4 percent we've been producing in the last few years. It would be even nicer if the growth we produced in the first quarter was more than 5 percent, such growth figures could be considered. I know that in the short term it is not a reality to think about such a high growth, but perhaps we can set ourselves a realistic goal of raising the Hungarian economy by 2 percent above the EU average, because this would be a permanent catch-up to a more developed part of Europe, and every year those resources would be created for the Hungarian economy, not with borrowings, but with the economy's own resources to finance our vision of social policy in the long term. It makes sense to introduce a family policy support system if we can do this in the long term, and we want to do it in the long term in the budget. And to do that, we need a stable economy. This is what I am going to talk about, obviously the economic action plan thinking and the budgetary impact that we want to achieve so that we can maintain that relatively positive growth in Hungary and finance our goals. But in the background, there's also a question that we need to talk about, it's a matter of safety. We can have social policy visions, we can want the Hungarian economy to work if we can't create Hungary safely, then nothing will happen, so security is a key issue. We have not chosen the path that the other half of Europe would offer us: if demographic trends are unfavourable, then let foreigners in, even from other cultures. We say it doesn't work. We see that it doesn't work in Western Europe either. We don't want any of this. That is why we are building on encouraging, helping Hungarian families and encouraging children. When we say that the child is the most important thing for us, we want Europe to see us as a family-friendly country; it is even more important for its own citizens to judge Hungary as such. Therefore, since safety is valued in this respect, it must be planned safely, it must be designed in a more conservative way than we have done so far. I have already pointed out that 1 percent of the deficit target is targeted in the 2020 budget, and the large reserves so far have been further increased and 1 percent of GDP has also been set as a reserve. Within security, of course, we also understand public security, we also understand the strengthening of defence, the strengthening of the police, all the issues that create a safe Hungary for foreign capital to come here, want to invest, to continue to be the tenth most popular investment destination in the world, and the rest, and the rest. If I just list the main figures, Minister, he did what the budget is built on, and I told Dániel Z. Carpathian that these main figures have always been fulfilled for ten years, why not in 2020 - : we are talking about a growth rate of 4 per cent, an inflation target of 2.8 per cent, a deficit of 1 per cent, which I have often mentioned, and a reserve of 1 per cent. To talk about the most important issue of the budget, too, some of the issues that are the core of our budget are the social policy goal, which is to support families. After consulting with the families, a family protection action plan was created, and the 2020 budget was put into numbers, putting into law the political goal set out in the action plan according to the expectations of the Hungarian families, which is now virtually reflected in the 2020 budget. There will be a very important change in the personal income tax law, and I think it is important that mothers with four children will enjoy tax exemptions for the rest of their lives in the future. This means a loss of HUF 22 billion to the budget, but that is the savings for large families with many children. I'm talking about the budget year 2020. Then baby shower support is only listed as an extension of a family home creation discount, a second child mortgage reduction, and a HUF 2.5 million car purchase allowance for large families, which is already mentioned by others. All these are covered by the 2020 budget. If I want to say a large number of what we spend on family support in total, this figure in the 2020 budget is more than 2200 billion. Yesterday, in terms of the current budget, by yesterday, the Hungarian government spent the most on family support in proportion to GDP. This increases by more than HUF 200 billion in a year. That is why I said that this is a system that we have launched, which requires more and more money over the years, and we can only produce it from the growing scale and system of the economy. Here comes the economic protection action plan, which the government is bringing to life because we want to preserve the economic situation that we have managed to achieve. Especially compared to 2010, this is a very bright situation, so after the legacy of socialist governments, the Hungarian economy is in a relatively favourable position. But in order to preserve this, economic policy measures are also needed. We have obviously talked about these yesterday in the debate on tax laws, since it is basically the tax law that underpins the revenue side of the budget. [[11.10]] In short, the most important measures here are: a reduction of 2 percentage points in the current budget means 144 billion savings for businesses, with 156 billion savings for businesses in 2020. A 1 percentage point reduction in the Kiva tax on small businesses is also included in the budget, from 13 to 12 per cent of the tax. The ad tax will be temporarily terminated. We put the VAT on tourism from the highest tax rate into the 5% rate of favourable taxation. Small settlements. This is a bit of a response to the suggestion of the betterman, who brings up the rental program every time. We expect Dániel Z. Kárpát and others in the small-town world, where we also live: the state offers very favourable conditions not only to obtain a flat but also to obtain its own apartment. By five million forints, even the VAT will be returned to Dániel Z. Carpathian if he finds a way to live in Baranya in constituency 3. This action plan provides HUF 150 billion for research and development, which is 32 billion more than it has achieved so far. I don't want to talk about the success of the super government bond right now, although I'm happy to mention it. I said that the Hungarian families were once characterized by the fact that they were drowning in debt, that was the tragic situation from which they started. Today, Hungarian families buy government bonds. I know not every family, I don't want to be a demagogue! I know not all families. However, the Hungarian families are buying state bonds to a large extent today. We are not vulnerable to foreigners, since we already have a debt to mention only the Hungarian sovereign debt in the stars, the 83% we started from. We're talking 70 percent today. If we look at the budget for two years, the numbers will start with 60. The Maastricht criterion would expect us to achieve 60 percent. Could you imagine in 2010, when we were drowning in debt, that in nine years' time we would be talking about growing this debt? Of course, I can refer back to the words of the better-speakers that the Hungarian government debt is still increasing in absolute terms, and he would like it not to be so. That's what I want. But it's an illusion. Only this Hungarian sovereign debt can be outgrown. The fact that the Hungarian economy is increasingly fulfilling, that GDP is growing; the accumulated public debt that we inherited, honourable socialists, from you, will grow and become smaller and smaller in proportion to GDP. I am happy with these trends. Obviously, he is, too, but why would he tell the reality, not talk about the absolute number of debts. Obviously, the European Union's system of criteria also expects us to reduce public debt in proportion to GDP, and this, thank God, is decreasing steadily. This is the result of realistic budget planning, the result of conscious budget planning, and even more the result of this government's compliance with the fiscal law and consciously seeking to curb public debt. I have mentioned that security is a prerequisite for everything, so security must be spent. Minister Varga said that every possible item of expenditure on which a state spends has increased, so the security police budget and defence budget have also increased significantly. [[Márta Demeter: Good!]] But not just for safety, a few figures. Families, as we have already said, are spending more than 220 billion more on the expenditure side. We spend 48 billion more than the current budget, we will spend 48 billion more on education compared to 19 and 184 billion more on health expenditure. Wages are important, of course. We are not satisfied with the wage level where this country is today, although there are significant changes here too. The following year, in the public sector, where the state generates wages, we spend 238 billion more on wages, and we spend 174 billion forints more on security overall. Some things about improvements. The rural world is waiting for these sentences to be said here. The fact that the programme "Modern Cities" continues with its own 4,000 billion-dollar budget is a natural one, since this process has been going on for years. But we introduced the Hungarian village programme in the current budget, and it is financed from the reserve in the current budget. This would have meant or could have meant that if the current budget figures had not been met as the government would have expected, then obviously only the reserve could be reached and the Hungarian village programme could fall. We see the real budgetary processes of this year, there is no such threat. From the reserve this year, we can finance the 150 billion we spend on Hungarian villages. In the 2020 budget, we no longer pay this programme from the reserve, but are incorporated into the budget. In terms of scale alone, I will say that this will continue to be a 150 billion-dollar item; as we spend about 50 billion on roads this year, this will be the case in the next budget period. Anyone who knows the Hungarian countryside knows that this is very important. In the settlements, nice developments have already been achieved, but if we have to move out of the villages and move to the walking chair or to another settlement, there is no way to overcome road conditions, so the road development programme is extremely important. That's what mayors always want in the first place, by the way. The village CSOK is back to the families. I refer back to what I said to Dániel Z. Kárpát that not only apartments, but also the creation of normal housing conditions can be relatively positive in the Hungarian rural world. This will be supported by HUF 50 billion. And the institution development, which, through many programs, is also under the control of Government Commissioner Gyopáros Alpár, will continue to run for HUF 50 billion in the next budget year. It's obviously just roads again in the highway program. It is important for motorways to reach the border, so that this program continues. The budget will also create conditions for this in 2020 and will also benefit from domestic rail development. There's still time to talk about the budget. I close my thoughts by recalling to you what I have already said, that a budget is intended to achieve the social vision of the government, the majority of Parliament. This social vision, which we consistently represent, means strengthening families, which is at the heart of the budget. To do so, we want to create economic conditions adapted to the current global economic situation, and because we know that there must be a safe Hungary in the background, and that is why we are spending on security. This is a conservatively planned budget, whose social and political goals inspire us, those in the KDNP fraction. We therefore propose to the other side as well. [[Gergely Arató: Should We Be Enthusiastic?]] I hope it doesn't hurt to mention it many times. [[Gergely Harvester: Yes!]] , find the points eligible for funding in the budget. I know you are not in a position to vote in favour of the budget at the end, but at least let us be realistic about the social and budgetary processes on which a budget can be discussed. If we help each other on the level of thinking, then it's worth it to spend hours here with each other. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-19-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go. [[11.20]]
u2019-06-19-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A budget is not just a set of numbers, it is always a mirror. A mirror of how a community thinks about redistributing jointly produced goods; how it wants to create redistributable goods and how it wants to distribute them; what it considers important, what it considers to be supported, what it wants to save money, who it puts a greater burden on and who it wants to help; what it thinks of the future or what it wants to support. This is also the case with the central budget for 2020; it shows how Fidesz thinks about Hungarian society and how it wants to acquire and distribute the public goods produced jointly for its own moonyard. The 2020 budget is therefore based on an anti-future, unfair redistribution, which is why the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction proposes more than a thousand billion HUF of resources to increase pensions and social spending, health and education budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us take a closer look at the draft budget for 2020. As has been the case in previous years, the proposal is now being made without knowledge of the facts, since it will be adopted in the absence of the 2018 accounts. Again, it is certain that dozens of government decisions will be amended, just as during the 2017 budget. It doesn't serve the transparency of the budget, it actually gives it to the government. We can also see, and this is the fact that next year's budget will increase by more than HUF 2200 billion in 2020, and the government plans to spend more money. Thank you to Hungarian people, employees and companies alike, because thanks to their work and activities, there is so much more money available to create a Hungary that guarantees a safe living, fair and solidarity. This money could serve us to avoid leaving anyone on the side of the road, not the needy or the disabled. This money could serve to ensure a safe pension increase in Hungary; to ensure that our parents and grandparents who work their lives with honor can make a living. This money could serve as the real one, the XXI. For our children to be prepared for the challenges of the century, and for our teachers to be honoured in payment as well. But with this money, we should also ensure that a healthy society is established so that our doctors, nurses and professionals do not have to work abroad for a safe living, and those who suffer from illness receive the benefits they need to heal at home. Dear Parliament, Despite increasing public revenues, the seemingly beautiful macroeconomic figures, if the current power spends them on itself and on its own moonyard rather than on satisfying our common needs to the highest possible level, and at least catching up Hungary to the countries of the region. According to László Csaba, CEU's university professor, member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, former advisor to Viktor Orbán, the Hungarian economy does not catch up with us at all international meetings, but is lagging behind in comparison with soccer players like Estonia, Slovakia, Poland and Romania. So it's not right to highlight a 5% growth curve and listen to everything else, not me, but the Prime Minister's former advisor. But here is another quote, not from the Prime Minister's advisor, but from the Prime Minister himself. The weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint is a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, The forint has weakened by more than a fifth, by 21 percent since 2010. According to the Prime Minister's earlier idea, the weakening of the forint means that money is actually stolen from people's pockets. Since people with wages, salaries and other contributions can buy less goods in shops, pensioners' allowances are also less valuable. 15 years ago, the Prime Minister thought that the government's references and attempts to weaken the forint could be compared to the medieval king's method, when the rulers tried to minimize the precious metal content of the money, deceiving its value. Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has happened since then. If we had so far had doubts as to why the government did not want to adopt the euro, then we could get an accurate answer to that, but everyone could still feel the weakness of the forint. We understand Minister Mihály Varga's words that you can also take a vacation at home, but the weak forint is not only a problem for the holiday designers, but also for the millions of people left on the side of the road and the tens of thousands of people who have lost their money. The weak forint is clearly the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank led by the government and György Matolcsy. And what we can see is that the government planned next year with a HUF 321 euro, so the forint will not be stronger. Dear Parliament, To show the injustices of the expenditure side, it is enough to see how much money Fidesz devotes to the operation of the state and how much it devotes to health care, education and social purposes. The government spends 18.4 percent of the budget expenditure on its own, almost 4000 billion forints, on the operational functions of the state. Do you remember that the Prime Minister promised a smaller and cheaper state in 2010? Today, besides ministers, there are 67 State Secretarys, 110 Deputy State Secretarys, 54 Ministerial Commissioners, all the top ministers of the ministry with the two ministers without wallets and one Deputy Prime Minister with a total of 244 persons. Over ten years, the cost of operating the State doubled nominally and increased by 3.1 percentage points in proportion to expenditure. At the same time, welfare expenditure, i.e. in the social area, pensions, health, education, has decreased by 5.3 percentage points over ten years. The growing cake brings smaller slices to health care, education and social benefits. We believe that this is not right, that it is not right, and that it is therefore necessary to change, and that is why we are presenting our amendments. The money that can be distributed has become more, but there is less of it for the real tasks of the state, because the stadiums are important for Fidesz and propaganda and a nuclear power plant that never returns. This is what we call a budget for corruption, because this is how the public money spent on it loses its public money character in Rogan, Orbán and other close acquaintances of government members. We say that it was enough because stadiums cannot be cured; propaganda does not replace quality education; the Orbán-Putin pact is only in the interests of Russia, and even our grandchildren will pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2020 budget is anti-future, because there is much less in 2020 for future education, so after 2010, the government still does not want to see the legitimate demands of teachers and students, students, or future generations. The government continues to neglect the management of the systemic health problems of future security. After ten years, public servants can still afford only the promise of a wage increase. Security budget doesn't give security employees a HUF raise. However, it does not matter if Paks II, the Budapest-Belgrád railway or the party media called the public service is involved, because the budget for the next year plans HUF 216 billion for these purposes. For this reason, MEPs from the MSZP will submit and support a package of amendments that will strengthen the social care system. The government's promises actually provide the necessary cover for children's meals, invalidity benefits and other social benefits. They respond to the housing crisis in Hungary, transferring money to a public housing program. These proposals provide education with a resource that has been missing for years; they allow health care workers to be properly waged, and they launch a programme that creates the right conditions for healing through renovations and asset purchases. We will also support the amendment package, the Budapest package, which Gergely Karácsony and Timea Szabó, submitted against Fidesz's anti-Budapest policy, as we see that the budget does not cover the necessary developments in Budapest, the sources of renovations that have been in vain for years. [[11.30]] Dear Parliament, Pensions are also rising only by 2.8 percent at the rate of planned inflation. According to some calculations, if the previous indexation were in force, if the previous pension scheme were in force, [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] , the so-called Swiss indexation, it would be possible to increase up to 7 percent. This would also be necessary because products which mainly account for the consumption of pensioners, such as food, have suffered a much higher price increase of 5 to 20% in the inflation package. (Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties. ) In order to support families in particular, we see the need to finally increase the amount of the family allowance for all children, which has not changed since 2008. In order to compensate for the loss of real value and to increase support for families with children, we are proposing a doubling of care. Similarly, we consider it important to support more child raising, so we recommend raising the child to roughly three times, since the basic minimum pension has remained unchanged for 12 years. The maternity allowance that will be given to families after childbirth would be increased to a high degree, we are proposing a doubling of care. Children in need also lost significantly twice a year in recent years, which is why we are initiating a doubling of care. The minimum amount of the substitute parental fee for the child protection system has remained unchanged for years, and according to the government's plans it would not change to HUF 25,000 next year. According to our proposal, our amending package, we would also increase the first reference amount for baby bonds. This problem would be solved by the budget setting the first amount of reference in HUF 70,000, and the two additional amounts of reference in HUF 75,000, following the inflation that has taken place so far in the future. The support of the cradle, mini-cradle does not increase compared to this year, so instead of the planned HUF 36.5 billion, we propose HUF 50 billion to create as many spaces as possible. The development of the day-to-day care of children is essential in order to support parents' childbearing and return to work. We recommend a doubling of the child's meal allowance. One of the reasons for this is the drastic rise in food prices. It is impossible to prepare the same quality and quantity of food from the same specific support after the increase in recent years, which is only HUF 570 per meal dose in the case of the worst-case settlement. We recommend raising this amount to 1140 HUF. In addition, we believe that it is necessary for students in high school to receive a 100 percent discount instead of today's 50 percent, as well as for all children in need during school holidays to receive meals, because the data show that the number of people receiving holiday social meals is falling, even though hundreds of thousands of people are entitled to a reduced meal during the year. No more money will be available next year for the operation of children's homes, but all that has changed is that it is no longer under the control of the Ministry of Police, not the Social Wallet. We would like more money, in the words of the government, to support social inclusion, so we are proposing to increase this to HUF 2 billion. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we propose an increase of HUF 1.1 billion in support of the purchase and conversion of motor vehicles for disabled people in order to support people with disabilities. If there is 10 billion forints to support the seven-man cars, then there must be at least 2 billion forints to support the disabled. We propose raising the budget for the child protection housing fund in order to support the start of life of young people out of public care. That would be increased by nearly HUF 800 million. After several years, the government has slightly increased the amount of the fair pension fund, but we do not consider it satisfactory, so half a billion forints for a fair retirement pension, 1.5 million for a fair pension increase. We would guarantee forints and HUF 1 million for single aid. We are starting to raise the 150 million HUF budget for this year's newly introduced exceptional disability benefit to provide support to as many people with disabilities as possible, and we are not going to put this down to compensate and increase their benefits by HUF 50 billion for those who have previously received an invalidity pension, as required by the Constitutional Court's decision. Although the government did not seem to count on the funds needed for the legislative amendments to be made in the next year's budget, I would ask my fellow Members to support our amendment. It is also proposed to increase social support established by district offices, as most of them will remain unchanged for the 12th year next year. But there is also a need to increase benefits in order to reduce income poverty, including today's humiliatingly low amount of employment support to HUF 50,000. In recognition of the work of those who receive care, we propose a substantial increase in the amount that is now included in the budget, the threefold amount: the basic amount should be HUF 90 thousand. Also, a 50% increase in the newly introduced child care fee is included in the amendment package. We are initiating a doubling of the public health budget, as it will remain unchanged as planned by the government for the next fourteen years. We also consider it necessary to increase the framework for so-called municipal aid to be granted by local authorities. Local governments should help families in particular settlements in need, thus reducing their income poverty and reducing their vulnerable situation. Based on the experience of recent years, we also see the need to increase the funding envelope for the purchase of firewood for social purposes. Despite the fact that the government is expanding the framework, we are proposing more, since many people still heat with wood and, failing that, use other energy carriers, which seriously threatens our environment, seriously endangers people's health. We propose doubling the framework, so we would increase this appropriation by HUF 5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue of housing poverty is right in front of us. In order to reduce housing poverty, we believe it is important that not only the higher-income families are supported by the state but also by the development of the social housing system for low-income families. We propose 30 billion forints next year. A total transfer of approximately HUF 764 billion is initiated to increase social support, family support, holiday meals, social housing, equity pensions and invalidity benefits, to reduce income differences and improve the quality of services. We recommend regrouping in the field of education to raise the wages of teachers, support universities, programmes to promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities, because our children and teachers who help them deserve much more than that. We also propose regrouping in the field of healthcare for comprehensive and real wage increases for healthcare workers, doctors, promised benefits for rescue workers and the development of hospital infrastructure, a significant increase in drug subsidies, because we believe that health and healthcare workers cannot be saved by a country. This funding is available in the anti-future 2020 budget, because if we look at how much taxpayers' money spend on propaganda, how much they spend on nuclear power plants, how much they spend on public media, stadiums, prestige investments, we find the source of these, and the economic growth they so often refer to, the source of that, the income of those social groups that really need the help of the state, and their situation can actually be improved. I would ask my fellow Members to support the amending packages, as the future, our health, the knowledge of our children and the lives of our disadvantaged fellow citizens are more important than how much stadiums are built and how much money is spent on propaganda. [[11.40]] With our amending proposals, as my fellow Member from KDNP has said, the budget could be improved if they support the amendments, but it is not impossible for us to support the budget, but certainly not this anti-future budget. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-19-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-19-19	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. There are few controversial legislative proposals and laws in the current legislation, such as the Finance Act. On the one hand, there is no doubt that it is certainly the most powerful expression of what a government's policy is, and on the other hand, for the majority of the voters who are watching us, it is a lot of opaque numbers. So it's hard as hell to share with the voters what a opposition representative has against a budget, because you obviously know that, and I know that a opposition representative is an opposition representative because he doesn't do two things: he doesn't vote for the Prime Minister and he doesn't vote for the budget. Therefore, you are not very concerned, you know that we will not vote in favour of the budget, and I am not nervous that I think that any of our amendments will be adopted. So it's a simple conversation between us, so it's worth using these conversations that they're really for, in case we get a little further inside, if not with you, but with our constituents. There are three things I would like to talk to you and to the electorate through you. The most important thing is that, of course, in the budget, it is very clear what you do not want. Well, they don't want to get any closer to European financial cooperation, so we say they don't want the euro to be the official payment instrument in Hungary either. This budget doesn't surprise me. In your constitution called the Fundamental Law, you have recorded it. This is still about how we need Europe as long as you can keep your hands on it. Now I don't agree to how much of this is stolen, we often talk about it, it's not a relevant issue, but they don't want this continent of 500 million to come closer to each other in financial, economic, budgetary and social terms. So our most fundamental debate in this sense is historic. You represent a nationalist policy called a Europe of nations, and I think that it will be successful for all the peoples of Europe and for all the nations of Europe to cooperate on more and more issues that make sense and not think as stupid as the fidesz Members sitting next to me who think that this is worth a good political boom because it does not disappear. Hungary will not be weaker if there is joint surveillance and coastal surveillance, Member. Hungary will not be weaker if we jointly regulate banks operating in almost all countries in Europe and have joint supervision, it will not be weaker if we do not allow them to destroy our workers in weaker countries of interest, but we say that we have a social standard that we enforce, if you want it not, I think it will be stronger. That's what you're afraid of, because then the Prime Minister's almost uncontrollable power will indeed be impaired. It's a crazy big difference between us. That's what you represent in this budget. You're not surprised at this and neither are we, but it would be nice to talk seriously to each other once in a while. My second comment. There are a lot of questions that seem technical, in which let's face it, our colleague Tamás Melár and, apart from some experts like him, most of us find it difficult to find out who is right. I don't want to get into that. What follows from the fact that in May we had the second highest inflation rate in the EU, 3.9 percent? How much you plan this budget, how much it is true that you will inflame the entire expenditure page and then say three sentences about it or not, a significant part of the Members in this Parliament will certainly not see all the consequences. I don't think it's a task, I would add, to exempt the pro-government representatives, and a significant part of the electorate who is looking at us doesn't know exactly that it's really the one who believes that VAT revenues will increase by 18.7 percent, or those who believe that they will increase by 10.5 percent. I don't agree to these debates because, frankly, it's none of our business. Our job is to ensure the environment in which the budget planner is based on a realistic professional basis. Well, you don't guarantee that. After 2010, changes were made, see the composition of the Budget Council, its powers, and others, in which there is no substantial professional, civilian control of the budget planning process today, we do not know the real facts of 2018 today, and we plan 2020 accordingly. My colleagues across the street, one of them is familiar with the budget, and they know it's absurd. What would we do with such an argument? Nothing. You have decided not to allow transparent planning and control of the budget. At best, we can use this at times to criticize. Therefore, the real reason that this debate is not at stake is because you are not touched by it, and the majority of our voters, let's face it, are not very interested. My third comment. [[Voices from the ranks of Fidesz, including Nana!]] Of course, we think very differently about what Hungary we want, but this is natural, which is why we are fighting each other. We do not think about others in detail, but the basic questions are those that are decisive in this matter. Sometimes you talk about a knowledge-based society. Now, my colleagues, who have the energy to go through such a large bill, say with sacred conviction that they see nothing of it in this budget. I am not simply suggesting what they are doing to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and I do not want to bring this debate forward here. I'm not suggesting what they're doing with colleges because we know, and I don't want to do it. But tell me what is the point of saying such texts, if, then, when we decide to redistribute a significant part of Hungary's national income here or there, it does not appear that you are concerned about what will become of this country in 10 or 15 years' time. Actually, that's the question. I'm sure there'll be more auto repair companies coming here. Definitely! I'm sure in many regions people will be happy to have decent jobs, although sooner or later they will be puffed for more money and better working conditions, but there is no doubt that this will solve a series of tensions for a while. Will we be among the nations of Europe that will be the most successful in the next 20 years? You're betting some of our money on this success today? I don't see it. Of course, you can say that we're blind, but frankly, I can't see any of this. The argument between them isn't that it's a little bit more, a little less, but it's not in it. [[11.50]] There is no real item in this budget that would highlight Hungary from the captivity of the past and the present, and it would say that we Hungarians will invest 1-2-3 percent of our money in the great challenges of the future. No! So, in my opinion, this is actually a budget for doing nothing, for continuing simple political propaganda, for survival. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Autumn!]] I understand how it is possible to boast, and in a sense it is not unreasonable to see the percentage of gross national income growth. Allow me for a moment to make a personal remark, in case you will not be very ironic to me, and for a moment I may even experience you thinking about what I am saying. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Let's hear it!]] I'm from a family where my sister has eight primary educations, and she's worked through her life in one single workplace, the only factory in the papal meat factory. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] I, obviously from the good fortune of the Creator or genetics, have taken a different path; now, please, do not discuss it, because that is not what I want to talk about. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: KISZ...]] Our income, if we add it up, has grown a lot in the last few decades if we add his to mine. But that's not the only question, is it? The question is, of the average income of the two of us, how did he and I share it, and it's a hell of a difference, you obviously know that. [[Nacsa Lawrence: But what's it made of?]] I don't want to mess with this thing, I want them to understand. The fact that a country's income increases by 4 percentage points alone is important, but it says very little about the country's real life. Who's got that 4 percentage points of extra income? [[Happy Stephen: Yours!]] How did the two primary income owners share so nicely talk about it, companies and people? What you're doing with the problem of what happened in the world right now is yelling at me, even under my government, so in the last 15-20 years it's been about 10 percentage points more money being taken out by companies, and the income generated is 10 percent less than people. The ratio that brought European peace to the Second World War has been upside down. After World War II. If you go further, it started around the same time as the neoconservatives, Mrs Thatcher and the American President Reagan For a very, very long time he steered... [[Dr. Attila Tilki: -Regen?--]] In the old days, if that's your biggest problem, then you should be right. It's typical of intellectual standards; then come out at the end and we'll talk about it. [[Interventions, murmurs from the benches of the governing parties: Oh!]] What are you going to do with this dilemma? Is this a real dilemma or not? What we see here in the world is the lack of peace that people feel bad about the countries in which, by the way, there have been functioning democracies and welfare systems for many, many years, why are they facing this? Can this be done on a national basis? Are you right when you say that the national state framework is suitable for dealing with such dramatic historical social conflicts, or for those who say that it is not, no, this is a situation where if only Hungary were to act, it would be ruined in about two years, because even the few funds that are here would leave us? And we're at the same problem I started. Can social peace, justice, tranquility or build on the future be locally and on a national basis? I don't think so. I wouldn't have a problem with the debate if it had a fair argument, and they would tell me, of course, that we're going to be a Caliphate here, and the refugees are coming, because this is about the end of our debate, how we're going to deal with the problem of being full of people who live from 100 to 120 thousand forints a month. You know that. Congresswoman and Lords! We're taking home a net of around 700,000 forints as an average congressman. Isn't that right? That's right. ? Even though the average income in Hungary exceeds 300,000, the average people who work in the majority of Hungary earn 90-100-150 thousand forints. That's right! You know as well as I do that it's hard as hell to make a living out of. Hell, yeah. [[Happy István: He hires billions...]] What on earth could be done to ensure that not only Hungary, but in this region of Europe, there are many people who do not earn 120 thousand forints, but 250 to 300 thousand, 400 thousand? What are we supposed to do with this? Is there any effort you're going to make or not? I don't see it. I can't see it! Of course, I understand that it is a very good thing that they say that the tax is one-key and we reduce the tax, but tell me why it is not legitimate to talk about whether it is okay to pay the same amount of tax on a salary over HUF 1 million. Why is it from the devil if we want to talk to you about this in a normal way? Where will this money go, what would we do with it, that obviously those who belong to this income category are happy. Of course they're happy! But that's not the issue of our debate. It's about what comes in like a few ten billion forints, isn't it? I read it the other day, do you read it at any of the government windows? At the DMV? Instead of nine, there's only two. I read it the other day. I don't want to read any curses on the heads of government representatives, I really don't. You know the news isn't unique. There are district and county offices that are essentially empty, unable to do their job. What are we gonna do with this? What? What do you suggest? How will normal order be here again? For example, the state must also provide, of course, security, much needs to be provided, but also, among other things, must be provided. You can't throw these numbers at me! And if I open the budget, and I see that in a number of places there really is trouble in parentheses now, I won't open it while there's a ministry in quotes that spends so much that we can't count it, because it's important politically, how do we solve this problem? What do you think? And you don't say anything about that. Well, then why on earth are we talking about the budget? We can't talk to each other intelligently about how some of our country doesn't work. 'Cause you're not gonna get anywhere with nine years ago or ten years ago when you were in charge of what it was. That was measured by the voters. I'm sure you'll remember that we were defeated then, judged by the electorate. We paid the price, gentlemen. But if you believe that the only valid answer to today's performance is that you, too, are intellectually and politically very mediocre, or not even that. So, now we have to measure your performance, and I would like to say to you that yesterday, when my four-year-old child was held by my wife, not yesterday, the day before yesterday, Monday, because yesterday she was in Brussels, she took it to the DMV in Budapest, where the supply is very normal, really, so much better than many places, they sat for two and a half hours. You can say that it's not dramatic, you can check in, you can say a lot of things, you can only understand, understand that I think that in these debates we can act as if we are important to the country. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Brussels...]] We could act like one. And we could also act as if we weren't all-indebted to people who weren't half-witted, unprepared, for a single comment, because at times great people were sitting in this House. Try to think about them from time to time. I won't tell you who to think of, because then I'll open up another debate, but believe me, there's a higher standard than one of you and the other. Of course, you can say that, but the year of families is finally coming, and we're launching a family protection plan. You could say that. I'm not saying it's not legitimate to argue that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You should have voted!]] That's why we didn't vote. I'm just responding to the screaming Fidesz congressman, one of the congressmen... [[Dr. András Aradski: KDNP!]] KDNP! On the comment of one of the accountable representatives of the high-value KDNP, because we disagree, and I will tell you why not, before you think that this can be dealt with with with with lousy political remarks, because I take you more seriously than you do this Parliament. You've been doing the same family policy for nine years, the same thing. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: The one behind you...]] The essence of their family policy is a well-known theory, a well-known theory in the world, and indeed, it goes back to the neoconservatives, that the better life of families with higher status, the extra income and opportunities created by it, will automatically go down to families with more difficult fates and raise nations overall. It's a well-known theory shared by many for a long time. The simple consequence of this is not to tax anyone very high, to give more money where we hope that more children will then be born in better-mode families, and with this there will be more responsibility, and how good it is for the country to have more children in families where they pay more attention to the child, not to have more children in families where there are many times less attention, let us say. You listen to this once, I think that makes sense. The question is whether this logic has proved to be correct. [[12.00]] You've been ruling for the ninth year, we have a relatively long time series. Why don't we take a look? In the last hundred years, there have been three births of fewer than 90,000 children in Hungary. Three times. What was the last year? Last year. While you're giving a lot of money to better-income families. Two, we see that the number of families with three children has increased a little, and now perhaps 3.4 percent of the families have three children. But what happened in parallel? The number of families with two children has fallen dramatically. What is the consequence of this? Where there aren't two kids, there won't be a third. It won't. Let's be serious, please, but the little science that's available and hasn't been killed yet. What is happening is that Hungary will be the world of single-child families, two children are very few, and very few places that represent 3-4 percent of families actually have a small growth. There is no result of this economic policy. I'll tell you a third thing. Where are more children born? Where? [[Intercoms from Fidesz, among them: Hospital. Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]] Look at the demographic map of Hungary, it does not require great diving and mining. He's so, so low, what you guys are doing, really, he's so down, he's not worthy of you. Most children are still born in microregions with the lowest incomes. Against their will and their intentions, which I did not dispute is fair, I just want us to talk to each other normally. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks, including, "You're gonna be difficult."]] , contrary to the intentions of this family policy to have more children in stronger, better-placed, richer families, what has happened is that if more children are born at all, they will continue to be born in the poorest regions in micro-regions. I can tell my fellow Christian Democratic Congressman that I'm reading this, not because I'm a demographer, but because it's my profession to try to represent the interests of the country in the house of the country, and when I read these, I find out that you're on the wrong path. And when I come in here and I try to tell you what the problem is, what you're doing, we can't discuss it. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: 'Cause when you finish this, go home.]] There is no positive benefit to their family policy over the past nine years. I don't know one professionally justified number that says that this family protection action plan you call it would be justified to do the same thing many times now, to give it to those who have relatively more, and to let it be that there are some where they live from day to day. It is natural that we cannot support this budget. How can we support it? That's not what we think of the world. We think that if a country has money to support families, it should first give us where we can contribute at least a little to living until tomorrow. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He really knows what that is.]] That, by the way, this might not transform culture? That they're gonna live in the same self-absorbed way they've been living? That could be it. You can be right about that. It's just worth acting like we're taking responsibility for the fate of the country from time to time, and we're not just playing political games with each other. What I'm talking about is a world that I could argue for without having every second sentence of migrantism. Unfortunately, the way I can only talk to you, whatever I say, is that you have about the beginning and the end of your argument that Gyurcsány obviously wants to let refugees in and represent Brussels in Hungary. But you will see that this is unworthy of the country, not of you, of the country. We have a thousand problems and problems, compared to that, there is a general sense and reason for certain Members to support refugees who are far from Hungary, so let me add it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: So no migration.]] We're not getting anywhere today, of course. I have no such intention. I wanted to show you that, unlike your opinion, I don't know how many, I'm sure I'll take my job seriously by meditating on when you're right and when you're wrong. And I can't say that you can't be right from time to time, but I ask you, frankly, on behalf of my country and my constituents, to do this, what you are doing today. I'll take that. Because you may say that you've been elected by 50 percent, but if that's true and that's an argument, then I'm saying I don't know what percentage we are. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If you are asking for some kind of appreciation because you have a voter behind you, then I can tell you that there is also a voter behind these Members, and the conviction of the voters behind these Members is just as legitimate. You could at least learn from history that the truth is not equal to the majority. Sometimes, yes, sometimes not. And if we think that you now have a political majority, but you're going historically wrong, then forgive us and acknowledge that, yes, we believe that what you're doing is drama. Therefore, I think that the budget debate is good at times, because there's a hell of a lot to talk about, let's just say that we disagree with you from roughly to zero. Not a little, but a lot. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP. Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-19-20	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the LMP Group. The LMP Group indicated that two speakers would give the keynote speech. First up, Mr Csárdi, Congressman. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány is leaving the Chamber. Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including, "If you're leaving now, how are we gonna argue?" The president's ringing the bell.]] I thank the lead speaker of the LMP Group for their understanding, Mr Csárdi. Here you go.
u2019-06-19-21	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear House, This budget is worthy of Fidesz, but it is unworthy of Hungary and unworthy of those who have become politicians for the creation of a successful country. This budget is the budget for living the future, the scenario for living the future, the scenario for which you have been working in the pro-government benches for years. It is enough to look at the main figures to make it clear that you think of nothing more than how to exploit the present here and now, less money to protect our environment, less money to control climate change, less money for education, more money for multinationals, and I think this is a wrong direction. Every year you narrow down the number of people who benefit from the budget, and the number of people left by the government on the side of the road is increasing. Next year's budget will continue exactly where it left off this year. Still not facing the wage crisis, the housing crisis, the climate crisis, still not helping single - parent families [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] , young people wrestling with the difficulties of starting a life. It does not make healthcare work, it does not develop education sufficiently, it does not create a more livable age for pensioners and it does not support small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, and it does not stop migration. All warnings, threatening signs, the Hungarian government is not disturbed by the facts. It seems that despite the good view of the Buda Castle, the Hungarian government does not see the reality. [[12.10]] But let's not be completely unfair, let's be honest, because there is another side of the coin. Who are the winners of the budget because there are some, although not too many? There are clear winners for multinational companies, large companies and banks. They hardly have to pay taxes, but in return they receive the state aid without counting, the government guarantees that Hungarian workers will work as much as possible on depressed wages, and then, if there is already a shortage of labour, they will receive a slave law as a gift, if it does not help, then, of course, the workers imported from the eastern countries can come. In other countries, large companies use lobbyists to shape government decision-making for their own benefit. This is not even necessary in Hungary, as the members of the Hungarian government are lobbyists of the multinationals themselves. Péter Szijjártó never misses a single occasion when he can stand up for German car manufacturers, he proudly undertakes that the profits of German industry are more important than that of Hungarian people breathing clean air or getting decent wages for their work. The other winner of the budget is a narrow circle, which is mostly meant by all of Viktor Orbán's relatives, friends and business partners. This can only be summarized with a story-telling turn, and the story-telling element is justified, because on the one hand, the wealth that has been accumulated in recent years is fabulous, and on the other hand, it could not have happened without the help of the fairy godfather. It is always clear from the budget that the Prime Minister's relatives and friends have put their hands on it. This year, the VAT on accommodations is falling to 5 percent, which means that the Monopoly around Lake Balaton, played by Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborc in recent years, is slowly ending, everyone in their favorite waterfront settlements shopping, some reeds from Balaton, the elimination of the remaining free beaches, some new yacht ports are still to come, but instead of sailing competitions, there will be a jet ski tournament, and what comes to their mind. Even before anyone thinks that this will make the average Hungarian holiday cheaper, unfortunately I have one bad news: it will not be cheaper for Hungarians to vacation even at home, because this VAT reduction will remain in the pocket of hotel owners. In yesterday's tax law debate, I offered a bet that if you compare the cost of 3 days of 2 nights over this long weekend, the amount spent for the long weekend in 2020 will not be less than a single forint. But let's see who else is on the side of the winners: on the one hand, the Russian state can look satisfied through the westernmost province, the Paks expansion is not in danger, we pay the loan as the military officer, even if nothing is being built. It is true that the renewable energy industry is being developed everywhere in the world, because it is becoming cheaper, and it also means safe and clean energy, but Viktor Orbán is not interested in facts and reality. China has no reason to complain, the Budapest-Belgrád railway with its large 60 billion-dollar line is also a silver medal behind the Paks investment, and let's face it, silver is also bright. Finally, despite the increase in family support expenditure, I think it is worth talking about, because, in vain, family support expenditures will increase, if only a narrow circle can take advantage of them, because the family support system you have invented is a credit product, and as for all credit products, the recipient must be creditworthy, and let us admit that in Hungary, the majority of society cannot say that about itself. It's no coincidence that the demographic turn is still waiting for you. The problem is not the birth of the third or fourth child, but the fact that young people do not dare to take on the first child often, let alone the second child. But why would I dare? For the majority, there is no affordable housing, no normal pay and no solid vision. You have removed the main form of savings, the housing savings bank solution, even though it was an accessible and effective tool for assistance. And what's the alternative to Fidesz? Credit and debt in a country where hundreds of thousands of families are still moaning all the consequences of the currency loan ten years ago. Dear Parliament, This is a distorted reflection of the Hungary that is needed in almost every aspect of the budget. You have been underfunding education for years, and this area needs a lot more resources. Show another country in the world where the education budget will be reduced in real terms, and even the decline will have a major impact on higher education, the funding of which will decrease not only in proportion but also in sum. If we look back over the past years, the entire educational area's budget is stuck somewhere at the level of four to five years ago, so it follows directly that, alongside the growing national total product, the expenditure on education in proportion to GDP is constantly shrinking, and we are already well below 4 percent. This, compared to the average of 6 to 7 percent of Western EU countries, I think it cannot be a question of discussion that it can be called a significant lag. At international level, not only are we working behind us, but we are increasingly moving away from knowledge-based economies, even though we know precisely that the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and the Council have been adopted. The key is the knowledge economy and the knowledge society. At present, money is the most lacking in the wages of professionals working in education. Today, a junior educator or university assistant takes home less than 140 thousand forints. But it should also be spent on bled-out school and university infrastructure, with no education system outside or inside of XXI. In most places, the expectations of the century are very strained by dedicated professionals. The LMP would spend more on education because education is a system of individual and social ascension. We want an education where no matter where you come from, no matter what kind of family you are born into, and no matter which settlement you study in, village or city, you get the same high level of service. If you come with a disadvantage, you have to compensate for the disadvantage of being talented, you have to care for your talent. It is not only the physical knowledge that needs to be punched into the heads of students, but also the skills and abilities they need to develop to meet the changing challenges of the changing world and thus create a successful Hungary. We would be able to create this, but unfortunately this budget is not going in this direction. You have also been neglecting health care for years, and are worthy heirs of the governments so far. The Hungarians' health indicators are tragic, and today the hospital is no guarantee that someone will not come out sicker than they went in. It is typical even in Budapest that Hungarian health care is characterized by crumbling walls, lack of tools, waiting lists, overloaded doctors and nurses. More and more doctors and nurses leave health care, and now more and more people are sick. Many people are forced to turn to private health, even though we know that the resources spent on this are taking the source from savings, for example, the amount of a holiday. You cannot create the most basic infrastructure conditions for health care, nor can you guarantee that there are enough doctors. I would just like to remind everyone here that not so long ago was a weekend in the capital where three of the four on-call hospitals had to cancel the weekend shift, and we know precisely that the key to this, the key to the solution, is an extremely significant, extremely high wage increase for both doctors and other health workers. As a Green Party, health is one of the most important things in Hungary, and the most important element of this is prevention, because it is the cheapest to treat the disease that has not yet developed, and it is best for citizens to spend as little time as possible in the hospital. This approach, I think, does not appear in this budget either, but it could mean significant savings in the long term if this finally appeared. 100th century, forgetting the 1970s in Hungary's budget. Dear Parliament, Fidesz's tax policy is one of the main reasons why education and health today, the social sphere, does not receive its support. The government leaves huge money at the multinationals instead of spending these money on the Hungarian people through the supply system. [[12.20]] It is not for the multinationals to give tax incentives, but for the domestic SME sector, not for the poor, but for the rich. If there is a need for a VAT reduction somewhere, it is not the accommodation, but the basic food range. The range of basic foods that may be reduced by VAT in the May Other Politics has been demanding for many years, and this year, I think we can't wait any longer. In the year when less than half of the usual rainfall falls in the first four months of the year, then several months of precipitation falls in the following two weeks, and the heat wave after that again causes further damage to Hungarian agriculture, I think there is no question that significantly increasing food prices cannot be charged with 27 percent VAT. But there is the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which no one uses, in which they pour the money again, and I think that instead it would be safe to spend it on a normal train development in Balaton, and then perhaps it would not take four hours to get down to the people who want to travel to Balaton, just like the XX. In the beginning of the century. If they didn't spend another 80 billion on unnecessary and expensive and dangerous Paks expansion, then this could be spent on house renovation and insulation, and then perhaps we wouldn't be heating the Hungarian streets with gas and not the planet. In addition, this could create a real reduction in the rent, which does not depend on the convenience and pleasure of the current government. I think that I would like to talk about one more thing in any way, because if you didn't want 130 billion forints at all costs, I repeat: 130 billion forints in the form of tao in various sports associations, for example, we could take a big step towards health care recovery, as if György Matolcsy didn't have to buy a foundation, a castle, a piano, a horse, a spaceship, then there would be money to help the foreign exchange loaners left on the side of the road. I think it is all our responsibility not to build up the budget for the past, but for the future, and to put it on the table, and to eliminate or at least reduce the social gap that you have created since 2010. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-19-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, another lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-06-19-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If someone were to look at the budget in front of us and tell us what year it is, he would be in a lot of trouble. This budget, in addition to some painful topicalities, such as the pledging of the MTA or the Paks II investment, could actually be a good ten years ago draft. It lacks our present and Hungary's challenges. Because we see that in many other countries across Europe, a budget looks very different. We see governments taking responsibility for the future, creating social and environmental justice and seeking to combat climate change. Compared to this, the Hungarian government refuses to face the danger of climate change for our country, even though we already feel the negative effects on our skin. The other area where we can feel that we have gone nowhere in the last ten years is the social sphere. It is even a lot to say that for more than a decade there have not been an increase in two very important social items: family allowances and minimum pensions. Both have been mentioned many times, and the LMP has also initiated on several occasions to provide real financial assistance to raise children and to eliminate poverty in old age. Unfortunately, we found deaf ears every time. So today we are talking about some 47,000 pensioners trying to make a living on less than 50,000 forints a month's pension. Moreover, the government adds to the situation of pensioners when it only corrects the value of pensions with an underestimated inflation. Not to mention that in parallel with the 3 percent increase, the price of vegetables and fruits increases by 20-30 percent, but up to 80 percent. Now we've heard that the price of the cherry has doubled. Meanwhile, in the morning Minister Mihály Varga spoke about how great and how good it is for pensioners, because since 2010, the real value of pensions has been preserved. They just forget that today 600,000 people are trying to make a living on a pension below 100,000 forints, which is simply impossible. Dear House, The budget of Fidesz has been born in exactly the failed neoliberal view for years, which is all it does is drive economic growth, not caring for the long-term future. Mihály Varga also told us in the morning what a success it was, because next year, GDP growth may be 2 percent higher than the EU average in Hungary. However, we need to see that society and the environment in this system are just expendable, exploitable tools. This is followed by low wages, deteriorating health and education, pension crisis, poverty, and this is followed by cut-off and concrete green surfaces, water, soil and air pollution, which are carried out by multinationals that are generally generously supported by the government. As a green politician, it is sad to see that this budget is precisely the environmental protection and green investment that should be spent more than ever. From a sustainability and eco-political point of view, it must be said that this budget has failed. We believe that it is necessary to put an end to the times when the service of the economy makes all other aspects secondary. The statements made by Péter Szijjártó regularly that the interest of the German automotive industry is more important than the protection of the environment and clean air are unacceptable. It is unacceptable for Viktor Orbán to veto the joint climate protection plan at European Union level as well, in order not to reduce the production of the automotive industry. The Prime Minister once said not to listen to what I say, but to what I do. Well, when it comes to cutting off climate protection, Viktor Orbán is doing exactly what he says. Unfortunately, this is exactly the approach that the budget reflects. Ladies and gentlemen, Last century was about the need for economic growth to be subject to social equality and environmental sustainability. As a result of the unregulated economy, income and wealth differences have increased dramatically, and today we use nearly one and a half planets of resources in a year. In Hungary, this ratio is 2.2. This means that just this week we have used the resources that should have been allocated for the whole year. From now on, we're going to live up to our future. Prior to the climate crisis, the policy defined success in a single measure, more precisely in terms of GDP growth. This was necessarily due to the fact that, instead of people, it actually considered multinational companies as its primary partner. It is regrettable and tragic that the Hungarian government is still here, but this period must end, it is time for us to see society, the environment and the economy as a unified system. Here again, I would like to note that Mihály Varga spoke about everything in his intro this morning, but he said one sentence about environmental protection, that irrigation should then be increased in agriculture. Well, that's a little small in a budget, that's all the competent minister is talking about environmental and nature protection. Let's look at the budget with a little more green eyes. The European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council propose to increase the funding of the Union's environment and climate policy programme by almost 60 percent in the new budget of 2021-2027, saying that this is one of the instruments that will allow the European Union to become climate neutral by 2050. [[12.30]] After Viktor Orbán and several other V4 prime ministers allied with him vetoed the EU climate plan, the leaders of nine countries made a proposal that would devote 25 percent of the EU budget to climate change control, prevention-related thinking and adaptation to the already inevitable impacts. Compared to this, the Hungarian budget has to earn a few billion forints spent on similar purposes with a magnifying glass. Germany, Finland and many others are making increasing efforts at national level to address these issues. The British and Irish parliaments have declared a climate crisis. Fidesz, on the other hand, prevented at home from having a debate on the similar LMP proposal at all in this House. The Fidesz government budget ignores the environmental and human right to a healthy environment. Typically, in the reasons for the division of domestic funds, the word "environment" does not occur. Shocking! There is only one short paragraph at EU sources, which suggests that development of utilities, waste management and flood protection will continue from EU funds to fulfil our EU obligations. Unfortunately, this budget is an enhancement of the trend of the destruction of natural capital. The draft virtually lacks the remediation of contaminated areas that threaten natural capital, environmental quality and health, even though there are many such problems in Hungary. As an example, the Óbuda Gas Factory, the stench of 60, which is also known in front of the national press. But other than that, we know dozens of cases, and they keep popping up over and over again. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] There is also a lack and unsolved problem of asbestos removal of homes, schools and public institutions for decades, which endangers lives. These are often revealed only in some renovations, even though they should be restored in a preventive manner. We can see that there is little funding in the budget for public energy efficiency improvement programmes, and that these would require an enormous amount more money than what was planned. But what we see is that the government does not intend to spend enough money either to protect the soil or to improve water quality, so both have been deteriorating for years. At the very least, soil needs to be very focused, as according to such global data soil productivity is extremely rapid everywhere in the world, but I think it is also very fast in Hungary. As the effects of climate change get worse, we will find that water and soil are the greatest treasures, but then it will be too late. We see that the money for the public reconstruction fund for water utilities is also a fraction of the minimum necessary. Dear House, Adapting to climate change is necessary, because unfortunately, there are already effects that can only be mitigated and that we are forced to adapt to. Most of these have to be planned at municipal level, because as many settlements as there are so many different problems. We also do not see in the budget that funds will be planned for the municipalities. There is no source for the maintenance of water damage control works or for water retention and storage, while this year we have experienced the worst drought year in recent years. Unacceptably little money, 90 million are included in the implementation of the national air load reduction programme, while on the other hand we see that, for example, National Tobacco Trading Nonprofit Zrt. You will receive HUF 800 million for operating aid. It cannot be said that this government and the budget would serve the health of people. But we can also see that there is hardly any resources to reduce raggrass, only 44 million, and it now affects millions of the population. Plus, the allergy season is getting worse. Compared to the 60 billion set for the senseless development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, there are only 450 million for the coordination of public transport, 96 billion forints for the maintenance and operation of the road network. As a Green Representative, the capital increase of Paks II.- 77 billion is still unacceptable, as is the unexplained low level of payments to the Nuclear Fund. We know that between 2032-37, Paks I and II must be led out. How are we gonna fund it? Last but not least, this government systematically eliminates the environmental institutional system so that there are no responsible professionals who dare to warn the government about environmental degradation. We see that all Hungarian civil society organisations taking over state tasks receive ridiculous support compared to the amount of the budget, while the President of the Republic's foundation will be rich in budgetary resources again this year. Dear House, Abandoning climate change-related measures is more than a mistake. It's also a sin against the future. The above items would help to build a sustainable economy, increase or at least preserve human, natural and economic capital. We need to see that the 21st century Ecopolitical thinking is the only one that can reverse social and environmental damage caused by irresponsible neoliberal economic policies over the past decades. We're in the last hour, and we're the last generation whose fate is still in its own hands. We need to put an end to the large corporate lobby that destroys climate, make our economy carbon neutral as soon as possible. We need to reduce our ecological footprints, which means we need to move more consciously, buy and eat. Dear House, This 2020 budget is a scenario for the future and not for saving the future. Therefore, LMP will not be able to support this budget law. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause on the opposition side.]]
u2019-06-19-24	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congresswoman, for your speech. The Dialogue Group indicated that two speakers presented their views. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó.
u2019-06-19-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a lemon-flavoured orange budget that's in front of us. You know, it's like, you know, it's like, it's like, you The witness movie, when Comrade Bastion bites into the lemon, gets a little licked up, but then he puts on a good face, and everyone else applauds. But Pelikán says that he has a bad feeling about this scam or the scam. By the time Comrade Virág says, "Well, well, who are we kidding, Comrade Pelikán, we know what's going on, we know we're lying, scientists are glad to have a medal on their breasts, people don't eat lemons or oranges, so they don't have any shots at this, but the imperialists have been fooled. That's how you feel about this 2020 budget, too, that you're actually trying to... you can't fool yourself because you know what this is all about. People are being fooled by all the bullshit Michael Varga has said about the various sectoral increases, but this budget is actually a scam. It's a hoax that they've set a 1 percent deficit target. Before that, there was 1.5 percent in the convergence programme. While an estimate of 1 percent is being made, the families are about to be indebted by HUF 700 billion. This includes a baby shower program of HUF 420 billion. So all you do is push this gap away. The EU is either buying this in or not, but we would like to draw attention to this, in any case, to the fact that you are preparing to indebte your families by 1.6 percent of GDP. The second big scam in this budget is the health situation. Mihály Varga told us how good it is, because next year's budget will be HUF 184 billion more than this year, but unfortunately we see that this is not the case. Taking into account the current 3.9 percent inflation, a large amount of the total cost is already coming off. Taking into account the amount spent on the super hospital and taking into account the need to make up for hospital debt on a continuous basis, we can practically see that the health budget for next year is hardly changing compared to this year. [[12.40]] As we continue to lead cancer deaths, we continue to lead to death from cardiovascular diseases. And if we just look at this week's news about health in the press, we can see that doctors are dressing under the stairs and sleeping in the emergency room. Doctors are in an amazing humiliating situation. The comprehensive article that shows that Hungarian doctors die extremely early, both men and women, a third of male doctors over 40 years of age are not worth retirement age, half of women. Every second female doctor dies before retirement from amazing evisceration, constant duty, stress, because you cannot ensure that there are enough doctors in the country and value them with a decent salary. But unfortunately, we also saw yesterday that the doctors working in trauma called an extraordinary assembly because of the untenable situation. What we see is that next year's budget, which you spend on health care, is not enough to provide doctors, nurses, rescue workers with an obvious wage increase. I submitted a budget amendment more than a month ago, before the 2020 budget proposal came out, about raising the salaries of hospital workers and paramedics. You weren't even willing to put it on the committee's agenda. By the way, they are in violation of the law on this matter, because the house rules also require that the commission take this on the agenda within 30 days; we are already over 30 days, and this has not happened. Gabriella Selmeczi said that these billings could wait. So you think the hospital staff can wait, the rescue workers can wait to get a raise. The third big scam is education. Even though Mihály Varga said that extra expenditure is expected here, what we see is that in real terms education is the biggest loser of next year's budget, minus HUF 32 billion in real terms, what is intended for next year's education. We'd only need 80 billion next year to be zero, so we'll get the same education as this year. No wonder, then, that there are more than 2,000 teachers missing from the system; no wonder that young people, children, now high school students are fleeing the country and going abroad to study. 60 percent of the young people interviewed would like to go to university abroad or work abroad, and I note that they do not want adventure, but because they do not see their progress at home. And speaking of raising children, it's quite interesting that you, as part of your daycare program, allow the municipalities to give the churches the nursery reservations, in exchange for not having to finance it. It follows that all the municipalities that cannot finance this care will hand over the cradle to the churches. That's one of those stealthy things, how can I say it? It is a religious thing, which is unacceptable in Hungary. You can't live in a country where little children, children under the age of two, can only be placed in church nurserys. On the one hand, it's not fair, because it's the state's job, and on the other hand, we know that as long as a government has an obligation to hire all the children, a church can choose, so it can discriminate among the children who is willing to hire. The fourth big scam after the year of the family, how much you're helping the families. We see that the so-called seven-point family protection action plan is nothing more than the debt of families for 6-7 persons, I don't know how many personal cars or the kind of grandparents' lawn that actually fooled Hungarian people with again. If we look at the billboards, we see a 70-year-old cute man dealing with his granddaughter, then we can think how good he is, because he can use this grandparent child after retirement. Then it turned out that it wasn't at all, so it took an active age, an employee, to be a grandparent, to use this grandparent child. If mothers are not safe when they are at home with newborn children, because we know precisely that they are protected by the law, in practice, in most cases, employers cheat this and not fire their mothers, but end their jobs. Imagine the situation where a grandparent between 50 and 60 years of age is affected by this question, who will dare to go away for one or two years before retirement, so that he will be fired or terminated before retirement, hire a young person instead, and never go back in life, exactly in the critical last five years, which is very much included in this pension. So you fooled the families, too. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Everyone!]] And they don't help the poorest, poorest families. This is also today's news that KSH now refuses to give the researchers poverty figures for money. At the end of 2015, you stopped calculating the minimum wage, saying that it is a misleading figure, because it does not measure the poorest, but the people who live from 90,000 forints. I don't know how many of you could make a living out of 90,000 forints, and I think that means a lot of poverty. In any case, today's news is that they are now so afraid that real poverty figures will come out that they will no longer be willing to publish them for money to the research company, Policy Agenda, which tries to reconstruct these numbers every year. They're still families and the worst. You don't give a penny more to disabled people's organisations. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Not for the disabled, not for the mentally disabled. But it's true, because they contacted us in a letter. These organizations, the people with autism, have contacted me, the disabled, the mentally disabled, they don't get any more, and if they don't get any more, that means they get even less in real terms. As long as you guys hustle, while you rip this country apart, these people, families, the poor, they get nothing again. Finally, this is another anti-Budapest budget, once again being drained, as in recent years, the capital city. It's just concrete, support for the oligarchs and a stealth Olympic project that we see in next year's budget. Even though more than 200,000 people in Budapest say that they do not want an Olympics, you have put in next year's budget the funds for facilities that will be needed to organise a future Olympics. In the name of the Dialogue, we reject this, the budget of scam and poverty. We want to live in a Hungary where people feel safe; where they can live well; where they do not have to worry about tomorrow; where there are no 50,000 starving children; where mothers do not have to worry about being able to go back to the labour market; where older people do not have to worry about being able to buy a chicken tail tomorrow, or even if they freeze in their homes in winter, and you do not even give out these data about how many older people are freezing in their homes in winter. We don't want a country like this, we want a country where everyone matters, where not the few get the most money again, but the majority get the subsidies. There is no need for a handball hall for HUF 35 billion, there is no need to support the MTVA propaganda television for HUF 75 billion, there is no need for the Paks II expansion for another HUF 77 billion, there is no need for Viktor Orbán's move to Castle for another HUF 85 billion, and there is no need for Antal Rogán's propaganda ministry for HUF 24 billion. If we add up these numbers, they amount to more than 300 billion forints. You don't give this to health care, you don't give it to education, you give it to these completely unnecessary investments again, most of which are also being stolen. We are presenting, on behalf of the Dialogue, a comprehensive budget amendment, where there is an adequate amount of money for health care, an appropriate and decent 50% wage increase in health care; where those working in education, not only teachers, but also all people working in education, feel that this state appreciates it, we will also provide more resources for this. [[12.50]] We're going to support the weakest with a larger amount of money. Believe me, it is not good for you to live in a country where the poor will be poorer, where after a while you will have to surround yourselves with a wall, because then the people will start. Let them be... I see that my fellow Member Nacsa likes it terribly, so I do not know how much he will like it if that happens. But I'm glad you're having so much fun at this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Are you threatening me?]] I'm definitely not, because I'm here to tell you what I'm supposed to do. But if you think I'm threatening you with this, then take legal action. [[Intruder from the ranks of Fidesz: Uh-oh!]] We will also present a Budapest package that will prepare the capital for climate change, which will provide the capital with a new lung, a forest in Csepel that will help the capitals out in its completely backward and outdated transport system, and which will stop the devastation that the government of Viktor Orbán has been doing for years, that bleeding out of the capital. We want a liveable country, a liveable capital. This budget is completely inadequate to create this. The Dialogue says that everyone in this country matters, and not just your NER luxury-walking buddies. We will submit such a budget amendment, and I ask for your support so that not only you, but also the majority of the Hungarian people in this country, will have a good time. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-06-19-26	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellar.
u2019-06-19-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A few years ago, when I was a happy economist professor, I thought that the budget in a country's economic affairs was the most important thing, so we have to be very prepared for this, and we have to discuss it very carefully, because there will be a lot to depend on. Now I know that it doesn't depend on much, obviously not on what we talked about earlier, that we are discussing this budget at a time when we don't have enough information yet that we can actually evaluate the processes at all, because we don't even have the final numbers of 18, we know something about 19 in the first quarter, and I would like to say something relevant about 20. My fellow Member, János Harghitai, tried to reassure me, and I obviously have to pay attention to his voice, because he is my representative in my district for twelve years, but I cannot agree with him now, because he said that all the numbers were always fulfilled, that the macro numbers had been met. Well, that is only a small part true, only in the part that the deficits have always been met, this is undoubtedly the case, and this is a great virtue of the current government, by the way, that it has complied with the deficit target of less than 3 per cent from 2010. You have to admit that. But in order to look at it compared to last year, you would like to remember that it calculated a 2.7 percent inflation rate of 311 HUF, a nominal GDP figure that is now, according to our current knowledge, 2000 billion from 2019. So obviously, the vast majority of macro numbers cannot be predicted, and we have never succeeded. However, there is a mechanism in place where the basic deficit is always met without an additional budget, with the reorganization of the budget, with the freezing of certain resources, with some re-allocations, without any additional budget being imposed, and then there is always a significant amount of reserve. Thus, this reserve is still a basis for correcting and, on the other hand, creating free resources. With regard to economic growth, I think that this idea is too optimistic, which expects economic growth of around 4 per cent for the next period as well. Of course, you can say right now that, but in the first quarter, economic growth was 5.3 percent, and why would I say that? However, if you look at economic growth, how it came about, what it consists of, then you can see that in the first quarter the performance of the construction industry increased by 48 percent, which, by the way, means that, taking into account its 7.6 percent share, this alone resulted in 3.6 percent of total economic growth. A similar figure can be said for. 18, and the construction industry increased by 22 percent in 18, and given its 8 percent share, about 2 percentage points of the then 5 percent economic growth was due to him. This is problematic in itself, as there is a construction bubble in this economy, which is also now published in a real estate bubble, but also overestimates the growth number. It is overrated because the investments in the construction sector are individual investments and therefore their pricing cannot be monitored, so it does not consist of the prices and price indices of sub-performances or parts, but rather in a completely different way, taking into account the wide supply chain, several studies have already found that they are overpriced. In fact, there is no economic growth in Hungary today as much as they show, less than that, and I think that this is closer to 3 percent than 5 percent. But this is still high compared to the potential growth rate of the Hungarian economy. Minister Varga also boasted with this figure that we have the highest growth rate in the European Union, 5.3 percent, but he forgot to boast that another figure came out, where we are also at the top of the list, if not in the first place, but at least in the second place, and this is inflation. In Romania there was 4.4 percent inflation in the first quarter, in Hungary there was 4 percent inflation, with an EU average of 1.6 percent. What's that supposed to mean? It refers to the fact that we have an economy that is very heavily overheated at the moment and I will have a few more words about it later. As far as deficit and debt are concerned, the general government deficit does indeed continue with this three-part deficit indicator, operating costs, investment and the EU, which amounts to 1.5 per cent, but according to the ESA 2010 methodology there is only a 1 per cent general government deficit, which is indeed a commendable thing. The structural deficit is slightly higher, but is not fully consistent with the medium-term deficit target set out in the Convergence Programme. This was mentioned by both speakers, i.e. the SAO report, and also mentioned by the Fiscal Council. But this is indeed not in the order of magnitude that would require some substantial amendment. From the point of view of debt GDP developments, we can even welcome the fact that next year, if all is true, 65.5 percent will be the debt-GDP ratio, and this whole story started from over 80 percent, so it decreased by 15 percentage points. Just to this story, you should always consider or count on the fact that Hungary received 45 per cent of EU funding on an annual basis after 2010, i.e. a 45 per cent surplus. In addition, 10 percent of private pension funds were also used as a percentage of GDP and half of the central bank reserve, which is also 5 percent in proportion to GDP. If we add these together, we can see that more than 50 per cent of the surplus has come in, and a 15 per cent debt reduction is not such a very big story that we could be so terribly proud of. Technically, any other government could have done that. [[13.00]] Here was the great fortune... [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] The Hungarian economy is now living on a surplus, so the Hungarian economy is inefficient, that is, it is not able to produce an adequate surplus, but the only good thing that it could do this from an EU source compared to 2010 is that it was not available before, and the Gyurcsány governments were indebted to the country, moving it from 53 percent to 80 percent, that is undoubtedly true (interjection from the ranks of the governing parties). ) This is undoubtedly true, but the other half is also true that we do not have an economy now that is truly productive. Employment. It is quite optimistic that a 1.3 percent increase in employment will be achieved. This, I think, is only possible if more and more migrant workers are admitted, and there are signs of this. Productivity is 2.7 percent rather optimistic. If you look at the convergence programme between 2019 and 23, what you can see is that the nominal increase in earnings is 10-11 percent, if inflation is 34 percent, then this means that there will be an increase in real earnings of 5-6 percent, perhaps 7 percent, in these years. This is very nice, this is very commendable, but to this we add that there is only a productivity increase of around 3 per cent planned, i.e. every year there is a 3 per cent increase in demand and demand pressure on this side alone, right, so more wages will flow out in real terms than the actual production of products, so there is still a demand pressure in this economy, which, by the way, will obviously boost inflation in the future, in addition to the current 4 per cent inflation. It's a matter of taxes, taxation. I think that the concept of improving competitiveness by reducing taxes has failed. Yes, I was one of the Members who did not vote in favour of the Socho, and I did not vote in favour of the Socho because I think that in order to vote for it, we should perhaps say that there is a way to say that we will cover the loss of resources in order to keep social care at an adequate level. Moreover, I do not think that this could be such a big profit for small and medium-sized enterprises, since the fundamental problem in the Hungarian economy is not that it is over-taxed, but rather that the value added content is very little, very low. And I find it extremely immoral that there is no discretionary income for anyone with a minimum wage and a million or two million earners, because you must understand that those who have a hundred thousand forints' salary have no discretionary income, cannot decide what to give up, as the spending of money is determined, while there is much more freedom than 1-2 million forints. Not to mention its 9% growth, which is particularly favourable to large capital and maintains the status of a colonial country, will continue to make Hungary a colloquial assembly plant instead of making it a catching-up country. Let us see that the countries with the highest tax rates are the most competitive to see Sweden, Denmark or Finland. So we are definitely on the wrong track when we think that foreign capital should be drawn here in this way, so that competitiveness can be developed. No. This may work in the short term, but it preserves our colonial destiny and our situation. With regard to R &amp; D expenditure: I am glad that HUF 32 billion more money is involved, but the Minister forgot to tell us how R &amp; D spending will then be made in proportion to GDP. It's still about 1.5 percent, I mean, in the Scandinavian countries, it's 4 percent. So I'd be happy if we could raise the 32 billion over 2 percent, not an excessive amount, and then I didn't tell you what they're going to use it for, what kind of research network they're going to use it for. I would like to conclude with the establishment of the Fiscal Council. Today, the foundations of the Hungarian economy are stable, and this is worth mentioning so that we can see it later. Well, the fact is that they are not, in fact, not stable, because today's Hungarian economy is capable of a potential growth rate of 1-2 percent, and this is boosted to 4 percent. This does not imply that it is not possible to maintain 4 per cent of economic growth, it can be maintained, if 4 per cent of EU resources continue to come in every year, if foreign businesses continue to generate 25 to 30 per cent of GDP if they produce 80 per cent of exports, if additional Hungarian people go abroad and work there, if we have the same number of guest workers and if we withdraw additional resources from health, education and rural development. It is therefore sustainable, but maintaining all these means that Hungary will continue to go to a dead end, from which it will be very, very painful to step back and come back from, but we cannot lose the time to return, which will happen very soon. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-19-28	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now, the two speakers invited by the committee representing Hungarian minorities will present the Committee's position within a total of 20 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to a German national representative, Imre Ritter, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language, and then translates it into Hungarian.
u2019-06-19-29	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/6322. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen erörtere. Wie es schon gewöhnt ist wenn es gesagt werden kann fange ich meinen Diskussionsbeitrag mit einem Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe an. Er hat gesagt:., Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the central budget for 2020 T/6322. Bill No. 1 concerning the parts of the legislation concerning the needs of the nationalities. My comment to the draft budget law, if you can say so, has now traditionally started with the quote by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, which reads in Hungarian: "The tolerance can only mark a temporary state, which should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Accepting is therefore not enough; only acceptance is an insult in itself. We want more, we expect more: recognition! Our ancestors' lives provide a sufficient basis for recognition, and we are still working for it, a condition of recognition, a basis of knowledge. Therefore, allow me to start with a brief reflection on the position of the nationalities living in Hungary at the beginning of the last cycle, what and how we have been able to move forward in the last five years, where we are today, what goals we have, what tasks we need to solve to achieve them, because without having sufficient knowledge of them, it is not possible to assess the past years or the national needs relating to the central budget for 2020 in a realistic way, to address them and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. Nearly five years ago, at the closure of the 2013 central budget, I started by saying that this first minority Parliamentary contribution should have taken place here in the Hungarian Parliament more than twenty years earlier, so that we should eliminate almost two decades of failure in every respect as soon as possible. [[13.10]] Then, for minutes, it was possible and had to be marked as to the conditions under which nationalities living in Hungary have been forced to live and operate for decades. As an example and as a reminder, the so-called NMZ frameworks available for the operational support of national minority civil society organisations, to support national cultural programmes, have not changed from 2002 to 2014 and did not cover a fraction of the incoming needs, 10-15 percent. Secondly, the annual budget of HUF 30 million at the time for native school camps was so low compared to the needs that there was virtually no point in applying either. On the basis of one child, the framework was enough for two dumplings of ice cream a day. Thirdly, the annual operating support of municipal self-governments was on average HUF 222 thousand gross, corresponding to HUF 14 500 per month net. Fourthly, the economic, financial and administrative costs of national minority self-governments continued to increase without increasing subsidies, with changes in public finance legislation and the various legal requirements. In summary, it should be said that until 2013, the support of nationalities living in Hungary was in a deplorable state, and this is still a very fine expression of the actual situation at the time. However, there have been positive positive changes from 2013 onwards. On the one hand, the most important and positive change in 2013 from a nationality point of view was, without doubt, the fact that the support for the national minority public education institutions maintained by the national authorities increased significantly and became normative. Legal opportunities have been opened for the development of cultural and educational autonomy in nationality. Secondly, with the 2014 parliamentary elections, Parliament's representation was granted to 13 Hungarian nationalities, which opened up new opportunities and a new period for us. The first serious result of Parliament's representation was that we were able to achieve a breakthrough in the 2015 Central Budget Act by increasing the support of less than HUF 4 billion previously and, for many years, unchanged by around HUF 2 billion, by more than 50 percent. As a combined effect over the last five years, we have been able to achieve substantial improvements in the following areas. On the one hand, we have raised the operating and cultural support funding framework of national minority NGOs from HUF 110 million to HUF 500 million, i.e. significantly more than fourfold. Secondly, we were able to raise the current 30 million forints, or 13 times the current 30 million for minority native language student camps. I would add that we have always, everywhere and in every situation, treated the mother tongue student camps as a top priority, and even this framework covers only part of the objective, realistic needs. I'll talk to you about that later. Thirdly, we have doubled the overall operating support of local ethnic authorities by fourfold, the so-called task-based differentiated support framework. Fourthly, we were able to raise the support of the institutions maintained by national minority authorities and national minority media and national minority authorities in 2015, 2017 and 2019; this made the most pressing financing problems of operation manageable. Fifthly, we have been able to provide a complementary support framework of several individual decisions in important areas such as support for ethnic theatres, complementary support for local minority self-governments receiving the maintenance of nationality institutions and receiving national minority public education institutions. Finally, what is particularly important for the future is that in the 2015 budget, a new title system has been opened to ensure the investment, renovation and participation framework of ethnic public education and cultural institutions operating in the maintenance of minority self-governments and associations. Even at this point in the general debate of the 2017 Central Budget Act, I concluded by saying that, after all these extremely joyful, long-awaited positive changes, we think that this is a moment where we must thank you without reservation for all the problems, tasks and tensions that undoubtedly exist; and that is what I am doing now. On behalf of the nationalities living in Hungary, I would like to thank the Hungarian Government, of course, but the entire Hungarian Parliament, all the Members of Parliament, for their ethnic support over the last five years. However, in addition to the specific figures, these increases should be managed and evaluated in place by a full review of the situation of nationalities in Hungary. On the one hand, who looks at the very positive changes in nationality in recent years, figures and percentages, and only knows them, you see, it is right to suggest that the nationalities living in Hungary have received a significant increase in support of the general increase in the budget in recent years; and in this respect they are undoubtedly right, both God and you. On the other hand, who has a comprehensive view of the situation of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, the whole process, the content behind the numbers, how deep we started to maintain our mother tongue, identity, traditions, transfer or rather return to our children, the extent to which we are in the last hour, it also knows that the last five years have been enough to hold on, to get faith again, and to start with a new impetus on that path, to launch long-term programmes that can ensure the survival of indigenous nationalities living in Hungary. The consultation and understanding of these two points of view, opinions and the establishment of an appropriate consensus have also been a feature of the process of reconciliation of national needs for 2019 and the current draft central budget laws for 2020. In the draft central budget law for 2020, Roma subsidies were transferred to the 14th century. The Ministry of Interior, and the other 12 nationalities, the XI. They're in the Prime Minister's Office chapter. The budget needs of Hungarian nationalities in 2020 were drawn up on the basis of extremely detailed and thorough surveys and analyses. We have already negotiated with national national minority self-governments, spokespersons, discussions with the parliamentary factions and the purses responsible for nationalities are ongoing. On this basis, the 13 Hungarian nationalities intend to submit a total of HUF 10 billion amendment to the 2020 budget proposal, of which the Roma nationality adjustment requirement is HUF 1.8 billion. This will be discussed by Vice President Felix Wolf. The other 12 nationalities need a change of HUF 8.2 billion in the following areas of focus. One: more than half of the aid increase needs are precisely 56 percent of HUF 4.6 billion for accumulation, investment and support, which is used to ensure the investment, renovation and tendering part of the building and construction stock of the national authorities and the institutions they maintain. Second, 16 per cent of the support needs are the third step of the national minority educator programme launched in 2018 in 2020, according to which the maximum percentage of the minority pedagogist bonus will be raised and differentiated from 30 per cent to 40 per cent, and from 1 September 2020 all six years of the minority educator, teacher and teacher students will be included in the minority educator scholarship scheme. All this means HUF 1 billion 315 million. [[13.20]] Here I am pleased to inform the House that, over the past six months, it has been developed with the involvement of all the parties involved, and even the piloting of a complete survey material has been carried out to fully assess the needs of the national minority educator, the actual situation, the shortage, the training for all nationalities, all maintenance and all types of ethnic schools. We have never had such a survey in Hungary before. I'll talk about this in more detail in the next two days. As a third area: in the 2020 budget, we propose an increase of HUF 734 million for national minority authorities and media as well as their reserved institutions, which is 9 percent of the total demand. Fourthly, 7 percent of the demands, 600 million HUF for ethnic associations, organisations and schools, are needed to further increase the ethnic tender framework. Finally, we want to increase the operating support of local ethnic authorities by HUF 592 million, which is nearly 7 percent of the total demand. I will explain all these points in detail and their merits in detail in the next two days, but, of course, I would like to ask for the support of all the factions today to accept the 2020 ethnic needs in Hungary. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-30	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Félix Farkas, a Roma minority advocate, who will give his speech on the pulpit.
u2019-06-19-31	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the T/6322 on Hungary's central budget for 2020. I therefore thank the House Committee for declaring the bill a nationality item and for the fact that the rapporteur has already proposed that it be discussed as such. The committee put the bill on the agenda at its meeting on 11 June 2019, held the debate on the proposal and formulated the Committee's opinion, with 13 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against, also unanimously decided to hold a detailed debate on the bill under the House Rules Rule 32. § 2 of the bill as a whole. Since Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's government formation in 2010, minorities have become nationalities, minimal budget subsidies have increased, and since 2010, almost tripled. In the draft central budget law for 2019 a year ago, support from local and national self-governments remained in Annex 9, but the amount of aid was broken down for each appropriation. Annex XI is amended as follows: As regards the 12 nationalities, the amount of the aid was entered in the section of the Prime Minister's Office and Article XX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Ministry of Human Resources has left the amount of Roma subsidies in the chapter. The grants under the ministerial authority, entitled "Supports of nationalities" and "Support of nationalities institutions for investment and renewal" have also been transferred to Section XI. Prime Minister's Office chapter. Two ministries and two ministers were therefore responsible for the national minority policy in Hungary. In the central budget for next year, Hungarian Roma grants will also be re-established, as from 1 May 2019 the support from the central budget of the Roma has been placed under the auspices of the Ministry of Human Capacities instead of the Ministry of Human Capacities. Accordingly, the amendment proposals of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities should already be submitted in such a way that Roma subsidies are included separately in its amendment proposal. First of all, let me say that nationalities living in Hungary and so the Roma can unite their communities at local level, so it is particularly important that local and regional ethnic authorities function satisfactorily. In order to ensure the application of individual and Community rights laid down in the National Rights Act, to express the interests of nationalities, in particular the care, maintenance and enhancement of the mother tongue, as well as to ensure and preserve the cultural autonomy of nationalities by the national authorities. In order to carry out these tasks independently, and in order to create the organisational, personnel and material conditions necessary for the performance of the tasks, all ethnic authorities need sufficient financial support in the form of operational and task-based support, as does the national minority self-government, which brings together local minority self-governments. Secondly, I would like to inform you that, with the rise in Roma national minority applications, more local minority self-governments and national minority associations and foundations can implement camps and cultural programmes for the growing generation, but on the basis of the continuous feedback, a higher amount of funding is needed than the present one. For the Hungarian, nearly eight hundred thousand Roma community, raising the amount of the current and planned tender framework for next year could be one of the possibilities of catching up, as young people can understand learning through the camping of our children, language education in camps, identity strengthening and real cultural programmes, thus the need for catching up, and we can thus transfer the cultural values and language that we have inherited. As a third point, the amount allocated to support institutions maintained by the National Roma Municipality is the same as in the draft law on next year's budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The institutional framework was established after its establishment, broken down into institutions in all municipalities. [[The president's ringing again.]] At ORÖ there are currently six institutions: employment network, media centre, mission, sports center and two schools...
u2019-06-19-32	Speaker, your time is up.
u2019-06-19-33	Yes, thank you. There's not much left. Half a minute.
u2019-06-19-34	Excuse me, that would be way beyond the time frame. Tell me the last sentence, please.
u2019-06-19-35	Good. I believe that as a minority parliamentary advocate, we have been able to achieve with consistent and fair work, my fellow speakers and the committee that all the factions of the Hungarian Parliament and all their representatives voted unanimously on the legislative amendments tabled by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, and I therefore express my gratitude. I ask you to do the same now, to accept the budget, along with the national changes. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-36	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The first independent Member to apply may now speak to him. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett.
u2019-06-19-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond briefly to the statement by the President of the State Audit Office, because I believe it is important that we address such fundamental issues regarding the budget. Mr President has said and I see that he is no longer in the room, so I am addressing my question to Mr Secretary of State, that he considers the huge increase in reserves to be a step forward, with which our country can prepare for a possible global economic downturn. At the same time, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that it is not rather what the opposition has said that there may be a crack in a CSOK balloon, and they are creating such a reserve, but they do not wish to admit it in advance. I would like you to account for these dangers, and that it is not in vain that the alarm bells will be shaken by virtually the opposition as a whole. [[13.30]] The following is a general concern that I would like to express about the budget, and then I will give you and you some details. My general concern, along with the Hungarian Liberal Party, is that despite the economic growth above the EU average, we see that there is insufficient resources for humanity and human dignity. Why do I say that? Although the budget for the education system is expanding by HUF 48 billion, this will bring a decrease of 0.3 percentage points compared to the 2019 budget, so as we move forward in time, we will see that education is becoming less and less important for the Hungarian government. This is particularly dramatic in terms of higher education institutions, which, if we look at them, are not only affected by a percentage by the draft budget for next year, but also numerically. Although I assume that this may also be due to the foundational reservation or to higher education institutions that are partially converted to foundational reservation, we are not yet clear about their budget, so I am concerned about this fact. Minister said in his exposé that the wage arrangements for health workers and civil servants are in the process, but it must be added that at the moment there are health workers who do not have the guaranteed minimum wage, so in this sense it is just a wage adjustment. And why am I talking about increased wages in the competitive sector? At the moment, not regardless of the fact that hundreds of thousands of our compatriots have left the Hungarian labour market, wages have increased, but public workers have a very small share of this, and the very least of these economic growth is done by those public workers who are the ones who serve us most, who teach our children, who cure the sick and those who perform superhuman service in the social sectors; simply because the current systems need structural restructuring and more funding. It is certainly true what Secretary of State Rétvári says that we have managed to involve young people in this profession, and there are many nurses among the twenty-year-olds, but it is very talkative that the staff will wear sandglasses, because the 30s and 40s are almost entirely absent from the beds. I can explain this, or I think I can discover behind this process that, simply when a family is established, in many cases even those who have worked in health care have to leave their jobs because of their low wages. I think that this needs to be responded to in a budget that is otherwise managed by an increase in GDP of almost 5%. So now it would be time to focus on tackling the serious problems faced by crisis sectors, and to look to the future with courage and confidence. The sectors that should focus on people and humanity, how healthy this country will be in the future, are the very sectors that are left out of this GDP growth. At the moment, the Hungarians can expect much less years in health than our level of economic development. The Czechs, Slovaks and Poles have also been able to adapt their health to the needs of their country or society at least as far as their level of economic development is concerned. I think that if these data are not responded by a central budget and a government that is otherwise proud of the economic growth it has achieved in recent years, there is a serious problem with this. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] There are concerns regarding the National Security Fund and the allocation of extraordinary government measures. When we talk about how both education, health and social sectors are victims of this budget, it is difficult to understand how HUF 378 billion can be obtained from the National Security Fund. With all due respect, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to take a special look at this, because we do not see the justification for the current situation for the fact that the National Defence Fund has such an increase in the amount of the budget. That in the current budget it is only HUF 60 billion, that basically means that in the next year, multiples will be on this fund. We also need to talk about our international economic partners and our foreign policy approach. The fact that the central budget contains a HUF 140 billion line of business with virtually revisionist superpowers, and the Paks II investment is carried out by Russia in Putin, and the Communist China is implementing the Budapest-Belgrád railway line in Hungary does not merely pose a national security risk, but also raises very serious questions on the economic and social side, just because we have basically started to leave the transparent and democratic economies of the Western world, and we have shifted our attention to the economic partnership of countries where there is virtually uncountable flow of black money. Unfortunately, I can see that this is also the direction the processes are going in Hungary today. I find it very wrong that the central budget contains such an item for these investments and that we are dealing with these economic partners. Speaking of damaged democracies and cooperation with dictatorships in different forms, I would like to note that we are spending almost HUF 25 billion on the Liget project, which is a direct consequence of the Prime Minister's move to Castle and the need to move various institutions from here. I believe that when the opposition has tried to identify various sources in the fight to increase home care fees, for example, the Liget project resources are sufficient for more than a year to ensure the dignity of both home care providers and home care providers. This is true, in general, of the current draft before us, that it is not usually important to support human dignity or the fallen. Minister, he spoke about pensions and the fact that pensioners are beneficiaries of next year's budget, while maintaining the real value of pensions for the masses only guarantees that they will remain in poverty. Because the minimum pension is HUF 28 500, or because, according to a recent study, there are pensioners in Békés County whose income per day is less than $4 per day, which means the level of poverty in Africa, I think that even if there are groups among Hungarian pensioners who benefit otherwise, we cannot talk about the fact that Hungarian pensioners are beneficiaries of the budget. It would be very important that, like public workers, they are able to share in the economic growth that, as you have said and proudly said, is above the EU average. Minister mentioned the Pension Insurance Fund, and we heard it say that the system is stable, sustainable, but this is not true in this form, according to the Hungarian Liberal Party. We say that a stable and sustainable pension system can be created in a country facing the problem of an ageing society if there are private pension funds with a state guarantee and this is not denied by the government, but is strongly encouraged. I think that the nationalisation of the HUF 3000 billion pension assets and what has been happening in the pension system since then point specifically in the direction that we are going to break away from our fellow Western Europeans in this matter, we will not be able to learn from them that there, by the way, twenty-year-olds are encouraged to start taking responsibility for their future pension and start saving their future pension according to their wallets and salaries. I am saying this because we are in the year of the Family Protection Action Plan, which you believe is a good way to achieve a demographic change in our country, but I think that you know that, and we in the benches of the opposition know that this is almost impossible. Ratko children are already retired, and the children of Ratko children are leaving their parents' age. This means that even if the fertility rate can be increased with little or no value, it will still be very difficult to prevent our ageing chorus, and probably will not succeed. That is why I am arguing that pensions should not be preserved in this way, as you do, my honourable pro-government Members, because the preservation of the real value of pensions, once again, is only enough for the masses to be oppressed. [[13.40]] To save the pensioners of the future from this situation and from the exposure that the unsolved state pension system brings to them, it is essential to have individual responsibility, individual pension accounts, and also to be explicitly encouraged by the state with a state guarantee. So I think that there is nothing to be afraid of in this case, just as, let us say, I think the same in the health system about the multi-insurance system, but I would like to go further with the central budget. I think it's a further problem with the family protection plan that you don't pay attention to the needy principle. I stressed in the debate on the Family Protection Action Plan that the Poles, for example, had created a income barrier above which this support could not be used, and by decapitating this social pyramid, the social groups in real need, for whom it is really important that the state help them, whether in creating homes or in moving to larger homes, could do so much better. I think that there should be at least such a transformation of the family protection action plan in Hungary. My fellow Members also spoke about the importance of the transformation of grandparents' children. I would really like to translate just one sentence to him in the budget debate. I myself believe that it is very important to involve already retired grandparents in this programme. In this situation, they could really help young families. Why am I saying this? In today's Hungary, supply systems are also insufficient. Cradle seats are not sufficient to ensure the flexibility of young families, especially young mothers, in the dynamic reintegration into the labour market. This basically means that, based on a recent statistics, 88,000 children in Hungary today do not have a nursery space, and the result is that 80,000 people who would like to return to the world of work cannot. I made a short calculation that the current central budget will spend HUF 43.5 billion on nursery development and construction of a new nursery. A greenfield nursery investment is a cost of 300-400 million forints. If I count less expensive nursery constructions, 130 of these nurserys can be created by magnitude. Compared with the 88,000 children left without a nursery, I'd like to ask you how you've seen a nursery where 676 children go. I think that the advantage of these institutions is that they can look after children in small groups. What is important is that we help local governments with a much higher amount of help to improve their crèche seats, and the last thing we need is that there has been a significant shortage of workers here, not only in kindergarten nurses, but also in daycare nurses. So this also requires a solution. The Hungarian Liberal Party will also present a proposal to amend the budget in this case. As the last subject, I would like to mention that business development and tax reductions can be basically a step forward. It is very important that we also pay attention to our competitiveness indicators, because while we are at the forefront of our economic growth at the moment, this is not exactly the case at regional level with our competitiveness indicators. It is very important to note that the sectors that I have been talking about are suffering from a huge shortage of labour, not only of nursery schools, but also of kindergartens, not only hospitals, but also schools. This emigration will not stop until the public wage arrangement is real. I am aware, of course, that you will not be able to achieve the wages of the competition sector, but I also know that those working in these sectors typically have a sense of professionalism that if they can provide their children with a worthy and decent childhood and a good leisure activity in addition to their profession, I think that their profession will still mean a full life for them. But to do so, the current pay table is far too low, and the fact that not only does their appreciation not show up in this, but also what our hospitals look like, that in many cases, which my fellow Members have already talked about, unfortunately, they are going into moldy nurses' rooms, unfortunately we saw doctors sleeping under the stairs in the press the other day. I think that in this sense it is not possible to talk about the availability of sufficient resources for the healthcare system or even for the social care system at the moment. Finally, after the questions and concerns, I would like to share with you a very specific and detailed proposal, which the Hungarian Liberal Party will also submit as a proposal amending the budget law, but this requires a change in the use of increased Tao resources. We recommend introducing a taoframe that can be used for hobby sports. This would have the advantage of helping public institutions, schools that otherwise have a useful sports infrastructure, so that in the dead time these gymnasiums and school schools can be used by people who, by their income situation, do not have or have very little access to sports. Why would that be important? I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that the number of Hungarians' health years is below our level of economic development. It would be very important to be able to eliminate the social divide in this country, and I think that with this very simple and otherwise very fast package of proposals that we are going to present, we can at least begin to eliminate the dimension of the social divide in which people in worse financial situations are in worse health, quite simply because health-preservation mechanisms are less accessible to them. I am very confident that the amendments we have tabled will please you, and now I thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-19-38	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2019-06-19-39	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank my fellow pro-government Members, the lead speakers who are still in this Chamber, for their response to the leadership. Since then, some of the Hungarian press has gone through the amazing statement of why opposition representatives do not apologize if a figure is proved to be true, its expectation that it will not be achieved, and this statement has given rise to a very strange atmosphere typical of the sixties to the debate. But I do not want to go into this growing and personal debate, I would modestly note that, in terms of inflation expectations, it has occurred two times in recent fiscal years, not in terms of official forecasting, but in terms of the government's expectation that the final figure has unfortunately become higher. And in terms of the increase in the number of 800 000 jobs, we also have a continuous debate on the fact that I do not think that this 800 000 increase meets the statistics, as student workers, part of the emigrated Hungarians and some of the public workers are included in all of this. So in this way, if we clean up this distorted statistics, it will come out that this data is unfortunately less. I would also like to say that there is another indicator where unfortunately the government's calculations did not work, this is the fertility rate, which has fallen from 1,54 percent to 1.49 percent, unfortunately. Let's be kind, and let's just take this as a halt. I am very confident that the increase will be able to reboot, but I am confident that the opposition is always wrong in terms of all indicators, but the government is doing everything right, because in my position it is wrong, because in the not-so-exemplary certificate, if we could agree, I would be able to support the resolution proposals together if, after a confession that there is a problem on the demographic front, if I heard this from a pro-government representative and put down a proposal for a solution, my vote in this area would surely be on the table. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-19-40	Thank you, Congressman. I would just like to tell Mr Imre Ritter, a representative of nationality, that we cannot give time now, because today's agenda is on a time-frame, and therefore there is no longer a two-minute window for you under the house rules. That's what I wanted to say. [[13.50]] We will continue with regular time frame comments. Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2019-06-19-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary of State! Madam Secretary! Fellow Members! I have the pleasure of first getting the opportunity from the government side to comment somewhat on the opposition speakers' speech. Of course, there have also been speeches on the part of opposition representatives that support a meaningful debate, but now allow me to take some of the things that I would like to reject on behalf of the ruling parties. Let me begin by saying that it would have been an honor to argue with the former Prime Minister in some respects, I regret that he is not here, because he has made a number of statements here in Parliament, which reminds me most of the saying about the Bourbons that he has not learned anything and has not forgotten anything; fortunately for our pro-government representatives, because for us Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech is perhaps inspiring, always confirms why we are working and fighting, even in the field. It may be a little frustrating for my fellow opposition Members that, despite all their work, he is now the leading representative of the opposition. In any case, I would like to reject two of your statements very briefly. One may have said that we are afraid of the Union, we are afraid of the control of the Union in this budget. Perhaps he was trying to refer here to the introduction of the euro, it was not clear enough. However, I would like to recall that the EU has control, which is called Maastricht criteria, which are used to judge a budget. He may not have had anything to fear at the time, if I remember correctly, during his administration, the lack of public finances moved somewhere around 10 percent, and the bureaucrats in Brussels had him, since he otherwise served them in a serene manner, and they did not even call him or initiate proceedings for such deficits under his government. So he did not have control in some respects, but the current budget and budgets of previous years do have a control in Brussels, but there is nothing to fear the current government in this regard, because these criteria have been met since Fidesz-KDNP led this country. We have been excluded from the proceedings, and Hungary has one of the most stable budgets in Brussels. So we have the criteria, and we are not afraid of them in Brussels. Let me also reject your statement, because you may not have read it deep enough that you do not have a vision of this budget. Well, there is the biggest vision of this budget, which is about Hungarian families. It is about giving this country the opportunity to do so for all those who want to have children and who cannot or cannot do it for any financial reason. This is the Hungarian future. If there are no Hungarian children, no Hungarian children are born, then there is no Hungarian future. This budget is about us believing that Hungarian families and Hungarian children are the future, which we would like to present through the budget and provide an opportunity. But to respond not only to Ferenc Gyurcsány's statements, I would also like to reflect very briefly on the suggestion of our fellow Member, Antal Csárdi LMP. Unfortunately, he is no longer here, but I would like to highlight a single moment in his speech. He once brought it here, not criticizing health care, that it is best for Hungarian citizens to remain healthy. At the same time, in his next sentence, he criticized why we spend so much on sport. Please, we can demonstrate with millions of numbers that the money spent on Hungarian sports is for sports children, replacements and movement, which is the best health preserver. I'm sorry, this is a budget debate, but let me say this, and if I get criticism for this, I'll have the pleasure of running a relatively medium-sized sports club. We tripled the number of children playing sports there from the Taós sources there, and in BVSC today 2,500 children play sports instead of 700 children in 2010-11. These are exactly the sources, the forints that are devoted to health preservation or health preservation. Let me reject one more thing: Head of the Szabó Timea Group said that I cannot understand the fact that the government is punishing Budapest. I would also like to reject this as a representative in Budapest, and I will also allow myself to claim that no government has ever dealt so much with Budapest, never a single government has provided so much resources for the development of Budapest. From the framework of the, Healthy Budapest, we could also talk about road construction and resources for public institutions through public participation in public transport in Budapest. Budapest has never received so much money, so it is one of the most prominent settlements of government policy in this regard. Let us not talk about the fact that for the first time Budapest has an independent development institution within the framework of KKBK, who are very consciously and planned to develop the plans of our beloved capital. After that, I would like to talk about what the government's budget for the next year, submitted on 4 June, really means. Once again, he focused primarily on the future, the Hungarian families, and set himself the goal of Hungary's ability to demonstrate the strengthening that Hungary has shown in recent years, and people can actually live in their everyday lives, and they can convert this into small money, if they like, and the budget leaves many, many billions of HUF in Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. If I had to recap it very briefly, perhaps, but perhaps also a little individually, not going into the details, because a lot has been said, I wrote to myself in ten points that it is really very simple what this budget is doing, what it supports, and why we can say, one by one, that yes, this is what the government helps, and why we say that the budget is good. Because if we ask the question of encouraging and appreciating the work of this budget, the work of Hungarian people, those who live on wages and salaries, then it must be said that yes, this budget appreciates it. If the question of how the budget would otherwise balance the economy and reduce public debt, our answer is clearly that yes, this budget is a budget for the reduction of balance and of government debt. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] If the question of whether this budget supports economic growth and investment, the answer is clearly based on the number of budgets: yes, this budget supports economic growth and investment. If the question is that this budget helps Hungarian families raising their children, the answer is that yes, this budget helps the financial situation of Hungarian families. If the question of simplifying and reducing the burden on domestic businesses is this budget, then the answer is also clearly that yes, it will continue the way that the Hungarian economy has done, reduces and simplifies the lives of businesses, especially small businesses, in this regard last year. If the simple question is to provide more money for health care, the answer is to provide more money for health than in previous years. If the question of spending more money on education in this budget is clearly: yes, we are spending more money on education. If the question that has triggered many debates on other items on the agenda is that more money for R &amp; D and innovation is being spent on this budget in 2020, then it is clear from the budget figures to everyone that they will receive more money for R &amp; D and innovation in 2020. [[14.00]] If the question of supporting small settlements and remaining in small settlements is supported by this budget, then it is clearly supported through the village programme. If the question, returning to what I mentioned, is that this budget is helping Budapest's development, then the answer is clearly also as a Budapester. That's only ten yeses, but I could list more here. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I can encourage everyone to support the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-19-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-19-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I have the task of pointing out, by the way, in the ninth budgetary debate, in the chapters of the Ministry of Agriculture and the former Ministry of Rural Development, the points which Jobbik believes would definitely need to be supplemented, and I would also like to talk about some specific amendments which, I believe, are suitable for improving the problems in this area, even by adopting a pan-European approach. It is perhaps important to start by saying that most of this chapter is not shown financially here in the budget, because I am talking about agriculture and rural development in a specific area, the resources of which are available to those affected, are mainly EU funds, since we have a common agricultural policy. So these are not visible in the Hungarian budget, at most in terms of the own contribution. However, it is worth some thought to talk about these resources, even because they have an impact on the budget currently under discussion. The current part of the common agricultural policy expires in 2020. The impact of this on the Hungarian budget will practically disappear in this form. It would be good if the budget for 2020 already negotiated in 2019 included additional burdens in this context, since, although the programme will be completed in 2020, even the most optimal estimates will assume only the start of the new common agricultural policy in 2022, but rather in 23 years. So there will definitely be two or three transitional years. The negotiations are now at a level where the normal introduction is given a zero-percent chance, and even Hungarian experts who are experienced in this area offer a 1-percent chance of a one-year slippage and regularly go to Brussels to negotiate on this matter. So we can say that it is indeed necessary to prepare for a number of transitional years, which is not included in this budget. This means that the actors in agriculture and those targeted at rural development resources will all feel this transitional year. It is not a small amount of money, since it would be necessary to replace support equivalent to HUF 500-600 billion per year in areas where transitional years are still questionable and uncertain. Speaking of the CAP, we should also mention that there is a change of logic, which implies a greater contribution from the nation states, a greater part of themselves, greater assistance. Nor can we find the feet of this, these resources, in this budget, which further undermines the chances that, let us say, this transitional period will take place undetected for those affected. However, there is a 15 percent reduction in the future, which means the possibility of involving external resources. In such a way, we should at least increase the contribution of the nation state, but we are not seeing this increase, but we are seeing significant backwards in some areas compared to last year. Now I'd like to move on to, say, how you explain this, how you're trying to sell it to the people concerned in advance. This is also closely linked to the budget, as you have started a large-scale collection of signatures, not even the government here, but in a difficult way from the government, perhaps you will forgive me if I bring you here the Chamber of Agriculture and Magos, where farmers were expected to sign a petition in which you named the pressure on migration and the spending of money on Brussels migrants as the main sinner in terms of why the funds will be reduced. However, this is a rather cheap and transparent trick to try to pin the above-mentioned reductions on someone else. It's absurd and unacceptable to think people are so stupid. Because of the Brexit and many other factors, these resources will indeed be reduced, but, as I have already said, there would be an opportunity to replace it with national powers. This assumption is absurd because, for example, last year alone, in last year's budget, you spent more than 14 billion forints on dealing with migration. It could also be said that because of the Hungarian government's migration management source and transfer, there was not enough money in these areas, while we all know that obviously this money also had its role and place. And I don't want to judge you, but the logic is that that's what you're saying about reducing resources, it's completely absurd. Or if I look at it, for example, in this budget, the National Directorate-General for Foreign Police has named it plus HUF 1000 million more, but I would not argue that standing up here, I would accuse you that this HUF 1000 million is missing, let's say, from the Hungarian countryside. It is missing, because when we say that, after Bulgaria, our country is now practically the poorest country in the European Union, it is even more disproportionate if we compare rural regions. I hate to give an example to countries with more fortunate historical developments, but for example Austria is worth mentioning here next door, where until the mid-1980s, the difference between the Austrian countryside and cities was the same in scale as the current Hungarian states and the Hungarian states ten years ago. Yet they were able to shape their own and EU resources, spending it so that this difference has now disappeared, not only has it disappeared, but it has practically become a prestige issue in the countryside, and it symbolizes a quality in the neighbourhood, while living in the village is still practically a symbol of hopelessness in many regions. Moving a little to the lines within the specific chapter here. The issue of the National Food Chain Security Office is a recurring problem every year. The area is underfunded at a level that virtually human resources are fleeing from here. This is how we get to the point that we've been through a strawberry scandal this year, for example, but we've got them standing in front of us almost weekly, as the fruits get in, and there's another scandal. Nébih's technical and human resources are not enough to combat this, so we are definitely proposing a more serious transfer here, as we have done in previous years. In the case of stud farms, and in the case of the national horse programme at all, I have to say again that, although in communication, we are always proud of and proud of the fact that we are a horse nation. But if we scratch the surface, for example, I would draw attention to the simple fact that in Slovakia, let's say, a greater percentage of society can ride and bind to the life form of the rider, than even in our country, which, I believe, is a sobering situation. This is not just a hobby or even a touristic opportunity, but we also need to talk about recreation, or even about its positive effects on the health. So we're proposing a more serious transfer here, too. [[Dr. László Varga is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] Agricultural secondary institutions are another area that is very close to my heart, and unfortunately every year my amendments of this kind are rejected. This is about the institution's cry for help. So let's not interpret it as saying that we right-handers started spending billions or hundreds of millions on the lines here. These are, in each case, the translation and submission of requests which you have received, fully justified legitimate requests, because you have not been able to do so. These institutions are unable, not because of their own fault, but unable to carry out the minimum task of ensuring that the 21st century is fully operational. They are able to provide acceptable practical training to pupils in the first century, while one of the biggest problems in the sector is the lack of skilled labour. So I would like to draw your attention to this important area, and I urge you, if not our amendment, because, let's say, you are making a prestige issue of it, but then, as one last option, present a proposal for this on your own. [[14.10]] The National Land Fund Manager, as I recall, will cease to exist on July 1, and is now known as the National Earth Management Centre. Compared to previous years, his budget is falling significantly, which is unsurprising, as state land has been privatised. In any case, we would like this land centre to manage at least the remaining land and carry out a lifelike practice that, unlike the previous years, will finally be able to support this much-spoken family economic model, since this has not happened in the past. All I have to say is that you privatized the state land in 600-700 million forints pieces, which, let's face it, is not exactly a family economy-friendly privatisation. I don't think the family farms that were able to pay for this kind of land were in need of that kind of land. We have many other problems and proposals for amendments. Drink milk! I would also like to draw attention to the programme or the School Fruit Scheme, where they can serve only a fraction of the needs of the appropriation that we read here, but in the absence of time, I would perhaps address them in a later speech. In conclusion, I would like to say that unfortunately the logical difference that I have experienced in the budget for nine years is the logical difference that exists between you and us, that in your eyes agriculture and the Hungarian countryside are only about the few thousand wealthy people who can make a full-time living in the field today. For Jobbik and I think it's XXI. The Hungarian countryside is about those who live in the Hungarian countryside and who should be much more useful to its assets and resources, including the budget. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-19-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-19-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Allow me to respond here to a few opposition contributions that we have heard in the last few hours, before I make my contribution to the budget, because it is a rare occasion that the former Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, has also honoured the Parliament to give his opinion on the budget. He didn't tell us about the budget, but we did find out that he was meditating regularly to find out what we were right about, but so far he hasn't found a point where he thought we were in agreement. We agree with the ex-Prime Minister on this, because there are not many things that we agree with that of the Democratic Coalition or its indefatigability, but we have certainly learned that he would like to agree. If you would like to agree, honourable Member or honourable group, perhaps you should try not to say your contributions to the budget in the framework that Ferenc Gyurcsány said earlier, that his words must be interpreted in the framework that we lied in the morning, in the night and in the evening, because we could not expect much truth from Ferenc Gyurcsány about the amount of benefits spent either on the GDP data or on wages or on the various areas, but that is the case, things work that are right. From the dialogue fraction, Congresswoman Timea Szabó said that everything is bad, a little worse, and things will get even worse next year. He read that out of the budget. We don't know how he managed to do this, but he was immediately refuted by Tamás Mellar, his fellow faction, who said that basically the numbers are good, but he doesn't believe that these numbers can be redeemed or made real. Economic growth looks good, but it's not gonna be that much, it's not gonna look good, it's not gonna be that much, it's gonna look good, it's not gonna be that much. So it's a little hard to argue when there's solid numbers in front of us. We have also seen from recent years that, many times, the growth target has not been achieved because we have overachieved it. In many cases, the deficit target has not been achieved because we have been undershooted and even fewer deficits have been brought together in the budget. It is difficult to argue with these arguments, honourable Members, but we are obviously here to try. It should be pointed out that the budget we are looking at is a budget for families and for tax cuts. We help families with children in particular and we protect the results of the economy. Fidesz-KDNP's family policy puts the child first. It helps young people to have as many children as they want, while it supports those who already have children by taking on part of the burden of raising children. Since 2010, the government has more than doubled the support for families, with the highest level of family support in Europe. In the budget, nearly HUF 2228 billion is available next year to support Hungarian families. Based on data from the past period, Hungary is one of the most dynamically growing economies in Europe. Let us be proud of this, fellow Members. Our economy is growing one of the most dynamic, and in the coming years Central Europe seems to be the engine of economic growth in Europe, and it is an ambitious, although not unattainable goal, that Hungarian economic growth should always remain 2 percent above the EU average. This is due to the work of Hungarian people, the activities of Hungarian businesses and government measures, that GDP growth is expected to remain above 4 percent in 2020. Hungary's GDP has expanded by 28.6 percent since 2010. The positive economic results are driven by the dynamic growth in employment, the steady rise in wages, the unbroken desire to invest and the high performance of exports. The number of people employed is now 4.5 million, while 3.5 percent unemployment is the lowest since the change of regime. We can remember that the Balliberal Government before 2010 made more than 1 million people unemployed and that there was unemployment in Hungary over 12 percent. As a result of the six-year wage agreement, a two-digit wage increase was achieved, while there was no wage increase before 2010 or, when there was a wage increase, a small wage increase was lost and a month's wages were taken. It was funny when Ferenc Gyurcsány told us about inflation here in the House, while during his governance the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people, who wanted to make a living on their wages and salaries, had to fight with 78 or 9 percent inflation. In 2020, as we said, the budget provides HUF 2228 billion in resources to Hungarian families. This is nearly HUF 224 billion higher than the support provided in this year's 2019 budget, so by increasing family support and by taking action on family protection, the framework will continue to grow again, which we want to devote to Hungarian families. Compared to 2010, the government will spend nearly two and a half times more HUF 1261 billion on supporting Hungarian families in 2020. We can remember what happened before 2010. It was not enough for Gyurcsányek that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people were unemployed, the workers were working for humiliatingly low wages, the country was severely weakened, indebted, and served foreign interests, but their family policy was built only on aid. Under the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, family formation and childbearing were equal to poverty. Young people were not given any help in starting their own lives, creating homes, getting married, starting a family and having children, but they wanted to introduce tuition fees, they took away the third year child, they didn't have child benefits, and the family tax benefits, from whom they didn't take them away, were only HUF 4,000 for the third child. The Socialists, in partnership with foreign banks, stopped the favourable home creation programme and allowed the banks to deceive people, forced Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans during the governance of Gyurcsány and Bajnai. So they never gave any support to Hungarian families, they always took it away and made their livelihoods extremely difficult. The Hungarian families have received continuous increases and new taxes from socialist-liberal governments. They were constantly raising the price of gas and electricity. Hungarian families throughout Europe have paid the most expensive gas and electricity prices in Gyurcsány-éra. Over a thousand billion were taken from the population in these eight years by the then foreign-owned energy companies. The Gyurcsány government has taken a month's pension from the elderly, allowed pensions to be devalued, never paid a pension premium, and we can even remember it, because sometimes it wears out of our memory, trying to introduce a pension tax. Gyurcsány and the left could only squander and steal the national wealth. Under the governance of the Hungarian left, EU funds were stolen, public funds were in huge trouble, and economic growth was reduced, while public debt was skyrocketing. [[14.20]] Under its governance, Gyurcsány was not interested in competitiveness, education or wages. Then the Bajnai government set a world record for increasing public debt. In 2002, we can remember that at the time of the change in government debt was 53 per cent of GDP, and in 2010 this figure was 85 per cent. During the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, the price of extreme economic policy was introduced on the Hungarian people with a series of restrictions, all they did was raise taxes and cutbacks, sometimes referred to as 100-day programmes, sometimes as other programs. Ferenc Gyurcsány has announced 24, 25, 26 programs in his life, none of them have been very successful. Instead of the current 9 percent, 19 percent were corporate taxes, but employees were also taxed to death and a month's wages were also taken from public sector workers. In addition, health care was reduced, forints 600 billion were taken out of health care; 16,000 active beds were charged; hospitals were closed and 6,000 nurses and 6,000 doctors were chased away. Hundreds of closed schools, abandoned villages, tens of thousands of dismissed or humiliated teachers, tapped wages, skilled worker training, often worthless diplomas and aided people remained after their education policies and social policies. On the other hand, since 2011 only around HUF 2600 billion remained with Hungarian families in the framework of the family tax relief. The total of housing subsidies next year is close to HUF 300 billion, which represents an increase of more than HUF 54 billion compared to this year. Compared to 2010, we doubled the amount spent on housing subsidies. From 1 January 2020, the four-year-old mother's personal income tax exemption will be introduced, leaving tens of billions of HUF in the pocket of Hungarian families. The amount of food for children will increase to an unprecedented extent. As long as the Socialists spent 34 billion in 2010, it will be available for HUF 82.5 billion next year. It is important to mention that wage-raising programmes will continue next year. Nearly HUF 240 billion more wages will be made in the public sector next year than this year. In 2010, the Hungarian budget spent HUF 2653 billion on public sector workers' wages. Next year, this amount is expected to exceed 4100 billion. The increase of more than HUF 1455 billion represents a 55 percent nominal increase after the tragic government in 2010. In the 2020 budget, nearly HUF 2000 billion will be available for health purposes. This is more than HUF 740 billion in 2010 and is nearly HUF 185 billion higher than the funds provided this year. So much for opposition accusations that there is no increase in health expenditure, no increase in educational expenditure, no increase in these expenditures. Education spending is also close to HUF 2080 billion next year, which represents an increase of more than HUF 500 billion compared to 2010 and represents nearly HUF 50 billion more than this year. The amount of budget resources that can be spent on pensions will increase by nearly HUF 136 billion to more than HUF 3580 billion next year. The government expects an inflation rate of 2.8 per cent in the 2020 budget, thus increasing pensions and pension-like benefits from 1 January 2020. Next year's budget also allocates more than HUF 20 billion to pay the pension premium in 2020. The amount of resources available for defence will rise by nearly 30 percent to more than 550 billion forints in one year. This means that defence spending has more than doubled since 2010. We can remember that between 2002 and 2010, the army was dismantled, the military was humiliated, the numbers were reduced. Security is our priority. Our soldiers are surrounded by international recognition in foreign missions, sustained and sustained under migratory pressure, and an unprecedented development of forces is also underway. Law enforcement spending is close to HUF 920 billion, which represents a HUF 418 billion increase in the law enforcement sector only compared to 2010. It is important to note that there will also be a significant increase in resources in the field of R &amp; D next year, with a surplus of HUF 32 billion available in this area compared to this year, from HUF 125 billion in 2019 to HUF 157 billion in 2020. For two government cycles, a number of measures have already been taken for many people in the social field. Ultimately, action in the social field will always have an impact on those who need support in some areas of life. But as a principle, it is good to be able to help as many people as possible before using the social safety net. Those ideas, those principles, do not change here in the Fidesz-KDNP faction association, to try to give work instead of aid, and to have a regular, predictable income for someone, and to have family support that will leave more money in the family register. An important result is that the majority of 21,000 children and 2,500 young adults receiving child protection no longer live in institutions, more than two thirds of whom live in foster homes. Since 2010, the government's aim has been to allow as many children as possible to live in a family environment that needs the care of the state. That's why we strengthened the foster system. Since 2014, foster parent status has been an employment relationship, and next year foster parenthood will also be introduced. The care fee and the child care fee will continue to increase, as promised earlier. It is also a major task to further improve the situation of people with disabilities and to integrate people with disabilities into the labour market. From a national economic and social point of view, it is important to have more employees among those with disabilities. It must be clearly said that it can produce valuable work and added value. It can provide people with a whole new quality of life and goals if they are given the opportunity to work for the benefit of society. The employment rate of people with disabilities is now well above 40%, compared with only 18% in 2010. Support for accredited employers is one of the most important elements of the supported employment of people with disabilities. In 2019 365 accredited employers employ 30 896 people. In line with the objectives, an increase of nearly HUF 1.5 billion in the budget for 2020 will also contribute to efficient work and high quality employment rehabilitation. Another important topic: In October 2010, the National Assembly adopted a decision that the government should draw up a national programme in order to ensure that at least once all Hungarian students studying in public education are able to reach the Hungarian population areas of neighbouring countries with the support of the Hungarian state and that as many Hungarian students from abroad can reach Hungary as possible through exchanges or excursions. That's how he started the Unlimited! a program where tens of thousands of mothers' seventh-graders, high school students and students can reach a connected area, discover the beauty of Transylvania, South-Helvidék, Subcarpathia or even Muravidék; visit the places they have already learned from their literary or historical studies and meet the young Hungarians who are studying there. In addition, young people from across borders will also have the opportunity to come to Hungary, where they can spend a few days in training, either in the capital or in different parts of the country, as it is important for us to have a relationship based on personal experiences as well as dual citizenship. Young people should develop this in school age, so that the growing generation will be able to take responsibility for our Hungarian brothers and sisters across the border. That is why the Parliament's decision yesterday was important and symbolic, by which it declared the year 2020 a year of national cohesion, and obviously there is sufficient resources in the budget before us to enable the commemorations and various events of this festive year, the year of national cohesion to take place throughout the Carpathian Basin. The Unlimited! Proposals are also very popular, with continuous simplification, reduction of red tape, extension of eligible costs all helping students to leave and reducing school administration. Next year, nearly HUF 5.5 billion will be available for this programme as well. Between us are the representatives of the 13 Hungarian nationalities sitting here in the National Assembly with 1 representative and 12 advocates. The relations between the Hungarian government and the governing parties with the nationalities of Hungary are also excellent. As the figures well show, Hungary not only supports the 13 indigenous national minorities living with us in words but also at European level. Since 2010, the amount of support for nationalities in Hungary has increased by about three times, and now it is increasing even further. Although all majority states would help their nationalities in their territory with such exemplary gestures and support schemes, even in the Carpathian Basin, Europe and the world! [[14.30]] More and more people claim to belong to a nationality, as well as the institutions they maintain and the number of students and young people who study there or in some way relate to them are growing and more communities are being organised. With nationality camps, cultural, religious, sports and other programs, ethnic identity can be strengthened, whether with native language camps or exchange students, a very important element of the domestic ethnic life is such a relationship. Since 2010, the amount that can be applied to ethnic camps has increased by more than 10 times, with a significant increase in the funding for the training and scholarship of ethnic teachers, as well as the promotion of ethnic culture and civil society organisations. It is important to mention the community-building and community-building role of churches. In all sectors of society, our churches and monastic orders are present in the fields of education, social territory, child protection, faith life, culture, health. We are well aware that before 2010, some of the Churches and Church Schools' support was withdrawn, making it impossible for valuable social work to be done. Before 2010, there was an anti-church policy in Hungary, while after 2010 the churches concluded a strategic partnership with the government, and we count on their social-building work. Appreciating the period between 2011 and 18, it can be concluded that more than a hundred new Hungarian and foreign churches could be built in this period, as well as nearly 3 thousand churches in Hungary and abroad, as well as numerous parishes, parishes and church or community houses, as well as church constructions and renovations, such as church institutions, school renovations, are still underway. Wherever we are in the country, in the capital, in the countryside, or across the border, we can find churches or religious institutions erected in many places, which will enable them to look forward to their community in a modern way. A new line in the next year's budget is a series of appropriations for church public service and community investment, which has been built up with a budget of HUF 12 billion. The government intends to support the church kindergarten development program, but the aim of the ecclesiastical field is to draw attention to the need for institutional infrastructure development of public tasks performed by churches, and to ensure a long-term need for resources separate from religious activity. The budget for 2020 is the budget of families, which will also apply in the ecclesiastical field, so it is of particular importance to support families' camps organised by churches, camps organised for young people, travelling camps or various community programmes, which, on the one hand, represent a valuable pastime for families and young people, not only a physical, but perhaps a spiritual recharge, and on the other hand, an important mission for the churches to families. I will conclude with what I have started: the bill before us, the budget for 2020 are a budget for families and for tax cuts. In it we find eligible targets that, I think, have a positive impact on Hungarian society, help Hungarian society, which are in line with the goals of the Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association. I think it is important to find opposition support for programmes, wage increases, additional resources that we have launched and for which additional resources will be available in the next year's budget. So I will ask everyone to vote in favour of the 2020 budget. Thank you very much. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.
u2019-06-19-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lajos Korózs is next from the MSZP Group.
u2019-06-19-47	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to continue somewhere where my group leader, Mr Bertalan Tóth, has stopped saying what he has to say, and therefore my first sentence is that, despite economic growth, the government, I see, is spending less and less on welfare expenditure and less on spending cake, and less and less on social territory. Even in 2020, better families will be given more of the common, children born or living in poverty and their families have been abandoned by the government, the budget for supporting families is actually the budget of family scheming, in my opinion. Some expenditure increases in social services will only ensure vegetation in the future, while providing an ageing population would require more and more services, but here, I see that only waiting lists are increasing. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I think we can agree that the future presents a tremendous number of challenges. I would like to start right away by saying that in my opinion, the next decade in the social field will be about everyone fighting against everyone for social services and for the accommodations of residential elderly homes, for professional facilities, all the more so, because, in view of the statistics, we have seen that there is almost no institution of care that I stress that this is about residential institutions, whether in disability care or in homelessness care, or, say, in places for rehabilitation addicts, where there would not be a decrease in the last year, I stress that there is a reduction in the number of people living. That's why I claim that the future will be about fighting, fighting for these seats. A lot of people don't think this through, but I think that since I don't pursue vain fantasies, I don't want my amendments to be supported unanimously, but we are going to do it anyway, just to see where the emphasis should be. The emphasis should be placed where services can be expanded, where home care can be extended. Now, for a period of time and hours, families can solve an example by saying that those working abroad... because their parents are going to be in the most difficult situation already, but in a few years' time they are guaranteed, because they can still buy services with the money transferred back, but this will not be the case in the future; it will not be because the budget will not ensure that the social sector is caught up in wages. What we see today is that in the social profession, let's say, in Western Transdanubia, you can no longer find a social worker, because almost everyone works in Burgenland. Last week, in an interpellation, I also said that there is no longer a residential nursing home from Graz to Vienna where Hungarians do not work, there is no day care facility in the social sector in Burgenland, where Hungarians do not work, I do not say that the waiter is Hungarian, the gas station attendant is Hungarian, and the cook is Hungarian. Dear Friends! In relation to family support, an introductory sentence, because I will address pensions, family support and social benefits, I would like to talk a little longer about these three issues: they predict that the family support policies so far have been completely unsuccessful in the last nine years. It's possible to polish phrases. If you look at demographic trends, you can see this: for a year and a half, the total fertility index was a little higher than in the previous years, and now you're back to where you were three years ago. In English: women of childbearing age don't seem to have more children than, say, a few years ago. That's one thing. The other is that if you look at the demographic map, the smallest children are born in relatively good areas, in Western Transdanubia, where mortality is the greatest, and now they show worse indicators than Békés County and often Baranya County, in Western Hungary the mortality index has increased, the reproductive index has decreased, the total fertility index has decreased. This is something the government should be thinking about, that it is indeed a good policy that they are pursuing. Like I said, I'd like to talk about three things in a little bit more detail. In the case of pensions: the budget is forecasting a 2.8 percent increase in pensions for next year, which was 2.7 percent this year. We could say that hurray, 0.1 percent higher retirement rate next year than it was this year. But they have no idea, this can be read out of the convergence programme, and they have no idea of touching the annual technique of raising pensions, the technique of raising pensions following inflation, and this preserves the current situation. The fact that only inflation, the rate of loss of money, is increasing pensions means that the government guarantees that those who had to live miserablely on few pensions last year will live miserablely on few pensions again next year. [[14.40]] It can now be seen that it is unsustainable that net wage increases are not taken into account, for 10 years now, that pension increases have been derailed from the track, the so-called Swiss indexation technique. This means that pensions will be permanently cut off from wages, and the dynamics of wages, the dynamics of growth, are horribly distorted. Today, almost three-quarters of workers do not receive the average wage. If you look at the median wage, you can see that the average wage reaches 75 percent of the median income. If we look at the territorial differences within that, we can see that there are tremendous differences. No mistake, there are differences in all countries, territorial differences in incomes, but such large differences, I believe, are not at all in Central and Eastern Europe as they are in Hungary. The agglomeration of the capital and capital is in a relatively good position, the surroundings of Győr, Komárom and Tatabánya are relatively well located, and everyone else is torn down for light years. Now, if you look at the fact that the median wage does not reach 75% of the average wage, then, please, it is expected that those who retire in the near future, even though last year, let's say, there was a net wage increase of 10-12 per cent, there was a 7.5 per cent net wage increase in the previous year, and I am pleased that this will mean that hundreds of thousands of people will live miserablely low pensions, because their initial pension will be extremely low. But the other is that there will be terrible differences between people who have entered the same career. Because the net wage increase of the last one or two years or two or three years, if we take two brothers on the basis of the same occupation, both worked at the same workplace, and both had the same career, only because one of them retires next year, and the other one retired three or two years ago, there will be tens of thousands, 40 to 50 thousand forints difference between their pensions, even if he has received an increase in his pension during the year, increased by inflation in the last three years. As a result of the net wage increase, a person who retires next year will have an order of magnitude more than a person who retired three years ago, but has received a pension increase for three years. They ran the same course, paid the same amount of taxes, paid the same amount of contributions, earned the same amount of service. I think that this injustice should be corrected somehow in the pension system. In the case of family support, I think that the government should support not only the birth of children, but also the raising of children, at least to the extent that it satisfies social justice at least at a minimum level. As a result, it should be noted here that I understand that the government and the right-wing parties argue with the policy of family tax relief, but the fact that the family allowance that reaches everyone has not been increased by a naughty penny for 10 years now is a lot of social benefits that are assigned to the minimum amount of retirement pension, which has not changed for 10-11 years, and is still 28 500 forints, but the same amount of child benefit, the same amount of maternity allowance, I could say, which has not increased... I think it would be far, far more fair to redistribute where there would also be steps towards universal benefits, and for example, as a family allowance guaranteed to all children, they would also receive some substantial support, all the more so, because in ten years at least 25 percent of this money has been inhibited. It's the same with baby bonds. I understand that at the time, for 13 years now, the same amount that the government has devoted to this item is 42 500 forints. I beg you, but how much different 12 years ago was the same amount as now, since in 12 years more than one third of this form of support has been inhibited. I am bringing these up, my fellow Members, because during today, Policy Agenda published the minimum living research, which KSH has refused to publish for the third year. In the former cases, I also stayed with pensions and family support because it clearly shows that two indicators were published during today, at 10 a.m., the minimum social and minimum pension rates. Of course, I will not present it here in front of the National Assembly for all types of household, but I must say that the single-person household is a living minim of HUF 94 820 and the social minimum for the single-person household is HUF 121 350. The conclusion can be drawn from this, my friends, that while the average pension rate of HUF 134 thousand, which is the result of the horribly unfair pension policy, is not that pensions have increased the average rate of joy, but that when they have abolished the contribution ceiling, they have created the possibility to have several million HUF pensions, while, let's say, households reaching a single-person household minimum do not receive 690 thousand families, 690 thousand pensioners do not receive the minimum that we call a minimum of living, and more than one million pensioners do not receive the social minimum. The typical two-parent-two-child household is Léminimma today, HUF 274 978 and the social minimum is HUF 351 915. Let's see how many families have that kind of income. How many families have that kind of income, and let's see how they spread within that area? ! Because I understand, Budapest, Pest neighbourhood, agglomeration, advanced industrial cities, technological centers, there, I think there are decent salaries. But in most parts of the country, these incomes are not available to pensioners or active employees. I have talked about family allowances, maternity allowance, baby bonds, pensions, and, for a few sentences, let me have the social benefits, fellow Members. The social support for most people, about 70-80 thousand people, remains a substitute for employment, which remains unchanged for HUF 22 800 next year. The reason for this is that the minimum pension, which I mentioned earlier, has not increased a bit, and now it has been 12 years since we are talking about the 2020 budget, for 12 years it has been 28 500 forints. We looked at the amounts related to the social tasks of the district, which are increased by HUF 26.2 billion. This is interesting because, in addition to the determined increases, the amount of care and care fees for children increases significantly, as adopted last year's amendment. Only this last annual amount amounts to HUF 29.4 bn, which means that other benefits under the budget line will be reduced. Because if these costs are going up, and that's the sum, then all the rest of them have to go down, as appropriate. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The local government can provide so-called municipal support and support for local social benefits next year with a total of 1 billion HUF more than this year. As I said for a sentence, there is at least no evidence of wage arrangements for workers in the social sector at present in the Budget Act. According to the draft, neither the social workers of municipal or state-owned institutions will increase their allowance next year. It is desirable that a kindergarten program, a day care program, or an extension program have been announced, but I am concerned, my dear friends, that there will be no professional working in these institutions because of such salaries. The seats may be created, but there are no two kindergarten teachers in kindergarten groups today, and they are happy that if there is one, there is an assistant for the afternoon, or there is no child care provider, and they are replacing you with someone else. These people work 34 hours by default, and then they even have to make a replacement, which they usually don't get any further additions to. I definitely had to tell you that about the subject. [[14.50]] Finally, I think that despite the partial increase in expenditure, it says a lot that even the Hungarian Telegram Office, which is close to the government, wrote that next year there will be almost as much access to the social field as there has been. I think I've told you everything. Thank you very much for your patience and attention.
u2019-06-19-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr György Hubay, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-19-49	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, T/6322 on Hungary's central budget for 2020 Although the budget for supporting families is quite clear, the bill contains a number of elements that, as in recent years, will guarantee the safety of Hungarians. For many years, the Government of Hungary has been making very serious efforts to effectively protect our southern border area and thus also the external borders of the Schengen area. We were the first and unique country in Europe to provide a tangible response to countering the illegal migrant flood. Think back to the times when tens of thousands of unidentified illegal immigrants broke through the southern green border and destroyed the lands of Hungarian farmers, leaving an endless amount of waste and infectious environment behind them. However, the government recognised the upcoming trouble in time and took immediate action to stop the process. The fruits of the measures are clearly ripe, because today Hungary is a safe country, where tourists come from abroad with a good heart, and the professional portals also classify Hungary as a safe country. However, in order for these defence tasks to be implemented and to protect our security without external support or even with the support of the European Union, it is of paramount importance that the long-term stability of our country is achieved. We are proud to say that today the Hungarian economy is one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe. This does not mean, of course, that we can be confident, because as well as every country's economy, the Hungarian economy has a number of potential threats. For example, it may have an impact on our economy that the growth of the global world economy has slowed down according to the latest figures, or that trade tensions seem to be perpetuating. However, we can say that our target remains unchanged in 2020: we want the growth rate of the Hungarian economy to be at least 2 percentage points higher than the average growth in Europe next year. These objectives will also be supported by the recently announced economic protection action plan, resulting in GDP growth rates of up to 4 percent in 2020. Hungary's strong and growing economy contributes to the government's outstanding attention to cover law enforcement costs in the future, which contributes to ensuring the security of the Hungarian people. Strengthening public security, protection against international and domestic terrorism, the development of disaster prevention, detection of criminal offences and the enforcement of penalties to protect human life and values should also be a priority issue in 2020. It is clear from the draft central budget for 2020 that, in order to protect and safeguard the security of the Hungarian people, the government will continue to stand firm while protecting our borders and safeguarding national sovereignty. So far and beyond, the government has taken all necessary measures to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people, thus ensuring the necessary resources for the protection of borders in the 2020 budget. I do not wish to hold you back with statistical data and numbers, but it is certainly worth mentioning that Hungary spends 83 percent more on public security and law enforcement today than in the 2010 change of government, the results of which are clearly visible in our daily lives. While in 2010, at the end of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period, the operation of the area was limited to HUF 500 billion, the specialty is now managed by nearly HUF 1000 billion. The main task of the Ministry of Interior and the law enforcement agencies under its control is to strengthen order and public security, to implement subsequent developments and organisational changes for the protection, security and security of citizens, which would not work without adequate budgetary effort. The three pillars of the renewed police are the Counter-Terrorism Centre for the detection, prevention and eradication of terrorist offences, the National Defence Service established for the purposes of internal crime prevention and investigation, and the National Police Headquarters and their subordinate bodies, which carry out their tasks together and in cooperation. The renewal is clearly considered successful, since Hungary's public security is balanced today, there is still no country's area, settlement or part of the city that is critical to public security. Opinion polls carried out over the past period clearly confirm consistent professional work. It is also positive that, as in recent years, the number of criminal offences that have become known has been further reduced, accompanied by improved investigative results. In 2018, police officers recorded a total of 186 724 crimes, which is 13.4 percent lower than in the previous year, compared to the 2010 base year, when the number of recorded crimes was 428 785, 56.5 percent lower. I think this is not just any achievement on the part of law enforcement agencies, and this is, of course, a recognition to them. Due to adequate budgetary support, one of the foundations for maintaining public security can be achieved, which is to ensure a continuous public police presence. However, it is important that continuous contacts with local authorities, public security conciliation forums and other consultation forums should be essential for the implementation of this. In the settlements of the country, the permanent police presence is ensured primarily by the district agency service. In addition to the massive illegal migration that has been persistent and thus constantly challenging for years, effective protection of the state border is constantly ensured. The National Defence Service, which has already been mentioned above, performs its tasks with an established organisational structure and a clear system of powers. He continued his basic tasks of reconnaissance, reliability checks and impeccable life checks. Perhaps the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre, which is a little less well-known by many, but which still carries out very important tasks, examines Hungary's security and crime situation as a new national security service, carries out government briefings and supports, coordination, analysis and evaluation activities, as well as carries out the tasks of the Passenger Data Information Unit, thereby contributing to the security of the Hungarian people. For a few sentences, I would also like to mention to you the area of detention. The organisation shall contribute to strengthening public policy and public security, which is an important part of the government programme, by carrying out its professional tasks. The government has provided significant resources for the extension of the capacity of the prisons to reach the required number of seats. Two new sites have been identified in connection with the capacity-building programme of the prisons, so the settlement of health care conditions has also been resolved. Creating the conditions for safe custody is the basis for the functioning of the prison organisation, the implementation of its statutory tasks, the guarantee of the legal functioning and order of the prison execution, which also ensures the protection of the prisoners. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important that, for a few short sentences, I also address the work of the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. [[15.00]] The bodies of the OKF with territorial status shall carry out civil protection tasks and the professional management of fire protection, in the case specified by law, in the cases of first and second degree disaster prevention, water and water protection authorities and specialised authorities, national mosquito control tasks and, as of 1 July 2016, disaster protection shall ensure the performance of chimney sweeping tasks in the residential sector, depending on municipal decisions. The objective of the OKF is to protect human life and values, to protect property, to represent and protect the interests of victims and victims. The government also recognises the importance of the operation of voluntary fire brigades and voluntary rescue organisations, as the amount of support continued to increase to HUF 700 million in 2018. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the fight against illegal immigration has not ended, and even illegal migration will remain the focus of attention in 2020 given the negative global political events, in particular the armed conflicts in the Middle East and North African countries, the transit nature of Hungary, its geographical location and hundreds of thousands of migrants in Turkey and the Balkan countries. In conjunction with the control of illegal migration, it is also necessary to mention the activities of the National Directorate-General for Foreign Police, which considers strengthening the fight against illegal migration as a priority in 2020. To this end, the aim should be to continuously increase the knowledge of the stock and to ensure transferable knowledge between specific fields. Cooperation with the police and other law enforcement and national security bodies should be of particular importance in order to detect irregular migration trends. The effectiveness of the action on illegal foreigners can also be increased in the future by the transformation of the organisation into a law enforcement body. An important objective in the field of asylum should be to effectively detect migrants who abuse asylum, to conduct procedures quickly, to return rejected asylum seekers effectively to the country of origin or to the country that is required to receive them. In addition to the budgetary resources allocated to each body, a priority should be to increase the capacity of individual law enforcement bodies to maintain their workforce. One, but not the only, instrument for this is ensuring competitive wages. The government will spend more than HUF 840 billion on the wages of law enforcement and defence workers in 2020, which is around HUF 355 billion higher than in 2010. This represents more than 70 percent increase for workers in the area. I would also like to illustrate what I have just said with a few examples. While in 2010 the wages of a chief investigator with a 10-year service contract and a higher education degree were 302,000 forints, in 2019 it was nearly 470 thousand forints, which represents an extra 56 percent increase. Also in 2010, a deputy officer with a secondary degree and a 15-year service relationship paid 215 thousand forints.In 2019 it was more than 330,000 forints, which shows a 53 percent increase. For a five-year-old senior officer who earned HUF 205,000 in 2010, in 2019 his salary was nearly HUF 315,000, this is an additional 54 percent. However, it is important that by 1 January 2019 after the introduction of the police career, the average allowance of the deputy officers increased from HUF 221 thousand gross to HUF 330 thousand, which represents a 49 percent increase, while the officer's average salary increased from HUF 324 thousand gross to HUF 496,000, which is a 53 percent increase. Finally, allow me a few thoughts about my constituency. A short decade ago, the Socialist City Council recommended that the Miskolcs not go out on the street in the evening for the sake of their public safety. This was also the case because, during the Gyurcsány government, not only did the country become bankrupt, but public security also fell to a low level of criticism. While in 2010, the Socialist Government spent only HUF 340 million on public security, today this amount is more than HUF 1 billion, thanks to Dr. Ákos Kriza's consistently implemented public security programme. It is also worth mentioning that during the Gyurcsány government, in 2006, nearly 13 thousand registered crimes took place in Miskolc, which we were able to bring down to 4800, almost a third, together with post-2010 government and city police and police work. The result was based on cooperation between the police and the city police, and the government's determined and determined policy to increase public security and drastically reduce the number of crimes. To sum up, I think that Hungary's central budget for 2020 is stable again, that Hungarian economic policy is unique and well thought out in Europe, which will allow the Hungarian people to feel safe in the future, and as a result we hope that as many as possible will choose Hungary as their destination in the future, as Hungary is a safe country. In the light of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2020. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, from the DK Group, is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-19-51	Our lives aren't easy. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, However, now that we have been able to listen to the reading of the text explaining the law, well, thank you very much, we are just a little further ahead. But there's something even more joyful, which Mr. Nacsa Lőrinc has produced, but he's always able to do that in any situation, although he's surprised me a little bit. However, allow me to say so much that if and if you have something to do with it and I assume you have a Christian democracy, then you must know this quote I'm about to give you: "Do not lie and do no harm to the honor of others." Human speech is the chief laborer of human relations. We can't abuse this great gift, we can't use it to the detriment of others. The command is also a sign of the greatest sin that can be committed by the tongue, and in general it brings true speech to us as a God - made obligation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the That's exactly what he was talking about! Maybe you didn't understand Ferenc Gyurcsány's message, and maybe you didn't understand this one either, but it was about not doing what you did. By the way, the speech that he listened to may have triggered it in itself, and so he read it out of writing, but it may have been originally produced. But if it was triggered by what was here, then it's also a good achievement, because then the communication team hasn't spent the last few hours in vain, and all the work they've had to do has been done by you. After all, the budget to which we do, as a budget for survival, and even a breakdown, can be described in a calm way, is that it is not the momentary pleasure that has to be met here, but that which, by the way, in twenty years' time, with the vision of where Hungary could go, it is necessary to talk about investments in a period of time where, by the way, it is possible to do so. So from this point of view, I think it is worth discussing a few things, although I am doing you the favor of not reading the numbers in general and not the explanations here and I would like to talk about them, but I have to repeat a few points in advance compared to last year. This is that the lack of transparency of the budgetary processes, which you are preparing in the planning method, must be established on a regular basis that, otherwise, without the knowledge of the data for 2018, you will present it in spring without the data for 2019 and thus create sufficient uncertainty for the budget for 2020. [[15.10]] In this case, it is always suggested that since the government terminated the practice of preparing interim monthly projections already in 2010, even though they would have been further developed, the monthly updating of annual runs would have allowed us to go forward and to talk about the budget with appropriate figures at all times. Well, instead, you chose the method of virtually excluding the budget from the control of Parliament, of shaping it, and otherwise, by setting very high reserves, you practically decide from day to day how the under-planned expenditure is actually going to be resolved in the end. I will always criticise the adoption of the budget in the spring, what you have started here in this respect. There are also signs of this, which makes me think that I am right from this point of view, as it also indicates the irrationality of the early adoption of budgets that, for example, due to the six-year wage agreement concluded in December 2016, household consumption expenditure was projected to increase by 3.7 per cent in the 2017 Budget Act, which, by the way, became 7.2 per cent. So, in fact, they create a framework where they can do anything, in any way they shape it. In that sense, for you, what is always going to be the right thing to do, and that's how you think. That's how you get in the position that the year of families that you talk about so much is sometimes taken up, and that's what you say this year with some kind of label attached, even though what you've been doing for ten years is completely ineffective. This can be seen from the indicators that are in front of us, while I do not dispute that you must respond in some way to the demographic situation. But what they're doing... it's not the first law to mention that they're doing it wrong. Accordingly, this fiscal law, which is being said to protect families, will not be able to go further. The second package is optimistic macroeconomic forecasts, with a 4% increase in inflation of 2.7 percent. Last year, they didn't do any different, so the increase was 3.7 percent, and that's what they reckoned. Here, the big trap and the big lie are actually at 2.7 percent inflation. They know that it will be much higher than this, and therefore not only do they fail to comply with or avoid legislation from the point of view of stability by using this tool and method, but even pensioners are easily deceived compared to this, and for them, they actually make everyday, simplest foods unattainable. I don't know how you've noticed that practically the simplest food, like the pepper fries, has had a price increase over the last five years if someone wants to produce it and where it came from. You probably don't know this situation very well. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The pepper fries?]] But the point is... He has met Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa, and I am grateful for it, but the point is that the brutal price increase that has occurred in the basic food that affects pensioners most has occurred, so here you are playing them out in this sense, because you want or will take into account inflation data in the pension increase. In fact, we have heard proudly from the Minister today that no increase more than inflation is expected, the increase in wages and its partial consequences, such as this increase in prices, are ignored by you. There is still one drawback to this optimistic approach: the arrival of EU support. And since you have already admitted here, Minister, that you expect essentially HUF 200 billion less from the revenue side than the amount of EU funds to arrive in Hungary, I can interpret this as a penalty of HUF 200 billion, which will definitely go down and we will have to pay for it. Let us say that concrete examples can already be seen of the solution, the methodology in which EU funds have been used in the past, where it is no wonder that penalties should be taken into account. I consider the 1.3 percent increase in employment to be an equally optimistic approach, which I am curious about where it will be achieved. Or there will be an increase in the number of container parks where people from the East will be moved, since they will be brought here from Ukraine to Mongolia; that may be, if you count on it, your souls will be on it. I will never miss the criticism of the general sales tax in such a situation. You are expecting an increase of 15.8 percent in consumption. Therefore, as I said here in the debate that took place the other day, with Europe's highest general sales tax, 27 percent of the 80,000 HUF pension is immediately paid into the budget, so they are being sabotaged. That's his MO. That's why we disagree with the system you're doing. That is why we do not agree with it, and we do not find a common denominator in this sense, because you are focusing on consumption, primarily on taxing it. Oh, yes, I would like to say two more things, a little bit in response to what some of my fellow Members have said here. Here he was very proud of the Tao, I think, Congressman Satmary. I would like to draw attention to the fact that one of the Tao's forms, such as the cultural Tao, was briefly removed, for a while they were not aware of the justification, and they talked about the actions of villains who, by the way, used it as abuse, and then stopped quickly, because otherwise it is difficult or they do not want to face this criticism on the other side of the Tao, on the other side of sport. In any case, it is important to draw attention to this, and this is important from the point of view of public finances, because they argue and defend only one thing, because they do not encounter abuses in the sport sector because otherwise they do not carry out any kind of control. So in this respect, if they are very proud of it, there would be a lot of criticism if, by the way, not only by carrying out checks in other areas, but also by using them, they would check and not hide controlled areas, such as the Felcsúti Foundation. Where, by the way, you had to get to the point where, despite the documents, contracts, bills, court-appointed expenditure obligations, you were rescued to the Ministry and kept there for over a year, so that the public would not otherwise be able to know about it. The bailiff is not allowed to get close to these papers, and the Minister and the Secretary of State for Sport take responsibility for covering all these crimes that have otherwise been committed by the State. Finally, or rather, on the second issue of the introduction of the euro, I wanted to talk a little bit longer, but in the meantime, I realized something. You have repeatedly said here today that the Maastricht requirements are being met or fulfilled, and you are actually talking about it as if it were up to you to introduce it. In the meantime, however, we must realize that, let alone that you do not want to, you cannot introduce this. [[15.20]] You are not able to comply with the rules that relate to this. I think that the arguments for the introduction of the euro are stable prices, greater choice for consumers, greater security, more opportunities for businesses, economic stability and associated growth, integrated financial markets, all of which are in favour of doing so otherwise. You have a dream that you would like to do this, but, for example, what concerns debt, you cannot do it. However, they have done quite a lot, for example, to take away their pension savings from people, and to use part of them beyond foreign reserves to make this reduction. Besides, it's not a big deal to solve this through. The point is that you may be trying to do this, but you won't be able to do it. Of course, the intention is also questioned by the fact that, through exchange rate policy, the Hungarian National Bank will be profitable, and how it will be able to steal another tens and hundreds of billions in years in order to finance its own foundations with this, and then otherwise free public funds. This is the next part of the story. So I have to say, in essence, that what you are saying in a decade's perspective that you do not want to introduce it, well, I see that you are not able to do that, even though the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy would need it. The inflation criterion is not met, there is a lack of political will, and what you want is adapted to the central bank's economic policy centre, but in this single-centre Hungarian model everything that is the advantage of the euro is a disadvantage for you, and therefore you cannot be friendly with it. I therefore believe that this requires a change of government, and then fellow Members will understand it, even Mr Nacsa Lőrinc, that when we talk about the potential and security of the euro in a much larger market for the country and the economy, it is no wonder that they do not understand. Thank you very much for your attention. This budget is, of course, not eligible in this form. Thank you. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2019-06-19-52	Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-19-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I was moved to rise to the point that Mr László Varju, as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, had just spoken. I think that in today's debate there have been very many statements of a political nature, which, in my view, had nothing to do with reality in many cases. These political findings from opposition factions were answered by representatives of Kristóf Szatmáry and Lőrinc Nacsa, so that I would not go back on them. I'll make an exception for one thought. The Member drew attention to the importance of the actual truth-telling. I absolutely agree with that, and I respectfully ask the Member, Mr President, to ask everyone within the opposition benches to do the same. If the Member, Mr President, considers this to be important, then allow me to come to the end of my speech and argue with some of the points made by the President. The first point is that the budget that will be put before the Honourable Parliament in the spring session of the Parliament is well founded. We have often talked about the fact that, for the fifth year, the government has been continuing the practice of submitting proposals to Parliament six months before the entry into force of the budget or tax rules, because we believe that this strengthens predictability and stability. But the statement that we don't know last year's numbers is factually not true. Mr President, as President of the Committee on Budgets, if you look at the website of the Hungarian Treasury about the expenditures that were completed in 2018, what revenues have been accounted for, or if you look at Eurostat's public data, the European Commission's documents, you can see precisely that the facts of the Hungarian economy in 2018 are known. These are not just unilateral statements published by EU bodies, but, for example, Eurostat validates these figures in terms of deficit or public debt. In other words, the figures for 2018 are known and the figures and expectations of 2019 are known on the basis of which next year's budget proposal was drawn up. Mr President is right, of course, that once we are approaching the beginning of next year, there is always more and more information available, we can draw up more and more projections on macroeconomic developments. This uncertainty is overcome by reserves compared to 1 January 2020 and I hope that this greater uncertainty can be bridged by responsible budget planning. On the one hand, I think that the State Audit Office has answered or made a statement in this regard, the Budget Council has said, and I hope that Mr President and the Honourable Parliament will reflect on the figures that show the implementation of budgets in recent years. My first statement is, therefore, that it is possible to present a sound budget to the Honourable Parliament six months before the entry into force of the budget, in terms of the experience of the past years and the documents of organisations independent of the government in the 2020 budget. If the Member, as Mr President, claims that there are under-planned expenditures and over-planned revenues, please point out the items where, in your opinion, contrary to the opinions of two organisations independent of the government, this has been carried out by the government. I do not argue that there may be items where revenues are not met or where extra expenditure is required, which is why we have calculated significant reserves in the 2020 budget, that is to say, in our view, for the main social policy purposes, whether it be family support or wage increases that can be available, even if, unlike our plans, growth figures do not turn out to be the way we are calculating it now, because of global economic risks. As far as pensions are concerned, and the policy followed by the government is not only a Member, but also a Member, Mr Lajos Korózs, who has also explained how the value of pensions has evolved in recent years. I think that the most important thing is the obligation under the Fundamental Law, namely: the real value of pensions must be preserved. The government held on to this commitment, and if someone looks at how inflation figures turn out, I hope they can confirm, even President László Varju, that in many cases fact inflation was lower than the number planned in the budget. Therefore, after 2010, the real value of pensions increased by more than 10 percent. If inflation is higher than the 2.8 percent inflation now calculated in 2020 and the extra pension supplement guarantees the government, under its statutory obligation, that pensions will maintain their real value in 2020. In addition, we expect that all pensioners, including small pensioners, medium-term pensioners or higher contributions, can receive a pension premium in 2020, in addition to preserving the real value of pensions, and when we talk about the past, we should also not forget that in many cases pensioners also received additional funds in the form of Elizabeth vouchers. I would also like to comment on the comments of Mr Lajos Korózs, in that he said that even in the case of a brother and sister, if one person retires a few years later than the other, the latter could receive a much bigger pension. [[15.30]] Please, yes. Because, in addition to preserving the real value of pensions, wages are rising at an even higher rate than pensions have risen in recent years. In this respect, I simply cannot interpret the findings from the opposition benches that there would be a wage crisis. There have been indications that the facts, the facts of the KSH, do not confirm. The catch-up of Hungarian wages was significant not only in relation to previous conditions in Hungary in recent years, but also in the European Union context. As regards the use of EU funds, here, Mr President, he said that Mr Minister was making irregular payments linked to quasi-acclaimed EU programmes. If the Member had closely observed Minister's exposé, the Minister's words may have shown that he was a minister about the issuing of EU programmes and the revenue expected from the European Commission. Mr President, as a former Secretary of State, you know very well that all Member States must add a national share to EU aid, i.e. there is a difference between inflowing EU funds and the issuing of partially funded programmes from EU funds. As far as irregularities are concerned, there is no doubt that there are disputes with all Member States, including the European Commission, Hungary, and there are certainly disputes that we are carrying with us from the past. If I can only mention the case of metro 4, then you also know that there are cases where recovery may be possible due to an irregularity, by the government's efforts to address all possible financial risks by overtaking the programmes and to maximise the amount of EU funds used in Hungary. Allow me one more thought here, to reflect on Congressman Tamás Mellár. He mentioned that the inflow of EU funds resulted in the economic results that we have achieved. I think it is positive that the Member has recognised from opposition benches the figures that the statistics justify and which I trust can be seen in everyday life, for example, by raising wages or increasing the amount of pensions. However, let me mention that if only EU funds were to determine whether there is growth in one country or not, Greece would soar, a country that has been a net beneficiary of EU aid for more than three decades. I therefore think that taking away the country's success and the positive feeling of this from everyone by getting good, good, EU funding, I think it is a serious and, if I may say, a misconception, a misrepresentation. Yes, using EU funds well adds to the expansion of the economy, but it is not only the existence or absence of EU funds that determines whether there is growth in a country or not. This is supported by Hungarian and international examples. As regards the evolution of VAT, it has also been said from the Jobbik benches that VAT revenues are significantly increasing. We all know that the tax revenue of the central budget depends on the rate of taxation on the one hand and on the size of the tax bases on the other. What's the count? With the economic growth that has been seen in recent years, it will continue in 2020. This economic expansion is accompanied by an increase in the number of employees and wages, and this extra income will result in additional consumption, i.e. the tax bases will be significantly widened, resulting in a higher tax base overall in 2020 at a lower tax rate compared to 2019. Why am I mentioning the lower tax rate? For example, there will be a reduction in tax rates for accommodation VAT in 2020, as we have seen in 2019 and in previous years. Of course, we also need to work on how we can generate additional revenues by whitening the economy. As far as the so-called Maastricht requirements are concerned, Mr President knows precisely that if we look back on the Hungarian economic history, and we do not have to look so far, then we certainly did not have as positive figures as we can see now in terms of Maastricht requirements. This is true of the level of debt, this is true of the level of deficit, this is true of the level of price stability, even if inflation is now somewhat higher than in the previous period. I would add that inflation is primarily responsible for the central bank, which has set an accuracy of 3 per cent plus or minus 1 per cent, and this is also true for, for example, the long-term interest rate on sovereign debt. Mr President, Congressman, you know exactly the price we had to finance public debt a number of years ago, and you know exactly what level of debt we are financing now. The point I would like to make of all this is that we can actually say that we have never been as good as we are now with regard to the Maastricht criteria. Congressman also knows that there are a number of countries where the debt ratio was above 60% at the time of the introduction of the euro. Let's look at the Greece already mentioned, or let's look at Belgium or Italy, where they pay EUR, they never had a debt ratio below 60 per cent. If you confirm this, Mr President, you know precisely that in the Maastricht requirements, the EU bodies decide that if a criterion has a higher indicator than the numerical number in EU rules, but the trend shows that, for example, public debt is on a declining path, then it is possible to join the euro area. I believe that these figures, which show that we can count on a stable economy overall in the 2020 budget, show that our public finances are developing positively, and that we are on a path that confirms the level of development by EU standards. If we look beyond this at the numbers of real convergence, or if I have to say, in the words of everyday life, the economic growth that has been achieved in Hungary, which has been constantly greater than the average of the Union since the turn of growth in 2013, when we look at wages, where wage growth is greater than the EU's catch-up, when we look at how the unemployment rate has evolved and how this figure has fallen at the forefront of Europe, we see that we are on a good track not only with regard to the so-called Maastricht criteria, but also with regard to other factors showing economic development beyond that. I would like to ask the Parliament to also assess these past processes, the results of the economic policy of the last few years, when we are talking about the 2020 budget, because the 2020 budget contains practically the continuation of the economic policy seen in recent years, which is based on the priority of work and family, which is based on keeping the economy on a growing path in close contact with each other, thanks to the number of jobs and wage increases. I trust that if we can keep the economy on a growing path, the budgetary stability will remain in 2020. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-19-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr László Földi, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2019-06-19-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Before talking about the budget for next year in concrete terms, let me mention a few things from the constituency and at national level, which are of great importance and merit, I should point out with self-confidence and modesty to the government of the national side that may be exposed from the proposal before us even to our most rigorous critics, provided that they do not want to argue with the Gregory calendar as well. Back in the day, I remember when I was mayor, when the socialist government was in power, at the end of December the state budget was adopted, and we had to make a budget of it by mid-February. What a sweaty job it was to have a budget for the city for three to four weeks after Christmas! Now I am convinced that the planning that we have ahead of us is proof of responsible, forward-looking and responsible farming. I also remember that several people mentioned wage increases from opposition benches here, for example in 2002, when teachers' wages were raised by 50 percent in September, we received three months' coverage, and from January 2003 the municipality had to cover the wage increase from its own income, which was still on loan, I note. [[15.40]] The current wage increases, which take place either on the pedagogue front or in health care or law enforcement, do not take place on credit, but on the goods produced by the country in addition to the previous year. So what I'm saying is that with this budget that's ahead of us, the future has become predictable. Let us not underestimate the importance of this. There is no community in Hungary that would not benefit from having the state set out the directions it can support six months before the following year, and it lays out clear, consensusary principles. The Fidesz-KDNP government is the government of families and security. Accordingly, next year's budget will also be taken into account in the sense of family and security, as well as the budget for tax reduction and development, in the sense of the word, as well as in terms of ideas and financiality; our principles as fundamentals are unchanged. We stretch as far as our blanket goes. Of course, we would like to have as large blankets as possible, but this will only be possible if GDP increases at a reasonable pace, which we have a realistic chance of, since GDP growth of around 4 per cent can be achieved in the following year as well. We also have an important principle of continuing to offer people jobs instead of aid. Our conviction and the domestic and international experience of recent years have only confirmed that intelligent, honest, well-paid creative-production work is the basis for a successful life, the strength to sustain and unite families, and also the example for the generations to come. Thirdly, we represent with unwavering pride that the basic unit of society, the family, is a value above all, the state's support of which brings a wide range of benefits to the nation, and only one of which is the hopeful coming of a demographic turn due to the successful encouragement of childbearing. Fourthly, we continue to believe that growth is not without security. Protecting our achievements, smart, cautious preparation for a possible world economic slowdown is as important to us as the growth of the national total product. The 2020 budget was born in this spirit. I would like to thank, on behalf of myself and my fellow political groups, Minister of State, and all those who have prepared this draft and placed it on our table. Ladies and gentlemen, We Christian Democrats consider the support of the family to be the most important task of the state. In our worldview, in our social model, the ideal family is a strong emotional and economic unity of a man and a woman based on mutual acceptance, the main purpose of which is, if possible, to ensure each other's safety and raise children. That is what our faith teaches. For us, therefore, the ministry of family affairs is not only a political goal, but also a duty of faith. This is why we welcome the government's noble intention to create a family-friendly Hungary as well as full employment. Next year nearly HUF 2228 billion will be available for the Hungarian families. That's almost 224 billion more than this year. This money goes to the right place; for example, the implementation of the family protection action plan, which the KDNP fraction wholeheartedly supports. Baby shower support, reduced credit for home creation, taking over the mortgage on children's children, the car shopping programme for large families, nursery construction, the tax exemption for mothers with four children, the introduction of grandparents' children, the free textbook provision that will become full from the 2020-21 academic year will not remain an unrequited promise, since its cover is in the draft budget in white. It is a big word in a country that has already suffered a left-wing government that has announced a five - year - old tax reduction programme, knowing that it would be withdrawn that year because it was all a lie. Full employment remains an important goal. We want everyone who wants and knows to work in Hungary, and that is worth it. Government debt has been declining steadily since 2010, and in line with the relevant constitutional rules, this is also the target for next year. With the 2020 budget, we want Hungary to continue to grow stronger, and that is what all Hungarians should feel in their daily lives. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the thousands of years, the Hungarian nation has learned well at its own expense that it is not his to obtain, but what it can keep. It is therefore very important that next year's budget does not save when it comes to protecting our country and our achievements together. We have said it many times, but it cannot be enough: the migration crisis has not ended. The heat of the world's crisis and climate change still drive millions of people to hurl at Europe's welfare societies. Our continent is still under attack. Our economic achievements, our Christian culture, our Western way of life are still in danger. Western Europe has learned from the sacrifice of innocent citizens that terrorism, anti-Semitism and misogynism come with migrants. Hungary, however, defended itself. The legal and physical borders are closed, and as long as the national side is authorised by voters, Hungary will not be an immigrant country. This commitment is also reflected in the next year's budget, in which we significantly increase the resources for public security and defence, for example by doubling the latter. I note that military spending is also an important step towards NATO, as we have obligations there. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2020 budget is also a budget for tax cuts. The aim remains to reduce and reduce taxes on work, businesses and families. Next year, families and first married people will receive a larger discount of HUF 380 billion than ever before. As a politician in Pest County, which also represents small settlements, I particularly welcome the launch of the village CSOK and the support for tax refunds for those who create homes in such places. Businesses can enjoy reducing the VAT on the property tax next year by kiva, people living in tourism. It is possible that we can reduce taxes in all areas because the Hungarian economy is stable. Hungarian is one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe, but this does not mean that there are no potential sources of danger. Global growth has slowed down, commercial tensions seem to be perpetuating, and eurozone forecasts are also warning caution. However, we have the hope that the Hungarian economy will continue to exceed the average growth in Europe by 2 percentage points next year. Dear House, Allow me to give you one or two more examples, all the more so, because I live in a place where agriculture, for example, has a major role to play. Let me point out that, for example, the Agri-Entrepreneurship Loan Guarantee will manage 5 billion more money next year, or it is particularly important that the government supports the increase in irrigated areas by HUF 17 billion per year over the next ten years. What is now on the table is the development of research: about 32 billion more money will be spent on research and development than it was in 2019. Among the budgetary developments in my constituency, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it was the Orbán government that freed our settlements from their debts, and then provides Pest County with a separate development resource to replace EU subsidies due to membership of the capital city in a region. With this money important improvements, investments were made, roads were built, medical clinics were renovated, nursery schools were renewed. By the end of this year, the M4 road will reach the M0 ring, and next year the M4 will reach Szolnok two lanes. [[15.50]] My joy would be full if three major developments had been made or could have been achieved in the constituency in the coming years. These three important areas are the issue of the bicycle route between Cegléd and Nagykőrös, the case of the bike route between Csemő-Cegléd and the case of the renovation of Kossuth High School in Cegléd. To do so, I will ask for government assistance and support, if and if the budget allows funds to be provided for them. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kossuth said: "Let the nation be faithful to itself; everything can be saved. There can only be a nation that has renounced itself. Well, I see that the Hungarian nation has not given up on itself, but has recovered, regained consciousness, and has taken his destiny into his hands. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP fraction supports the draft budget for next year, and I ask my fellow Members to support the budget, because the KDNP fraction, along with Fidesz, says that the Hungarian people are the first and the family first. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Group of the LMP will address Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-19-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I would like to summarize in a sentence our opinion on the budget at the beginning, that, unfortunately, you have submitted the budget for the use of the future to Parliament, and the LMP is submitting a budget for preparing for the future, an alternative to the Parliament. We are going to make a lot of amendments in this regard, and I am also expressing my hope that there may be an amendment that will find your support. The fact is that each government decides for itself what the priorities on which it wants to spend are, and it is also a fact that very important conceptual differences can develop. Therefore, LMP does not dispute that you can determine the priorities for which more money is spent, by which you spend less, by what taxes are levied and by how you carry out the so-called redistribution. It is natural for us to make our criticisms about this, if there is a positive one, I think that we also recognise this, but there are fundamental conceptual differences in our ideas. Even because the budget for living the future, which you have submitted, is focused, unfortunately, once again on the fact that it drives GDP growth as much as possible, and unfortunately does not focus on quality, and it does not focus on the focus and focus on how Hungarian people will feel about it on their skin. Clearly, there's more money in the budget. I think that this is a very positive thing, and it seems that more resources are being provided for achieving certain objectives in several areas, but the mistake is that the use of these resources, the efficiency and transparency of their spending are not guaranteed for the Hungarian people either. I think that it is a very serious mistake that we have repeatedly pointed out in recent years that they have not touched this huge mandate that you have received from the Hungarian electorate, the large supply systems that have been essentially transformed since the change of regime. There were only cosmetics, and unfortunately, where there was, for example, a deeper intervention, I would like to give an example to the Hungarian Defence Forces, where a transformation has now created the command of the military, and there they have typically brought back such a Soviet model. So it is incomprehensible why this is necessary, why they do not look to the future, because this is a budget, we are talking about a quantity of money that could indeed ensure that Hungary can be prepared for the future, and that is what is missing every year. The LMP faction also objects to this every year, and we will do so until this changes. So our conceptual belief is that it is not the eternal pursuit of GDP that is needed, but rather the creation of a circular economy where prosperity and a continuous improvement of quality can be achieved, and people can feel this positive on their own skin. I would like to point out that in the area of security, too, it would be necessary to finally have a still, unfortunately, existing one, I have to say that it is about XIX-XX. From the perspective of the century and the application of such types, such as Soviet models, finally the 21st century. We will take Hungary to the century, and the 21st century will take Hungary to the 21st century. Our security systems can reflect on the challenges of the century. I would like to highlight three areas: the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, it has to be said for each of them that the state is once again not a careful farmer. What does this look like in the Home Office, for example? Of course, there's extra money there, but it's incomprehensible why we still can't raise the civil servant's salary after more than ten years. Policemen, firefighters, are now counting the civil servants' salary base as disaster protection, and there is a very urgent need for an increase. And, by the way, my fellow pro-government Members have rightly said that it is necessary to have a continuous presence on the part of the police, for example. If this organization and other law enforcement organisations are in a continuous shortage of numbers, and the same will also happen in the Hungarian Defence Office, unfortunately, then how can we guarantee security for Hungarians, in the absence of a human being, in the absence of a staff? So when we talk about the need to ensure a proper career, a very important part of it is the salary increase. That hasn't happened to this day. It can be said here, but it still affects a lot of people, such as the police, where a total gross salary increase of HUF 9,000 is 50 percent. Of course, there were differentiated increases, there is a smaller amount, and there is a larger amount, but 50 percent did not. And in the meantime, these organizations have a huge shortage of numbers. We are re-introducing this amendment, according to which the civil servant's salary base and each salary base calculated from it, and in addition, I would add the defence salary base, which has already been hijacked, should be increased to HUF 60,000. And there's the money in the budget, my fellow Members, so you can assign these resources if you really care about security and it's really important for you to be a policeman on the street, be there to protect Hungarian people and guarantee public safety. I would like to point out this as a small matter, but it is still incomprehensible to me why it is necessary to create such opaque situations and to make reasons of mistrust that, to the Ministry of the Interior, helicopters are purchased and given to the police by their own company, the Ministry of Defence, by the Hungarian Defence. These are all built-in factors, tricks that wouldn't otherwise be necessary. I very much hope that it is not again that some kind of pro-government, close-to-government acquaintance, or favourite companies are rich in these shops, because we must stress that every forint that the Hungarian people want to protect their country should be at the Hungarian Defence Office and its place at the law enforcement agencies. Switching to the Ministry of Defence chapter, it's the same thing. The defense stipend is now 44 600 HUF, it is very right that there has been an increase in this. However, this is not enough to ensure that the number of people can rise properly, as we are still talking about a shortage of thousands of people. For this reason, a salary of 60,000 HUF is also needed here. [[16.00]] There is a need for a national security strategy finally to be adopted, and for a consensus to be reached. Yes, the Hungarian Defence Office needs improvements and tools, as the tools are very outdated, but these need to be purchased transparently. And question, because it is very good that there will be helicopters and new technical equipment: who will be the crew of this ship, where will there be more pilots, where will there be more soldiers in the Hungarian Army? So the military is also the greatest force of personnel to expand this, to create conditions, and not always to shape laws and frameworks for an increasingly deteriorating situation. So there is a need for meaningful solutions here, too. There's the problem at the Honvéd Hospital. I can see in the budget that the Honvéd Hospital is going to receive nearly HUF 3 billion plus, but this is related to the introduction of a new military employment relationship, which, by the way, has left the institution quite a lot of doctors and nurses, unfortunately, and they are extremely difficult to replace. But the question is, where will there be enough doctors, where will there be enough nurses to care for patients who arrive as one of the largest hospitals with regional care; and then I did not even mention a qualified period of time, that it is a question that this institution would be able to carry out its tasks at all. So it is a huge responsibility to provide sufficient resources in the budget and to make it properly used. It is in Hungary's national interest that the defence budget reaches 2 percent of GDP, and the LMP has repeatedly proposed that this should not happen in 2024 and in 26 months, but in 2022; this is in the interests of the Hungarian people, unfortunately we do not see any increase in the budget that could ensure this. Moreover, these developments and use of resources should always be labelled in the budget, and I think that taxpayers deserve so much transparency and not try to hide it from the public through exemptions from all kinds of public procurement. But I am very pleased that our many lawsuits have had at least enough power to show some things in the budget, such as the purchase of helicopters and the purchase of some technical equipment, so at least this is mentioned in a few lines in the budget. I hope it gets even more transparent, by the way. Thus, the conceptual difference is that, in our view, a real professional force is needed, not the creation of any kind of parallel forces and reserve systems, which are incredibly large and will consume huge resources, but a healthy reserve system based on a sufficient level of volunteering and real volunteering is required. With regard to the chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would like to point out that although the establishment or capital increase of the International Investment Bank has not been shown here, fortunately we have found this line, so it has appeared in the budget. The fact that this, by the way, amounts to about HUF 5 billion, which is a very large amount, and the question arises as to why such a large amount is necessary at all, is interesting, but it seems to me that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have tried again to keep secrets about this, and it is incomprehensible to me that if this is in the budget, why my written questions of many weeks and months have not been answered, for example, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, how much this will cost in 2020. We continue to find it unacceptable that Hungary provides a location for the former KGST bank and grants exemptions that no other international institution will receive. So it's a shame to argue that if there were a return answer, which I would be very happy to see other financial institutions get such exemptions. No, they don't. To this day, we have yet to find out why there is a need for cipher for this financial institution. To date, they refuse to answer how the rules against money laundering and terrorist financing will be enforced within the framework of this financial institution, because it is clear that you have granted exemptions that the Hungarian authorities will not be able to act at any point on this bank. So whoever this bank brings here will no longer be checked by the Hungarian authorities, they will be able to enter Hungary without limit, who holds money and is a client, it will be impossible for the authorities to control it. I believe that this is completely unacceptable, and this again weakens the system of protection against foreign influence. Therefore, when you are talking about Hungary's sovereignty, it is very right, yes, it needs to be talked about, and it must be implemented, and nothing should prejudice Hungary's independence, for example, this is precisely what you are trying to do with such measures as giving this bank such opportunities in Hungary. With regard to Eximbank, it can also be seen that there are a lot of credit lines opened in every relation, but this is essentially not being used afterwards, so it actually smells a bit of communication. It would be better if these resources were actually used for the purpose, and that would be the case. It was also clear that the establishment of a system of trading houses, for example, was a serious mistake. Finally, it was removed, and it was transformed, because it seemed that it had not fulfilled the expectations it had given. The relevance would be that Hungarian economic operators should be given greater space, help their activities, and do so through an elected municipality, such as the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, whose operation, control and local government should, of course, be strengthened, but this would make sense. The view is, therefore, that the state has a monopoly on foreign trade, an approach before an absolute change of regime, so it is long overdue, and it is no coincidence that these efforts and these institutions that you have set up did not bring the expected results, but have also accumulated a great deal of debt, because we remember talking about 6-7-8 billion forints in the trading houses, which had to be replaced afterwards. It is also quite clear in the field of foreign affairs that a comprehensive Foreign Service Act is needed, not legislation relating to foreign representations, which will otherwise be amended in a few months' time. At least the fourth to fifth amendment of the law that was before the House the other day, so we are talking about total incalculability. And if it is an external activity, then I would like to ask the representatives of the government here once again that international negotiations, bilateral and multilateral negotiations, transactions and economic actions are transparent, because at the moment, it is necessary to inform the foreign press, and always in that country, the other ministry of that relation, the website of which you have done business, are planning on behalf of the Hungarian people, and unfortunately, it has to be said, very often to the detriment of the Hungarian people, because, for example, there is little benefit for the Hungarian people from having a Russian helicopter assembly plant here in Hungary, and you are lobbying for this, or, for example, the way that you have played for the Russians the Danube Vehicle Repair Plant, on which they were also unwilling to answer questions. They're all not! help to guarantee Hungary's sovereignty. I think that, in the future, the interests of large foreign companies, rather than the interests of large foreign companies, should finally be taken into account, and this should define politics, and this should also play a huge role in the classical sense of security. One of the important guarantees of the security of the Hungarian people is that our country has flexible and quality security structures, obviously including the forces, which are actually capable of the 21st century. To respond to the challenges of the century. Each forint that people want to protect has its place in these security structures, and not in the pockets of government-related companies or individuals who are victims of all kinds of corruption risks. And it is also clear that a stable and alliance-based foreign policy and diplomacy are necessary in order for our country's ability to assert its interests to be meaningful again. [[16.10]] I would like to draw attention to a very important foundation, namely that international policy must also be implemented in such a way that it is committed to future generations and that it is unfortunately not possible for you to achieve this in the last year. And, of course, it is very important to strengthen economic relations, but all economic agreements that result in sudden and disproportionate influence or dependence on Hungarian relations must be eliminated, so that you can also rethink them in any way. In public and governmental structures, as we have said many times, there must be a basis for preventing foreign power gain and restoring national sovereignty. And if we are talking about challenges, I am very pleased that you have also mentioned, for example, the issue of migration. The migration crisis, yes. There's a migration crisis. When talking about this, a responsible approach should not be a propaganda text, but a meaningful action in combating, for example, climate change. After all, those climate refugees who can start in the next decade may be so many that a piece of fence on the southern border will certainly not stop them. Therefore, substantial measures are needed. The protection of the EU's external borders must be strengthened, such as Hungary's own external borders. Appropriate preparation for the stock must, of course, be ensured, and, for example, when we are talking about the Balkan countries, cooperation in the Balkans should be strengthened in this area, so that there is a forecasting system that can correctly predict the processes. I am pleased that my colleague from the government nods at this point of view, because when we talk about strengthening relations and cooperation in the Balkans, I do not think that, for example, the former Prime Minister of Macedonia should be brought to Hungary. This is not the way, because it is clear what the government is doing now: it is trying to build positions for itself in the Balkans. This is all about bringing in a fallen former Macedonian Prime Minister, who, by the way, fell for using the secret services completely illegally to monitor political opponents, journalists and civilians. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs negotiates with this man in an apartment whose owner may have come here to Hungary with settlement bonds, and one of the governmental interests, for example, managed this construction. And by the way, Nikola Gruevski helped me get the Habony Media position in Macedonia. It's a pretty interesting coincidence. So when it comes to acquiring a position in the Balkans and strengthening it, I suggest that the government should not think about such transactions in Gruevski, but should actually do so for the security of the Hungarian people and, for example, take meaningful steps in relation to the migration crisis. Unfortunately, that's exactly what we don't see from you, by the way. That's why I think it's empty words that have been said about this. It is also certain that it is necessary to prioritise the strengthening of adequate capabilities to respond effectively to new types of security challenges. And what do we mean by that? In order for these tasks to be carried out successfully, the organizations responsible for the security of the country, such as the Hungarian Defence Forces, the law enforcement agencies, also include national security services and, for example, close cooperation between the local and central bodies of the NAV and the Hungarian administration, and a very clear division of tasks between them. So when I say that there are unfinished restructuring situations, for example, we think about this, and I think that we will talk about these issues in the next few minutes before the Parliament. So, in our opinion, a completely different approach is needed to ensure that, at last, the interests of the Hungarian people are not the priority for you, but the interests of the Hungarian people. Instead of multinational companies, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises should finally be strengthened, thus increasing the crisis-proofness of the Hungarian economy and, of course, the standard of living of the people. The transition to sustainability in social and economic policy and security is also very important. Therefore, instead of creating systems that are barked up, it is necessary to implement flexible systems. That is why we are asking you to support and incorporate the amendments that the LMP Group has tabled so that we can finally not talk about the budget for living the future this year, but a budget for preparing for the future. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-06-19-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-19-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, During the debate on the Budget Act, it would be possible to reflect on the 27 percent world record VAT, the almost world record aggregate tax content of gas oil and petrol, the different administrative and tax burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as on the fact that the small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises are in many cases considered by the authorities set up by your government and managed by your people to be the same dairy cows and huntable prey as they were before 2010. However, I would like to share with you a few thoughts about my narrower environment, the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg and my constituency, in particular on budgetary issues concerning Matthew Salka and Chengert. Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is an area and county that is undeservingly forgotten and well below par value, which is strange, because if we look at the results of the EP elections for example, we can see that you should hold Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County and the people who live there much higher than the results of the EP elections, because after Vas County, it has brought the second strongest, best results for Fidesz-KDNP. Compared to this, if we look at, say, Vas County, Western Transdanubia, Central Transdanubia and Central Hungary's development of Darius treasure chamber, then we see that Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, indeed, receives much less benefits from this imaginary table. I do not dispute that they exist, there are, there are small developments, institutional renovations, small industrial park expansions, but the surroundings of Mátészalka and Chenger see very little of this, although generally the Szabolcsi people see their average net value of 138 thousand forints, yes, it is very difficult to allocate, and it is very difficult to come out of this amount from the beginning of the snow to the end of the month. I have long believed that we are not equal citizens of this country. The governments before 2010 can say anything, they can tell you anything, unfortunately the numbers and the facts are stubborn things, and I see that although we pay the same taxes, we fulfil the same obligations, but somehow we do not benefit from the odds and opportunities to the extent that the diligence, performance and attitude of the people of Szabolcs County would also provide a legal basis. In particular, I would like to bring back to this House three priority issues concerning my region, and I hope that I will have the opportunity to talk about them for a long time. Although I do hope that I may be able to tell you next year that I am off these issues because you have implemented them. One is immediately the question of the hospital in Mátészalka. In Mátészalka, the nearly 100-year-old monument building was demolished, driven by a completely foreign logic from common sense, and we got a plastic box instead, and the 750 million forints of resources that I have been demanding for years to buy modern diagnostic and testing equipment, modern ultrasound, digital X-rays, MRI-CT equipment, diagnostic tools to diagnose eye diseases, you somehow regret the people of Mátészalka and Bell. Like they've been promising to build the M49 expressway for 20 to 25 years. I know that the public procurement procedure has been launched for planning recently, but it would be nice to not only talk on paper about the M49 road, but also to build at least the first kilometer. In order to reach the path of this path at least to Oxyton, I calculate it would take about 15-20 billion forints. But as soon as he got this from the Western Transdanubia or Central Hungary in the construction of several motorways, it is very right that he got it, the people of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, the people of Mátészalka and Csenger, deserve it. According to the 2006 traffic census data, Kocsordon and Mátészalka, after the traffic from Tiszabecs and Csengersima became heavy on these settlements, 10 320 vehicles passed in 24 hours, in 2010, this number increased to over 16 thousand, and since then the most modest estimates are that the number of vehicles turning every 24 hours in these settlements is over 20 thousand. I am sure that if it hit or affected the neighbourhood of Felcsút, these problems would have been solved long ago. [[16.20]] So please don't feel sorry for the money from the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, the neighbourhood of Mátészalka and Chenger, especially as the Prime Minister promised us this at the end of 2016, at the end of the Romanian election campaign and on 4 May 2017. As the Prime Minister promised to build the prison in Jinger on 4 May 2017, this would require approximately HUF 10-12 billion. But as the prison-building program for the construction of the entire nine prisons has been canceled or at least iced, it certainly doesn't look like it's going to happen in Chenger either. About 80 people left their jobs to retrain themselves to the Bv area. These people are waiting, waiting, and perhaps in Sopronkőhida, across the country, they might be able to get jobs. If you are not able to regret the many times the 10-12 billion of this country's more developed regions, then please do not feel sorry for us either, so at least for the development of the Mátészalka hospital, at least for the construction of the M49 road and for the construction of the bell prison, and for the expansion of the bell and the Mátészalka industrial park. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] please provide budgetary resources. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-19-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa asked for the floor from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-19-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I'd like to respond to three things. With MEP László Varju DK, we are not surprised that he had to read the quote in paper so that you wouldn't lie. He didn't meet this quote many times, so he needed paper to spell out the quote that he shouldn't lie. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] We know that they are worth interpreting your speech in the morning, in the night and in the evening, from now on in this framework as well. It is strange that the Gyurcsány pro-president is calling us to account for lying about the budget, when László Varju was the Secretary of State of the Gyurcsány government that falsified the budgetary data, which hid the state of public finances from the Hungarian voters and even the Hungarian institutions, who were wrong by a thousand billion forints, I would quote that they were wrong, they were wrong by a thousand billion forints in the budget to be sent to Brussels and presented to Hungarian voters. He was the secretary of state of the government that indicated a 4.7 percent deficit in his prognosis, and then suddenly it jumped to 9.4 percent by the end of the year. I would also like to point out to Mr Korós that it is relatively strange for us that he insults the rise in wages, why wages are rising in Hungary, it is a bad thing, he claims that this is a bad thing. But at least this way we understand why wages didn't rise before 2010 because it's not important for the socialists, it's a bad thing if wages rise. We have learned from Congressman Korózs that this is not a good thing if wages have risen in Hungary. After all, there is a special charm when we hear from the former Socialist Member, Márta Demeter, about Russian agents and the service of multinational companies. After all, you were the MSZP representative who brought Russian agents into Hungary to the national security services, and you were a member of a party that served all multinational interests and danced like multinational corporations whistled. So obviously there's a discreet charm that you're throwing these questions at us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Márta Demeter: That's very funny!]]
u2019-06-19-62	I just want to inform the congresswoman that I can only give you time for personal assault because the LMP has basically used its timeframe, and I don't think nine seconds is appropriate. [[Márta Demeter: What my fellow Member said is frivolous, so I will not use it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much. We will move on to the following round speeches. From the Fidesz Group, I give the floor to Mr Barna Pál Sigismund. Here you go.
u2019-06-19-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, Neither the third-thirds nor the outstanding economic growth were presented as a gift, Hungary worked hard for both. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in his February annual speech. And indeed, there is a deep correlation between politics and the economy, the results are never due to blind luck.In 2009, the left-wing terror government bankrupted the country, and the voters thanked it, so in 2010 Fidesz won the elections, and in recent years it has been managed to restore the economy, which was recognised by the voters by the re-election of Fidesz. Indeed, our government has a great responsibility, as we need to put before people a budget that is predictable and secure in this changing world against previous practice before 2010. This work has succeeded, and I would like to congratulate the Minister for Finance and his team, Mihály Varga. This has been confirmed here in Parliament's debate by both the Fiscal Council and the State Audit Office that this is a viable, predictable, prudent budget, and what is very important, as Minister Varga stressed, is that there is more money in the budget for everything than there has been in the last year. I would like to highlight some of the results. More than 800,000 new jobs have been created, wages have increased, average earnings have increased by 11 percent in one year, employment has increased from 55 to 70 percent, unemployment has virtually disappeared, incomes are constantly raised by the government, and once again, the minimum wage has more than doubled. The main result, perhaps, in the budget, is that support for families has grown and increased, so we can rightly call this budget a budget for support for families. As we have said, I would also like to reiterate that we are not imagining the future of Hungary with immigrants, but with the support of Hungarian children and families with children, and in discussing the 2020 budget, one of the perhaps most important and essential topics is the support of future generations, namely youth, young people and families and families. The Hungarian government developed the family protection action plan on the basis of strong ideas, and we remember when the Prime Minister announced it in February. But we are the government that keeps its promises, has been able to work out the details in a few months, and several measures will enter into force and will enter into force shortly. We would like to ensure that young people in Hungary do not have to struggle with difficulties and financial barriers in starting a family. I would like to reiterate the measures taken in the seven-point action plan. Therefore, as of 1 July 2019, the baby shower allowance will be implemented, the interest-supported housing loan extended to customers of used housing, the extension of the childbearing allowance for mortgage loans and the car purchase programme for large family members. From 2020 onwards, the personal income tax exemption and the grandparents' children and, from now on, the cradle development programme will be implemented. These measures complement existing family support measures, which are still in force, perhaps the most important one here is the institution of family taxation, which is exemplary. All of this shows that Hungary has family-centred governance. I'm sure you can argue that more could be given or given in a different way, but I think that the government is doing everything at the moment and is literally reaching deep into its pockets in order that the, always, can give more sentence a little bit more now and spend as much as possible in support of families. As State Secretary Katalin Novák pointed out, young people in Hungary have never received so much support for family formation and childbearing as they do now. We would like the years 2019 and the coming 2020 to be based on the full support of families, and the measures to be introduced will encourage children more than ever. Hungary's economic situation now allows the government to spend more money on young married people, children. It is also important to emphasise that, in addition to supporting the family, the government intends to devote significant resources to educational, educational and cultural programmes that serve the right development of young people. Here I would like to mention the support for the first successful language exam, but here we can talk about the provision of scholarships, the national talent program, the increase of higher education grants, the free textbooks or the free meal. In Europe, as has already been said, Hungary spends most of the money to support families in proportion to GDP. Among other things, the government, with the Family Protection Action Plan, sends a message that raising children is a performance that should be recognised at Community level, at national level. The vast majority of people support family protection measures, as demonstrated by the national consultation. It is a pity that the opposition did not consider it important to participate in the national consultation and, in general, national consultation. If we look around Europe, we see that, although the vast majority of Europe is living their lives in a traditional way, the family is the most important, but there are few people talking about it, and there are also people who disagree with this traditional family model, and in this sense they do not agree with our government plans. [[16.30]] The biggest problem in Western Europe is that family support is treated as a taboo and only deals with how migration is compensated for the deficit caused by falling birth rates, but they do not raise the real question, namely why the population decline is caused. I am also a member of the Council of Europe delegation, and I am saddened to see that when we talk about a traditional family in the Council of Europe, many turn away and very few publicly take on this traditional family model. The Council of Europe recently adopted a recommendation on rainbow families. So this is the European trend, so it is very important that we not only talk about the Hungarian sample at home, but also talk about it at international level, and let us tell others that it is the traditional family that is important for us, and we believe that this family support system, which the Hungarian government has developed, can reverse the demographic situation. Fortunately, we can talk about the traditional family in Hungary, because we treat the family, the child as a value, and the most important result of the whole family protection action plan is not so much the support system, but the fact that the family is at the heart of the public discourse. You can talk about family again, you can talk about having children, if you like, become a big family, you don't have to be ashamed because you live in a big family. Remember, there have been times like this, and our large family friends talk a lot about how 20 to 30 years ago they laughed at many large families and ridiculed me for living in a large family. Today, this trend has turned around, thank God, the big family has become fashionable again, the many children have become fashionable. With these measures, the Hungarian Government intends to contribute to these burdens, to support families, who take on more children. In the meantime, what did the opposition do? After all, let us not forget our oppositional friends, because here they promise to heat and crack, they criticize everything, but unfortunately there was a time in Hungary when they were at the helm. Ferenc Gyurcsány and the socialists have always taken me away from families. Let's remember, let's say it again and again, because they keep telling lies, even if they have to read these lies, they can't do it by heart, although they often do it by heart, so they lie from the head and from the phone and from the writing. [[Uproar, clarity, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks, including: You read it.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány and the socialists have always taken me away from families. Families were the number one target of their austerity. Remember, they took away the family tax relief of one and two children, eliminated the three-year-old child, rejected the home creation program, closed crèches, kindergartens, schools, and made the lives of families raising children more difficult by continuous tax increases. When the situation changed, we came to government and proposed these measures, they never supported these family protection measures, family and child-rearing subsidies, they always voted against it, they never supported the families. Let us recall that the national consultation on family protection was also attacked, some of their representatives went so far as to tear up the consultation sheet openly. We may also remember the production of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, our fellow Member, here in Parliament. Others openly say, as did Tamás Bauer of Gyurcsány, that they see Hungary's future in migrants and not in support of Hungarian families. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] I understand there's an opportunity to ask for the right time. Thank you for listening to me and not yelling at me. Let us also say a few words about what our right-wing fellow Members are constantly saying, once again unsubstantiated [[Nacsa Lárinc: They're lying.]] If you like, they lie, they keep saying...
u2019-06-19-64	Congressman, let's go back to the original schedule.
u2019-06-19-65	All right. So it is constantly said that mass migration continues, while one of the main benefits of the family support system is that very many people move back. After all, if we compare the provisions of the package, we can find that the free textbook, together with free health care provisions, allows returning young people who have worked or studied in Western Europe to obtain housing, and if they are planning a family, they will be in a much better position than if they had stayed in Western Europe. In this respect, too, the family protection action plan and the provisions on support for families in the budget have a very important role to play. I would like to refer to one more line of thought, as well as a representative in Újpest. Several opposition colleagues said that the budget does not address Budapest, that there is no adequate support for Budapest. I would like to stress that there has never been so much development in Budapest in recent years, and there are also a lot of development plans focused on Budapest in the coming years. The Council of Metropolitan Public Developments has been established, which is the top organ of Budapest's development policy and enables a balanced and predictable development policy in Budapest. The government and Budapest worked together on the basis of this development policy, and the budget will also provide funds for this in the coming years. As a result, the development policy in Budapest has become stable, and a number of key developments have been made in recent years, so let this be the case. Metro 3 is finished, it is important that this also affects Újpest, and the design of Metro 3 continues, which allows metro 3 to go to the Cabbage County. This has been promised for 20-30 years, even more than 30 years by various left-wing governments to the people of Újpest, now the metro has renewed to the Újpest centre, and the plan to extend the metro has begun. It is important to point out that, with a programme launched this year, the asphalting of the Budapest roads has begun, which will continue in the following year. Thus, when this program is completed, the roads in the capital will cease. Many public institutions and schools have been renewed thanks to central sources. Several sports investments have been made, the Danube Arena has been built, and the Danube Arena environment, the whole quay, has been renewed. This is all a development that has been implemented with government support. I would like to quote here the programme "Healthy Budapest" which aims to renew the health system in Budapest. The government spends over 700 billion forints for this purpose for several years, thus four center hospitals, 24 co-hospitals and 32 outpatient clinics will be renovated. This also concerns Újpest, the outpatient rehabilitation program, as the Újpest specialist receives government support for more than HUF 800 million. But I could tell you a lot of improvements here, which have been made with government support in Budapest, and the plans that are included in the budget and, thanks to economic results, there are a lot of investments in the private sector, we have never seen as many cranes in the capital as you can see today. Thanks to the developments of the past years, Budapest is one of the most popular tourist destinations, and the nation's capital has won several awards, so I am proud that we do not live in Demszky Budapest, but in a developing capital led by István Tarlós, which is the nation's capital thanks to the developments of recent years. Finally, as Minister Varga has said, the budget aims to protect the economic results achieved and the tax reduction that continues. All these objectives can be achieved in my view of the budget, so I support the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-19-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the negotiation of the 2020 Budget Act, I am trying to address issues and aspects that have not yet been discussed in this House. It would be pointless to repeat the criticisms already made by the opposition, but after the ejaculation from the pro-government benches continues to flow out and carry out results that the numbers do not justify, I try to meet the demands of Secretary of State Banai every time that we strive to speak on a professional basis and strictly in line with the figures on any matter when we discuss matters falling within the remit of the Ministry of Finance. [[16.40]] This budget accounts for 133 billion forints more revenue, which is very welcome, and what is even more welcome is that it reduces the planned deficit by 600 billion, which is simply joyful because it would finally be good to stop the increase in public debt. CXCIV 2011 It was a law voted by the Fidesz Government with Parliament in order to justify to the European Union, on the one hand, the intention to limit the level of public debt in the planning and implementation of the budget, or to increase the level of public debt at most in proportion to the increase in GDP, or to reduce the performance of the economy to the previous level if it is good. We are in a very difficult situation when discussing the budget law, because we are discussing the next budget in the middle of the year, and we are in a particular situation that plans, for example, included in a draft budget law for 2020, cannot in any way be verified by the actual figures of the year in question or even the previous year that has already been completed. In order to make it more understandable what I am talking about, to date, KSH has only officially communicated its GDP figure on 31 December 2017, although, of course, the Government Debt Management Centre is already forecasting a debt-to-GDP ratio of 31 December 2018, but what is interesting is that we still do not officially recognise the rate of GDP that, for example, corresponds at this moment to the rate actually recorded by the Government Debt Management Centre on 31 December 2018. The reason that this is important is that we know, at least now, if we talk about the figures of the next year's budget in the middle of the year, because in this way we cannot in any way verify that these hopes, which the Ministry of Finance sets out in this bill, are the realities. I'll show you in the next few minutes the specific numbers and why I'm suggesting this. CXCIV 2011 Since the entry into force of law, it can be said that until the 2018 budget was planned, the Ministry of Finance was distinguished, designed something that had a chance to achieve, did not kick off with numbers. If we look back on the planned numbers today, we can see that there was a basis for it and that it could actually be implemented. But somehow in 2018, we didn't know what it was, but it got out of control, and the desires were out of control, and from 2018 to 2019 it is counting on a GDP increase and a projected debt-to-GDP ratio that, no matter how we calculate it and no matter how we look at the declarations that have been published since then, as we have just said, we can't know the facts, but from the projected figures, we could already conclude on the debt ratio and the GDP rate that has been achieved, but then in no way will the figures planned for 2019 come out, but the plan for 2020. But I would like to return, simply to show my fellow government members that, of course, there is a reason for criticising the government of the eight years before, since they were likely to receive two thirds in 2010, but let me say that there was an Orbán government between 1998 and 2002, with a minimum debt-to-GDP ratio of 52 percent and a maximum value of 59 percent. And today, we're going to keep competing for 69,5 percent, and the 2020 plan number, so to speak, would be, but we're very afraid it wouldn't. I wanted to tell you this because if I were you, I wouldn't beat my boobs so much that they might be able to go below 70 percent when there was an Orbán government that could keep it under 59 percent for many years. In fact, I would like to tell you that in 2010 and 2011 the new Orbán government has already increased its debt-to-GDP ratio, and indeed it has increased it to a rate that has never before been more than 80 per cent, and we are sinking from this position of over 80 per cent by one or two per year. So it's part of the real facts. In the 2017 budget, the plan number for the government debt was HUF 26 820 billion, the fact, the fact that we already know, as we already know it, was 28 158 billion, which means that the fact of the government debt was indeed increasing compared to the plan. GDP was planned for 2017 at 37 279 billion, but the fact became 38 355 billion, which was positive, since the level of government debt or at least its proportion increased in fact in terms of GDP. Thus, the planned level of government debt did not become 71,9 percent, but the fact became at least 73,4 percent, which is less favourable, but we can at least say that the GDP ratio, GDP, has evolved. The 2018 plan for public debt amounted to 28 043 billion, but the fact was 29 806 billion. Thus, in the previous two years, it can be concluded that the plans and facts of the public debt have unfortunately not been calculated on a well-founded basis, as they have increased compared to the planned one. The 2018 GDP plan is HUF 40 352 billion, which is what I said earlier, unfortunately, although the Ministry of Finance is probably counting on some kind of GDP number by 31 December 2018, but this is not officially published, but we do know that this was announced by the government as well and that all relevant analysts have reported that the GDP increase in 2018 was 4.6 percent. Therefore, if the GDP increase in 2018 was 4.6 percent and we know what the fact number of 2017 was, we can calculate that the GDP figure of 31 December 2018 should be around 40 119 billion. But I would like to stress that, unfortunately, we do not know this officially yet, and, by the way, the representative of the Ministry of Finance has not spoken about this, because, as we can see, two years ago, historical figures and previous plans are not included in the budget planning. The Government Debt Management Center projected a debt-to-GDP ratio of 70.8 per cent by 31 December 2018, but the problem is that if you look at the quarterly figures of the Government Debt Management Centre in 2018, you will see that 72 per cent was not less than the end of any quarter. It has to be quite a miracle, and I must say, I have not seen a country that has been able to achieve this in 90 days to reduce the government debt-to-GDP ratio by 3 percent, especially by planning a deficit and creating a deficit in the given budget year. In 2019 the government debt plan was 30,890 billion, while the GDP plan was 43,934 billion. This is what I said to the Secretary of State at the hearing of the budget law of the previous year that this, I apologize for it, is an excessive desire, especially if compared to the 2018 plan, would have taken at least 8-9 percent to achieve such a wish. Of course, we don't know if we've reached it yet, because it's June 2019, and it'll take at least six months to figure out how it's going to end. I would be very happy if this were the end, but I can also tell the Members of this House that, at the moment, the moderate analysts and the government, with their own statement, said that it seems that this year there will be a 5.2 percent increase. 5.2 percent increase with a 4.6 percent increase in the previous year, well, I don't think we can reach more than 42 000 billion GDP because the figures are numbers. [[16.50]] So the numbers cannot be confused, there can be no other explanation, there is no simpler fact in the world. This is only important because this year amounts to more than 48 000 GDP of nearly 49 000 billion, starting from which when it determines that it wants to bring the debt-to-GDP ratio down to 68.3 per cent. But if the government is constantly planning to make 31,974 billion this year's debt plan, we hope it won't be, if we don't reach 48,779 billion, then I'll apologize, however I count, for more than 75 percent of the government debt-to-GDP ratio. And I didn't tell you that last year, if you remember, Mr. Secretary, I said that this is a gambling budget. I'm not saying this now, because, thank God, it starts with more distinguishable numbers, although this GDP is a bit excessive, but I would suggest that the EUR 311 has been charged for the, 19 budget, and I have looked at it in the last 200 days, that the euro has not been under 313. Oh, and the average euro rate was 320 forints, and I'm talking about this year. I think that, since this year's experience was that it was unable to reach the planned EUR 311 or to throw away the average euro-forint exchange rate, it expects at least EUR 320,9 forints for the next year, which I said was finally marked by caution in the government. But I certainly think that, and this is extremely bad for Members, who would like the budget that they are voting for to be somewhat justified that these two issues, which I have just spoken about, are currently unstable in relation to GDP, public debt-to-GDP, planned public debt and growth compared to actual GDP figures. I do not say that the gambling budget, because this 2020 has been prepared with much greater caution than the previous 2019, but I definitely think that it raises questions and I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply on this issue. Finally, allow me to respond to the suggestion of a number of pro-government representatives and opposition representatives. Lőrinc Nacsa left, but what I can tell him is that what he was talking about, for example, about the incredible sacrifice of the government in terms of poverty and defence, the Ministry of Defence has been literally starved for years, and former Minister Csaba Hende was in a continuous, humiliating and horrific situation because of the extremely low level of defence spending and expected results. The eradication of poverty has still not been successful. What I can tell you is that when my fellow Christian Democrat talks about the advantages that they give to the citizens of the country, that with all the benefits that are shown, for example, by this budget law, and which is constantly being talked about as a family support system, less than 10 percent of Hungarian society can live on. So at least do that, if you are talking about families, always add that the families you love by the government, because unfortunately 90 percent of Hungarian society cannot benefit from them. My fellow Member, Mr Barna Bál, said that there is no such family support system in Europe. I just don't understand how you can say that. It's just not true! It is not true, nor can it, nor can it confirm it with numbers or country names: in every country they strive to create a welfare society and provide the necessary resources for it. I would just say to Ferenc Gyurcsány that he was so cleverly telling how to govern here and how to give people money to run the economy and how to involve society more in redistribution; I would just like to tell him that he had six years to do this. So I don't want someone who's already steered, who's made that two-thirds, to either one of us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-19-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor from the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-19-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to some specific points. Firstly, Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea, if I remember correctly, said that there were significant differences in the implementation of the budget compared to the plans. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I didn't say that.]] If I quote inaccuracies, I apologise, Mrs Congresswoman, for referring to the fact that the debt figure has changed, the GDP numbers are not known. Well, first of all, I would like to say that in recent years the main figures of the budget presented by the Government and approved by the Parliament have been fulfilled. By this, I mean not only that we were able to keep the general government deficit within the limits, I mean not only that we were able to reduce the debt ratio, but also that the underlying macroeconomic assumptions of the budget have been met, thanks to God, in many cases they have been overachieved, whether it be GDP growth or wage dynamics. I would like to turn to the conclusion that the number of GDP in 2018 is unknown. It is natural for all EU countries to have a GDP revision that can go back years. I would like to mention that we see such positive differences in terms of the growth of Hungarian GDP and the measurement of the performance of the Hungarian economy. However, I have to rebut that the 2018 figures would not be presented by the government. The bill submitted to the Honourable Parliament sets out on page 261 how macroeconomic figures were developed in 2018. Congresswoman said that it is unrealistic or difficult to reach a GDP of HUF 42 000 billion. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Pass!]] Pass, exceed, thank you very much for the clarification. Then I have to report from the public document that we have exceeded this number by the end of 2018. In 2018, GDP amounted to HUF 42 073 billion. [[A statement from the Fidesz: You should have read it!]] And if we look at the first quarter, 2019, then we have good reason to believe that the level of GDP is substantially above this level today. Of course, in the draft budget law, we are also calculating the GDPs expected by the end of 2019 and in 2020. As far as real growth is concerned, I am once again obliged to clarify the woman who represents it: the fact of 2018 is not 4.6, but 4.9 percent real growth, in terms of the year as a whole. Perhaps now many people think we're pessimists when we calculate a 4% increase. I'll mention that in the light of the first quarter. At the 2020 budget, we continue to assume an increase of around 4 per cent. Of course, there are dangers in all macroeconomic projections, and Minister also mentioned several times in his exposé what risks there are. Trade wars in the world economy, political tensions that affect, for example, the oil price, or the process of Brexit that has not been clarified to date, may, of course, have an impact on Hungary. However, I think that the budgetary projections and the underlying macroeconomic figures have been achieved so far. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andra: These are your own statements.]] As to the suggestion made by the congresswoman that a number of family discounts can only be used by those with higher incomes, Congresswoman mentioned 20 percent at the time... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I said ten percent!]] Thank you for the clarifications, I have listened to the congresswoman, and I will try to recant the message that she said. Let me mention that if you take only family discounts as the subject of the investigation, you can apply a maximum monthly discount of HUF 99 thousand for three children in the case of a family income of less than HUF 310 thousand. After all, not only personal income tax but also individual contributions can benefit from this benefit. If you look at the amount of the minimum wage today and the amount of the guaranteed minimum wage, then these two together are larger than those mentioned, not exactly 310 thousand forints. In other words, in a family where one of the two earners earns a minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage, the discount is now fully enforceable. [[17.00]] But if I go further and look at, for example, the family protection measures setting the 2020 budget before the Honourable Parliament, then I see that baby shower support can benefit the widest possible layers. I think this is another aid that is available to the broadest sections of the population, because it is a system of discounts that requires repayment of the part of the capital received, if a family is to have at least one child, but, where appropriate, that if three children are born, then the part of the capital should not be repaid. The conditions that many banks intend to enforce are available on the Internet, and you can see what kind of investigations these banks intend to conduct. On this basis, I think we can say that this form of support will also be available to a wide range of Hungarian families. There are a number of other benefits that aim to ensure that for as many families as possible, having children is not the same as being financially impossible, on the contrary, where the child's commitment is also a material step forward. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] As regards the comments made by Congresswoman Márta Demeter, let me tell you factually that the total amount of wage increases in both the law enforcement and defence fields launched in 2015 has been secured or will also be secured this year. Here I feel some contradiction between the words of the representative woman and her party companions, Antal Csárdi and Erzsébet Schmuck, as they were talking about a wage crisis, and Congresswoman Márta Demeter talked about the fact that there are few people in the defence and the police, because there are wage problems. In addition to a 50 percent wage increase, it is true that there is significant labour market demand for defence and law enforcement workers, because there has been a very significant wage increase in the private sector. So, not only in certain areas of the public sector, but in the whole national economy, there was a substantial wage increase. Returning to future expenditure in the area of law enforcement and defence, the government is examining what additional wage increases may be possible and what wage increases are available. In the next year's budget bill, the government has also set out a substantive framework for wage increases for the various public sector workers. Finally, let me reflect on the comments made by the International Investment Bank. Firstly, I would like to state factually that five EU and NATO countries are the majority shareholder of the International Investment Bank. So when the Russian influence comes to mind, the first thing to see is that these five EU and NATO countries are the majority owners. And there is no special treatment for this bank's operations, transactions or employees of the bank, and the same benefits may be granted, for example, in respect of the EBRD or other international financial institutions, provided for by the rules in force. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-19-70	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2019-06-19-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, as President of the Gardening Sub-Committee, as I have done in previous years, I would now like to speak in the interest of the sector in relation to its situation. During the general debate on the 2019 central budget, I said at the beginning of my speech that farmers said before 2010 that agriculture had two enemies: weather and Balliberal governments. There are two reasons why I am quoting my speech last year. One is that this saying is still correct, and the situation has not changed in this respect. The other reason is that one thing seems to change: it seems that Jobbik has joined this decorative company since then. Yes, my fellow Members, the once national, right-wing party has joined those who we can prove that the Hungarian land has been sold out to foreign investors with all their might. Remember, when we voted on the Hungarian land for the Hungarian farmers' programme, how scandalously the Presidential Pulpit was occupied. But time, as always, proves it. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have already heard, the 2020 budget year will be a year of support for families. Support for families is extremely important, it is in the common interest of all Hungarians, because without Hungarian families there will be no future. I would like to mention in particular the support of farming families in the countryside. The role of these families is extremely important in Hungarian agriculture. It is important that these families, staying in their homeland to cultivate their land, are able to provide a healthier, fresh product beyond their own decent livelihood, depending on their capacity, in a narrower or wider environment. Therefore, in order to increase the attractiveness of the countryside, to reduce territorial disparities, to improve the quality of life of people living in small settlements, the improvement of the accessibility of small settlements with a population of less than 5 thousand people, the renovation of public roads and transport facilities in these settlements, as well as the introduction of a home-building discount for families, the village CSOK, which aims to make the preferred small settlements more livable and to help achieve quality housing conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, As a pillar of a budget, it is necessarily influenced by events occurring around us, both within the borders of the country and outside the borders of the country. These events cannot be ignored or ignored. This can also be seen with regard to the 2020 budget. We must protect the continuously positive and stable growth of the Hungarian economy. There is no doubt that one of the conditions for our further growth is security. It is therefore necessary to increase our expenditure on defence and public security. In addition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that all priority areas in the 2020 budget can have more resources than this year. Ladies and gentlemen, The chapter of the Agricultural Ministry, the budget figure for 2020 increased significantly by more than HUF 12 billion compared to the budget figure for 2019. With the adoption of next year's budget, we can continue the way we have started, and if we adopt the decent work that we have done so far will not be wasted. With the adoption of next year's budget, we can take further decisive steps towards gradual growth with appropriate support for agriculture, including the fruit and vegetable sector. If we continue to take the right steps, Hungary will indeed soon be the pantry of Europe. The issue of Hungarian agriculture last year was HUF 2720 billion. It increased by 61.3 percent over eight years. The weight of the gardening sectors is decisive, their output last year was 314 billion forints. This is 11.5 percent of the Hungarian agricultural product. Ladies and gentlemen, The overall objective is to increase the organisation and self-regulatory capacity of the agricultural sector in order to ensure that the risks borne in the supply chains are distributed in a proportionate manner. This is also true in the gardening sector, where integration can be achieved through producer cooperation. In order to ensure a globalised market, the concentration of goods, the organisation of sales, is needed so that farmers can achieve this at a higher income level. [[17.10]] A total of ten of the working producer groups formed in accordance with the EU model are active in the gardening sector, seven in the wine-wine sector, one in the nursery school, the gardening products and one in the fruit and vegetable product group. These producer groups receive or have received flat-rate support for their operations under the rural development programme under the title "The establishment of producer groups and organisations" for the first five years. In addition, the groups and their members can be found among beneficiaries of several other types of aid measures. It will remain in the support scheme for producer groups and other EU rural development policy for their operation after 2020. The flexibility of the regulation is increasing, allowing support instruments and the definition of eligible cooperation to be developed according to Hungarian needs. In the fruit and vegetable sector, producer organisations are supported through EU funds, but they provide additional support to producer organisations recognised in the fruit and vegetable sector in addition to EU funds in the Agricultural Ministry, aimed specifically at addressing the challenges facing the Hungarian fruit and vegetable sector. In this context, special resources will be provided for the implementation of product marketing, training and consultancy activities. In the budget proposal, resources will remain at the same level as in previous years. Improving support conditions and procedures will increase in order to make resource use more effective. Positive discrimination for further integration will be given to producer organisations and producer groups. Such exemptions include, for example, the fact that transport between the producer organisation and its members does not have to be notified in the EKAER and that there is no obligation to conclude contracts between the organisation and its members for compulsory processing in the case of milk, sour cherries and apples. A key tool for improving the competitiveness and productivity of agriculture is the more efficient use of the Hungarian irrigation potential. In view of the growing demand in this direction for many years, the government has encouraged the promotion of irrigation management, the better use of their existing opportunities, the development of irrigation, and therefore the government has decided to expand the irrigation opportunities for producers between 2020 and 2030. It provides HUF 17 billion a year to increase irrigated areas, increasing the number of farmers involved in irrigation, thus increasing the efficiency of agricultural production. The aim is at least to double irrigated areas. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight a few examples of increased support from the budget of the Agricultural Ministry, as an illustration of growth. Compared to the 2019 grants, I will describe the amount of the additional aid and the support for two new appropriations. The environmental targets, the farm development programme plus HUF 485.1 million, the national watering central support as a new appropriation plus HUF 300 million, the support for irrigation development tasks as a new appropriation plus HUF 5 billion 530 million, the strengthening of agricultural enterprises, the credit guarantee system plus HUF 5 billion, the national subsidies, the national aquaculture programme plus HUF 578 million, the school fruit scheme plus HUF 65.2 million. Ladies and gentlemen, After what has been said, I ask you to support the 2020 budget. Support it so that we can defend our achievements so far and support it so that we can achieve historic developments both in agriculture and in many other areas. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-19-72	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár.
u2019-06-19-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! People in politics say that we spend the first half of our lives trying to set up our own political minds, decide what we consider a good life, what we consider a good country, what we consider a good world. They say that the luckier in the second half of their lives are all they've created, this type of world, they're trying to realize, they're trying to convince each other, they're trying to convince the other person that what they think of the world they represent is the best of the right and the only possible worlds. The question is, I've had the dilemma here today, listening to the political debate from 8 a.m. to the various comments, what is the political consciousness that you have built in recent years, there is a majority of people here who, as I see it, are now reading a pre-written, not even a communication panel, probably the items taken out of the general justification. [[János Pócs: Quote it!]] So there is a kind of political consciousness that you are building, or there is the Prime Minister, the great combinator, who has a kind of political world vision, and you are joining it either out of conviction, coercion, comfort or other perspective. We are not going to solve this issue here today, obviously, just allow me to do this kind of political thought experiment in my introduction, because I see that what you are generally going towards in recent years, and here under the pretext of the authorization given by the third-thirds, is actually about trying to deny any progressive tradition that Hungary has been proud of in recent decades. They try to rewrite and deny 1789, 1848, 1918, and sometimes even 1956 in some form. What is a little more painful is this generational and age-class story, that I see as the '68, let's say, life-form revolution in some form... you wish to overwrite it, not to mention the changes to the, the '89 Eastern European regime, which spoke very clearly about a parliamentary democracy, a market economy and a accession to the European Union. They tell me, at least that's what I think, with every gesture that they don't want reforms in any form, they don't want to go forward in history in any form, they want to stop, or they want to go backwards on certain issues. I have listened to today's communication, and I understand that we will be talking about family, security and economy here and in the next few days, which is what this budget will say for the future. Allow me one thing, though they're all important. I will give you a few thoughts about each of them, but I would have been more interested if either the minister or one of the lead speakers from the two governing parties were talking about what country they would think in the meantime and what type of vision they have of Hungary. Now, I'll say a sentence that may seem banal or silly, but if I make it very simple now, what you've been communicating over the past few decades, then I think we're gonna be a lot of guns and guns in a few decades, and multis are gonna pay less and less, but we're gonna get sicker and underqualified. So if I strictly take this kind of 8-9 hour communication dumping today, I can actually simplify this story in this way. Why don't you talk about what works in some countries, by the way, to say that, for example, they put a lot more money into innovation, for example, like... [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] I think you should read it, 'cause it's not. The Minister of Innovation is one of his losers, with whom, in addition, some things need to be shoveled out, some things he has had to sort out in the last few days, but we are also talking about this. [[17.20]] So, for example, let Hungary be the valley of silicon in Europe, let there be some kind of IT centre, let there be the kind of knowledge that we are so proud of, try to appear here. Or we can say, even I'm in that right now, it's so fashionable here, I see, in your business-- that we should then be the citadel of tourism, I just beg you, not just for this type of tourism, but for much more demanding tourism. I might even say we're gonna be the center of filmmaking. So let it be something if we are no longer talking about education and health, which in this respect gives this country some kind of image, style and character, and in some respects gives Hungarian people the opportunity to stay here and to engage in activities that, in some respects, represent a different quality than before. But that's not what this is about. As far as the family support system is concerned, I am willing to accept that there are many important and good elements. I am willing to accept that this is an incredible amount of money. Look at the fact that just now, a few days ago, family-friendly countries were published in the European Union, and we still can't get into the top 10, which means that while we really raise our imaginary hats, that there are excellent results and opportunities here, while the world is clearly moving towards yes, this is where we need to take further government action. And we can't help but notice what many people have been talking about today, that in some ways it creates additional opportunities for a place where we have this kind of skill and ability, and where it doesn't, where it doesn't exist, it still doesn't get anything. As far as security is concerned, don't be fooled, ladies and gentlemen. In a significant part, if we appreciate it well as one of the solutions to the Orbán-Trumpaktum, it means buying more weapons. Hungary has, of course, undertaken with NATO membership to devote a certain part of its budget to such expenditure. I will be very curious when we look at what really happened here in the context of the closing or evaluation, how much of this money was actually spent on the social expenditures of the Defense Department, and how much of this has become an amazing amount of arms procurement that the Ministry of Defence has only announced in recent months. As far as the economy is concerned, this has already been said today, and I would just like to add once again: it is a really nice thing that Hungary has the smallest corporate tax, by 9 percent, that really sounds good. It has been shown a hundred times that this is an excellent opportunity for multinational companies to withdraw money, and it creates virtually minimal additional opportunities for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Yes, we must also say here that you always book the single-key tax system as a success, and we believe that the single-key tax system is about leaving extra money for those with significant incomes and not creating any opportunities for those with low incomes. And, yes, this is where we talk about what my fellow Member said just a few minutes ago, that while there is a world-class, 27 percent VAT, and there are amazing excise duties, for example, on the various petrol and oil products, which are about the simple people who actually get the extra income, going into the store, giving 27 percent of this back to the government immediately. I want this to be clear to everyone. So that's when I'm talking about the economic protection action plan, and there's practically one concrete thing here, a two-percent reduction in the social contribution. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] I also have the rhetorical question of how, once decades or centuries from now, you will look back on 2010-2019, how and how you will enter history. The dilemma will soon be decided whether it will be a footnote or a separate chapter this is probably a separate chapter. I think it's coming to a glorious chapter, or it's going to be about a serious mistake and a serious failure. Let me tell you something, which I'm sure you already have to do in an extremely good historical and economic climate. In a climate when the world came out of a truly amazing economic crisis, it was not entirely clear how and how societies and economies would resolve this. So the world came out of an economic crisis. They were surprisingly low energy prices and commodity prices, which is extremely important for such a country as Hungary. The markets that are most important to us, and here, let us say, highlight the German market, were soaring during this period. What we want to go to or to go to, they just thought they wanted to invest. There were no actual wars during this period, and let us add one of the most important things that all economic analysts always say is that, in the meantime, we actually had a quantity of external resources, actually free of charge, the use of which was bound only from a certain point of view and which has not been available to Hungary in recent centuries. So the question is that in a good economic climate, in situations supported by the market, with low energy prices and many external sources, you have transformed Hungary into a country that, if this is not the climate, you can maintain these social measures that you will now take. Is it possible for the Hungarian economy to be able to keep up with all this performance, I do not know what ended the debate, the 4% or any percentage increase? Have you established the basis for this during this period? If you say with faith and conviction that it is, then I say that they are happy and calm people. What I see today is that the pyramids of this era will be the stadiums. Money invested in stadiums, money invested in concrete, which is not always infrastructure development, does not bring real, long-term economic growth. It does not have the potential to be able to say, once again, when it will be difficult when our partners do not want to help us so much, how we will sustain this economic growth. How can we keep the promise that there will be more income for everyone, that this type of family support can be maintained? So my request is that a little more responsibility, perhaps a little further away from their horizons, try to make their own decisions. Obviously, I do not expect this from every Member in each individual area, but I definitely believe that a government, a government leader and a government fund manager must do this kind of thinking. You have asked us several times in the past to vote for this budget. It's a kind and correct request. Obviously, in the next few days, under the weight of arguments and debate, we will consider how much we have broken, but a few days ago, there was a rather tasteful debate about a salad law, and I said so too: do you not think that they will highlight numbers from this otherwise extraordinary amount of data, which supports some arguments, and they believe that the statement that it is, as it is, meets the expectations that we have formulated? What we are trying to do here is explain to you and you are obviously right to say that we are drawing up different numbers, that in this budget we do not think that there will be enough money for those who are in a hopeless situation, and that there cannot be a permanent and long cover for the problem of poverty in Hungary, that it is becoming increasingly difficult for people to get housing in Hungary, and that there are still hundreds of thousands of pensioners who live twice and three times the amount of minimum pension. So it's very real about the budget, and then I'd like to talk to the budget about a part of it, because that's actually what I got to do, but now I'm a little distracted, I'm sorry, but it's because I've had plenty of time, so it's amazingly understandable in the budget, too, what we've always seen in the last few years, and that's that they're moving towards building a very strong state. In each case, they try this kind of centralization, centralization. There are many ways to look at this, there are obviously moments, there are situations where this may seem right, but I still assume that the change of regime of 89-90 or the European and world processes are about the need to delegate as much as possible where there is more choice and more information for decision-makers. [[17 .30]] It has already been said in our group leader's speech that 18.4 percent of the total budget spent on the state is 4,000 billion forints amazing. This shows that they are trying very seriously to push everything up. Obviously, they will explain that this is not the case, and that this concerns the financing of a large number of subsystems, but I have dealt with the issue of garbage transport for the reasons of my constituency, and in this respect, I think that garbage transport shows very clearly that there are areas in which it cannot be centralised, that it should not be done to get very far away from the actor who is supposed to solve the local problem. These things simply don't work, they become waterheads, sooner or later the problem gets further away from those who have to solve it, and simply the service itself will decrease. And, of course, centralization and I wanted to address Mr Pósán's comment here, yes, one of the ectant examples of centralization, I think, is the decision on the Academy of Sciences. There are very few things in the world that are not or very rarely touched by powers that try to transform everything, I was convinced that your political courage, talent and will will will never reach the Academy, I was wrong about that. From here on out, I think there's no limit. As far as the local government is concerned, and I wanted to do this a little bit, there are several ways to reduce the autonomy of a local government. Now I'm gonna be a little critical and self-critical. In the last 29 years, the various powers have tried to do this in several ways. We may limit powers and may reduce resources in some form. Once again, in the last 29 years, we have seen examples of this, from this point of view it is clear that the left-wing government of 12 years has also made certain mistakes, and we are more of a source. However, I see that you are trying to improve this to perfection, and, in practice, on both the source and the power side, you are increasingly trying to steer the municipalities towards such a moderate system of advice, so that, in fact, you are trying to do this with less and less responsibility, less and less resources. He said that the Minister, and they are happy to use it as task funding. Let's really forget about this. That sounds terrific, I know they're gonna say that, and they're gonna protect you. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] , but there is no task funding in Hungary. The task funding would be to look at the tasks, see how much it costs on Ipolytarnóc, and see how much it costs in downtown and Szombathely, and it would be possible for anyone to go to a local government anywhere in Hungary, in any settlement, to receive the kind of public service that he has the authority, task and opportunity to receive at the same level. Look at this, the aid in Budapest is not the same in different districts! No. It's a reduced normative funding today. Once upon a time, we found out what kind of tasks we used to give money for, and this became a trained number, and from it they start to grope and carve. It's not job financing. That's what you're saying, because it sounds much better than what we've had so far, something had to be changed. And that the support of local governments will rise by HUF 23 billion, it will be sold as a bright victory. The Minister said 2950 billion, which I understand is 750, which is narrowly state money, but I beg you, 23 billion is the money of 3200 local governments, not even a third of which is Puskás Stadium! At a time like this, when I wanted to tell you, and I wanted to say this, you're going to take these numbers out, and you're really acting like if it was something amazing, that there's four billion, five billion forints in this area or that area, you're going to think about it, and then you're going to go on such partial cases, you're going to go to ten, twenty, hundred billion forints. [[Sándor F. Kovács intervenes.]] which is actually from the point of view of what you're building. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] Or what you think you're building, momentary dunes, will disappear, no one will remember them, and let's not even talk about the Budapest-Belgrád railway, let's not even talk about the obligation of the Paks obligation, and in light of that, the Minister's statement that we are transforming the public debt, and we want to be much more domestic. Obviously neither China nor Russia are yet considered domestic. Well, what I'd like to say very briefly is how many times you've told me about this free textbook, the contribution to the meal, and the thing I've noticed is that I don't know if you've noticed that what you're giving more and more money is always a business leg, and interestingly, your business leg is ruined, not exactly ruined, but the characters are taken out nicely, and it's always a piece of character. So when you're talking about a free textbook, you're eligible, while the market, the free textbook market, has been destroyed, you can get this free textbook from almost one place, and obviously we're minutes away from finding out who's behind it. When you talk about raising the money for eating children quite rightly, this is true, while it seems that what was a multinational company here was all wiped out of Hungary, there is no foreign company today, there are domestic companies, and the number of them is shrinking, and I am not surprised that one day a fact-finding journalist will follow up on the fact that there are actually the same players as we are used to in so many cases. Today, Congressman Nacsa is not here, so I am forced to answer him in his absence on behalf of Lajos Korózs. Obviously, Lajos Korózs didn't say what he put in his mouth, that the socialists didn't want a raise. We are pleased that there is a wage increase of more than 10 percent in Hungary, and we would like it to be so everywhere else, in the area of pensions and in other places. Lajos Korózs tried to explain here that he is a sociologist, and a very prepared, smart man, that it is not right for society to split the scissors, so if incomes increase much faster than pensions are. He tried to show this in some way by, of course, asking for it, and we would like to do so, and we are also trying to produce our amendment in this direction, so that pensions can grow at the same rate as wages have increased in recent years. Well, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you see that we are trying very deeply and thoroughly to consider how, how, we can vote for this budget, we are not in an easy situation. Obviously, we'll let them convince us even further, but if they did, and sometimes they'd look up from their paperwork and try to talk about what they actually experience in their own constituency, then we might be able to deal with each other more easily. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-06-19-74	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai has indicated that he would like to reply. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-19-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to reflect very briefly, but there are some comments from Congressman Gyula Molnár that I felt wanted an answer. The first point was that the results of the past were good, but this was achieved in an exceptional international environment, external resources, low prices, low oil prices. At this time, I cannot help but ask why, in many respects, Greece and Spain have been integrated into the euro area with the effects that the Member has said, why did they not prevail? The external environment was also favourable to them, oil prices had the same impact on their economies, and both countries received significant EU funds. I could also mention that we remember from the last decade, in the years before 2008, when it was also a economic period, but we did not see much real convergence with regard to Hungary, and we were able to achieve significant deficits with regard to budgets. I therefore believe that it is an undisputed fact, and I agree with the Member that external circumstances have a significant influence on the economic performance of a country, but I think that the results that Hungary has achieved in recent years cannot and is wrong to take away solely from the performance of Hungarian companies, Hungarian families and Hungarian economic policy. This is how we arrived at 2020, where the proposal for a budget law, as we see it, will continue with the economic catch-up that we have seen in recent years. [[17.40]] It seems to me that this catching-up does not go hand in hand with what the Socialist Members have said, which does not result in a significant increase in the position of some layers at the expense of other layers. Congressman said that poverty is increasing in Hungary. I really don't know what numbers you can back that up with, Congressman. Consider, for example, the number of people employed, the number of people who had previously been unemployed, and the number of people who today live from work. Let us look at, let us say, the evolution of minimum wages and the development of real money. After 2010, as part of the 2016 agreement, the real income of the lowest earners was radically increased in 2017, 18 and 19 as well. If the Member or left-wing factions consider it important to continue to catch up on the less financially favourable layers, then I think that the proposal for a budget law for 2020 can be supported, since it was built on the fact that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase by 8 percent, this will once again result in a substantial increase in real income in their eyes. And if it comes to pensioners, I have to mention that we are calculating that, in addition to preserving the real value of pensions, it is possible to pay a pension premium. I also have to speak out about the state's operating assets. Yes, Congressman, it must be said that if we look at the items that belong to the state's operating expenditure, then, on the basis of international standards, security and security expenditure should also be included. So if we accept that the salaries of the police and the military have increased in recent years, and we want to keep these wages at least, if we accept that security is a fundamental value, then, yes, we have to accept that in these areas the expenditures of the state have increased, as does God in other areas, such as the wages of government officials, or if we are talking here in the Office of Parliament or in the House of Parliament, the wages of the official workers have also increased; this is also included in the increase in expenditure that you object to. As far as municipalities are concerned: as regards the resources of the municipalities for next year, the Minister pointed out in his expozee how much money the municipal system can manage, and how much funds the central budget provides in chapter IX, the chapter on municipal subsidies. If we look at the management of municipalities a little more perspectively, then it is necessary to see that, in addition to central budget funding, the majority of the resources of local authorities derive from their own revenue, including local industrialisation tax revenue. This is why local authorities have increased significantly in recent years, and we can expect this in 2020 as they will be able to calculate a surplus of local industrialisation tax revenue in parallel with the growth of the economy. And perhaps it should also be mentioned that there are lots, budget subsidies that target Hungarian settlements. For example, the "Hungarian Village" programme, which is not among the items quoted by the Member, but which, overall, could amount to HUF 150 billion in 2020. Let me then talk very briefly about the future and what will happen if international economic conditions get worse when the economic period is perhaps over. That's why we're counting on the reserves raised in next year's budget. Yes, the Hungarian economy is an open economy, it has a legal influence on Hungarian growth and other processes as to what is happening in Europe and in the world. That is why we have presented to the Honourable Parliament a budget which, if you like, strengthens the state's financial position because of the low deficit and greater reserves, and which includes the measures of the Economic Protection Action Plan, which aims to achieve a surplus of about 2 percentage points compared to the growth of the Union. Of course, we will look beyond 2020. If you have been watching the manifestations of various government actors or the Prime Minister himself, you have heard that one of our aims is to make Hungary one of the most livable countries in the European Union for decades. I've got a public document in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] , which is about the economic policy aspects of the most livable country, which is the title of the Programme for a more competitive Hungary. In this, we are writing about a number of areas where we have a task to achieve this desired position, including the areas of education and health that you referred to as criticism, in which we are therefore looking at surpluses in 2020 and also that we have a number of other tasks in these areas as many as in other areas. I believe that in order to achieve this long-term goal, the 2020 budget contains substantial steps to achieve one of Europe's most livable countries. On this basis, it is clear from a more far-reaching vision which direction economic policy is taking. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Maria Kállai.
u2019-06-19-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is good to say that the 2020 budget is an infinitely conscious, future-oriented one, for the year 2020 and, as we have now heard from the Secretary of State, also responding to a longer term future, considering the tasks, with real numbers and real development opportunities. It is also good to say that, among its pillars, when we highlight the support of families, the retention of the results of the economy and the need to say that security is still a condition for growth, this also shows that we have a conscious budget ahead of us. In any case, it is a fact and a fact that it focuses on supporting families, namely the implementation of the family protection action plan, as well as the preservation of the country's economic results and the preservation of security. It is also good to say that HUF 2228 billion is available to families for family support. If we look back at the year 2010, we can see that this was all HUF 967 billion. Today we have heard that it is 1261 billion forints more, which represents an increase of almost 2.5 times. If we look back, we can see that the results of the conscious, development-oriented economic policy, which has the interests and interests of Hungarian families and Hungarian people, and in response to an opposition remark: worthy of Hungary, are worthy of the Fidesz-KDNP faction group, worthy of the Hungarian people. We hope that it will be worthy of a full vote. I would just like to point out a few things from the fact that this government, as far as family policy is concerned, gave back the third year of childcare aid, brought back tax relief, tied family support to work, and the programme that is now ahead of us, I think is certainly a bright proof of this government's thinking. But after discussing a number of important issues in the budget, I would like to highlight one thing and, in fact, prove it to my fellow Member, who said that we would be getting sicker and underqualified. I trust that the few ideas that I am going to put forward now prove that we are becoming more and more qualified, and this year, as well as the budget before us in the year 2020 will allow public education, the entire spectrum of education, to function at a virtually adequate level from kindergarten to higher education, and that there will be a quality education, a well-trained, quality workforce available to everyone, which I believe is also one of the most important factors for the development of the economy in Hungary's future, and, of course, in addition to training, also bearing in mind the needs of lifelong learning. In line with this objective, figures are stubborn things, figures and facts show in the budget in the 2020 budget that HUF 2080 billion is available for educational expenditure. This is HUF 48 billion more than in 2019. And if we also look back and look at the figures, we invest more in education by HUF 633 billion compared to the 2010 budget; by chance I do not say that we are spending, because all the resources in the human field, I am convinced that this difference of HUF 633 billion is an enormous development compared to socialist-free democratic governance. I am convinced that the content behind the numbers is also convincing. A few highlights from the field of public education. We consider the development of public education infrastructure to be a priority for all items along the budget, and the teacher II. and the continuation of the qualification of master educators and research teachers. It is very important to continue the qualification of staff with pedagogical qualifications who directly assist in educational and educational work, i.e. who are not employed in pedagogical work. [[17.50]] It has already been mentioned today, it is important to continue the state development of textbooks, as the responsible state does not provide the school with the financial situation of the municipalities, but carries this line with its full awareness and responsibility. One element of this is, in fact, the expansion of the development of textbooks. And I will tell you about the free textbook supply that is available to everyone from 2020 to 1-16. It is very important for personality and Hungarian character is the continuation of the musical instrument development program. Kindergarten tools, since kindergartening itself, I think that the whole education is a very serious key issue. It is very important to help students in the 9th and 11th grade learn languages in a foreign language environment to highlight only a few things. It should also be said that the budget for 2020 will provide an additional HUF 24 billion in support of the area, and it will also show that it will allow the need for continuous development in this area to thrive. The first priority should be to develop infrastructure, as an appropriate infrastructure is essential for a fair, chance-creating and quality education work. We are witnessing unprecedented kindergarten and school development, if you look around your own constituency, you can see how these public education institutions are being renewed. The government considers the development of the school environment to be particularly important, and that is why the largest school development project of the last thirty years was launched with some HUF 110 billion from EU and HUF 50 billion from state resources. In addition, with a sense of responsibility for the infrastructure of the ecclesiastical institutions, it will be shown in a separate budget starting this year. In the age of digitalization, the whole educational system is affected and it has to be said that about 40,000 teachers are involved in this competence development program. But part of this hardware is also available, as we provide about 60,000 tools for teachers and students. My departed fellow Member spoke and expressed his agreement on free catering. I would really like to underline that the government has raised the support for free children's meals from 27 billion to 79 billion forints since 2010. I mean, if you think about the free textbook supply, what it means for Hungarian families, because from the 2020-21 academic year, by providing free textbooks for all students in the daily education of the public education system, I think it is important to say that in Hungary we have reached the point that free textbook care is guaranteed, which is definitely to be appreciated. It must be pointed out, and there has been talk today about how some people are looking for a method, some people are making excuses, I think we are looking for a way to really find a very unique, very unique and demanding tool system to help learn languages further. Forint 35 billion is available for this purpose. As part of the foreign language strategy, starting in 2019-20, it will be possible to travel students of the 9th and 11th grade to the target language country for two weeks. We also know that there was a text message just today that, yes, the language exam was successful and that the source could be reclaimed. So we also know that there is a billion-dollar item available to repay the successful language exam to the student, the family. It seems small, but it is not, it is very important in a young person's life to obtain a driving licence. Technically, this can be a serious addition to the family register, very appreciated and appreciated. If you look at the education-education system, the palette is very wide, because it's a complex thing. I would like to highlight and draw attention to the national talent programme. The national talent programme in the 2020 budget exceeds HUF 3 billion. Thank you for this, because I think that for a student, teacher and trainer in addition to family-friendly Hungary, a talent-friendly medium has been formed in recent years, as 300-400 thousand students are connected in some way to the NTP, the national talent program. But I could say "Unlimited." a programme for which HUF 5.3 billion is available in next year's budget. The strengthening of Hungarian-Hungarian relations is essentially due to the strategic objectives of the budget and the Government of Hungary, since security and identity are all related issues. I would also like to mention the career programmes, as the government intends to continue the existing career model of teachers, the teacher II. and the qualification of master educator, research teacher. The source is available, it must be used, and I encourage teachers in this area. There was talk today of pensioners approaching economic and financial awareness. Forint 4.8 billion was available last year, and we would like to continue this year in the Fáy András programme. There is indeed a need to raise the financial awareness of young people, regardless of age, which, of course, also gives them the opportunity to think about their future retirement age from savings onwards. In any case, I consider it important to develop infrastructure in higher education, the college development strategy, student mobility, support for international relations, the development of pedagogical training, the provision of scientific reinforcements. From 2020 the student normative amount will increase to HUF 166 600, and many mobility programmes, research and development programmes will be available to young people. In any case, we must say that education may seem to be a very serious investment in the future, but it has never been given such attention, financial support, since the change of regime, as it was at the time of the government of national affairs. I don't think it's a good thing if you become the playground for any political argument, and not because you have to listen to how bad it is that nothing falls apart is not good, but because of the people involved in this thing, but I think it's probably because of that. You have to be very serious when it comes to the limitless! I spoke about the programme, and there are also a number of fields of action in higher education for strengthening Hungarian-Hungarian relations, as well as for cross-border public education and cross-border higher education cooperation. Another sentence related to my constituency is the development of culture in the 2020 budget, whether we are thinking of the development of the Opera House, the Makovecz Imre Fund, or the Kecskemét Katona József Theatre; the renovation of the Szigligeti Theatre in Szolnok will begin from 3.98 billion HUF, and I thank the Hungarian government with respect as the district's parliamentary representative. Ladies and gentlemen, At present, Hungary is one of the safest countries in the world, and I believe that it is worthy of this and that it is also being strengthened by the increase in next year's budgetary resources in this area. Overall, we can say that the draft budget for 2020, continuing the strategy for safe growth, reducing public debt, giving all sectors greater opportunities, greater scope for action, rational, forward-looking, certainly suitable, not only suitable, but worthy of adoption. I am sure that the Fidesz-KDNP political group will do so, and I will also ask the opposition representatives to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-78	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would like to point out that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party is giving 40 minutes of the remaining timeframe to the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group on this day. We now have two-minute speeches, which can last for the first nine seconds. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2019-06-19-79	Thank you. Secretary of State, just because you keep talking about 50 percent salary increases, you know very well that this has not been achieved. Again, I'm asking you to raise your salary to 60,000 forints. And if, in the absence of that, the security, municipal and state institutions collapse, it will be your responsibility. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-19-80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Kovács in two minutes.
u2019-06-19-81	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I'm so sorry that Gyula Molnár left because we could both have gone back to the past. As former mayor of the local government world, I remember the desperate conversation when Lászlóné Csabai, former mayor of Nyíregyháza, MSZP representative, agreed with the government about the local government's wage increase at the time, but there was no collateral for it. This started a process that led to the accumulation of HUF 1200 billion in debt to the municipalities, and then, from this debt trap, the government rescued the municipalities. First of all, I remember Mónika Lamperth speaking as Minister of the Interior, and we said, "Save me from him, Lord God, because that would be trouble, seeing the anomalies of normative funding." But I wouldn't go back to the past that far, I would rather talk about what the budget and the current situation contain. Minister of State said that local revenues have increased significantly with the growth of the economy, which is characteristic of the new kind of local government world, since a developmental local government world has developed and the local government world of social solidarity has developed. [[18.00]] In this, the state provides significant resources: if you look at this year alone, the Hungarian village programme is 150 billion, the programme "Modern Cities" represents HUF 1500 billion of local government support for development in addition to state aid. And then I won't talk about the small settlements, the renovation of three-digit and four-digit roads from domestic sources. Or if, for a sentence, we could get lost in the past: what then was in the system of recipient and target subsidies given by the state to the local government? 50 billion a year. Let us compare these with today's budgetary resources and grants, and then we can all talk about a completely different picture! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-82	Thank you, Congressman. We now return to the normal time frame: I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Tessely.
u2019-06-19-83	Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! Dear House, With regard to the central budget for next year, not only the Minister, but also my fellow Members have highlighted a number of things. I would first of all like to draw attention to the importance of economic stability, because this stability is extremely valuable for our membership in the European Union. If we wish to withdraw the balance sheet of the fifteen years since our accession to the EU, we cannot forget for a moment that, after 1 May 2004, it was impossible to expect economic or financial stability from the then Hungarian governments for many years. In recent years, however, Hungary has been characterised by a disciplined, predictable budget year after year, constantly. Thus, Hungary is now one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe. The objective of the growth rate of the Hungarian economy will continue to be at least 2 percentage points higher than the average growth rate in Europe in 2020. As a result of government measures, GDP growth remains dynamic and is expected to be 4 percent in 2019 and 2020. The result of this stability is that unemployment is at a record low level today, that average wages are growing dynamically, that family protection measures promised to take a population turn have also been taken. We also need to re-evaluate public finances and public debt issues every year for our membership in the European Union. I think it is important to emphasise that, thanks to efforts to achieve budgetary and financial balance, we have been able to keep the budget deficit stable below 3 per cent of GDP since 2012. Last year, the deficit in the government sector accounted for 2.2 percent of GDP, while next year it is expected to be below 1 percent of GDP. This is certainly a remarkable and even significant achievement. The ratio of government debt to GDP has been declining gradually for years. Last year, we managed to keep it below 71 percent, and next year it could sink below 66 percent of GDP. It is clear that the reduction in public debt-to-GDP ratio is already ongoing, if we manage to continue this trend, the public debt may, in a few years' time, be desirable under the Fundamental Law below 60% of GDP. Stability and predictability are fundamental values that we can and should be proud of, meet Maastricht criteria. Many EU Member States are constantly struggling with high public debt, youth unemployment and face various social tensions. However, the conditions for balanced economic growth in our country are clearly guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year is the last year of the EU budget period 2014-20, although we know that the actual closure of each programme will still be possible after 2020. In the last seven years Hungary has received a total of HUF 12 000 billion in development funding thanks to the agreement reached at the European Council meeting in February 2013. In total, over HUF 7600 billion of development resources are available to beneficiaries in the context of cohesion policy development programmes. Using the possibility of an additional commitment, a 107 percent commitment has so far been made to these developments in order to avoid any loss of resources. An additional HUF 1300 billion of EU funds can be used under the rural development programme. The amount was also fully advertised, with a level of commitment of 101 per cent. The European Network Finance Facility is intended to finance investments in transport, energy and telecommunications in trans-European networks. Hungary has fully covered its own national framework with successful proposals. As in the previous period, significant amounts of subsidies that do not appear in the domestic budget will be paid out outside our country in 2020 as well. Out-of-budget grants are dominated by area payments. These are expected to be paid for HUF 413 billion in 2020. Overall, in 2020, nearly HUF 1500 billion of EU funds are expected to be available for the implementation of domestic infrastructure, cohesion, environmental and other projects, which will be complemented by nearly HUF 430 billion of non-budget funding. The central budget contribution to the EU funds could amount to HUF 397 billion next year. Finally, I would like to stress that the so-called top-up EU appropriations continue to guarantee that there is no financial or regulatory barrier to the use of EU funds. At the same time, EU funds for the 2014-2020 development period will be drawn up more quickly in 2020 due to the accelerated implementation and the accounting of advances. Overall, it can therefore be said that economic stability is ensured by the 2020 budget. There will also be an adequate reserve for unexpected situations. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2019-06-19-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It will not be surprising that I will be dealing with health, and in fact, this is often a one-way or very narrow-section debate. I am particularly pleased that there is a Secretary of State here from the Ministry of Finance who takes the time to listen to criticism on the one hand and corrects the data or perceptions that go wrong. Overall, it can be established on the current budget and on the part of the 2020 budget for health, which concerns the chapter of the EMMI and the E-fund, and is mainly focused on the medical and cash register, i.e. on the cash register of preventive medical benefits, that there is some progress in it. [[18.10]] We have said this every year, when there was a surplus in the healthcare register, in the surplus resources, that it is, of course, needed, and the opposition not only supports it, but also asks for it. In this House, we have a lot of debates on under-fundedness. Mr Secretary of State, once again, it must be said that, compared to the ideal or expected level, which, in comparison with GDP or other nations, is not important, the real needs of Hungarian health care are still, although the government has made greater efforts recently to reduce this, there is a big difference, i.e. our health system is still underfunded. It has a very simple logic, a driving force. This is the hardest way to fight, and it is very difficult to compete with money on this. This is the development of technology and the growing demand for technology, and, of course, the more advanced the technology, the more it needs, the more costs it will absorb. The other is our ageing society and the growing need for care, care and healing. Health is one of the biggest users of our modern society, and it will continue to be if we look at trends. It will face a dynamic cost use and cost need, and this will be a huge challenge for all budgets and all governments. The answer is that, on the one hand, a modern and cost-effective health care should be operated and, on the other hand, a good allocation of resources and a good resource for the current budget. We can, of course, be critical of this, but we also see that the funding side is quite limited in a ten million-dollar market. So perhaps in countries where there is a larger market, it is easier to achieve cost-effective or efficient health care, and there is a much wider burden of resource creation, if such a picture can be used, where decision-makers are more comfortable. Here, basically, one of the questions of the future will be what new ways to find new ways to raise resources for health, because it seems that, in addition to the current resources, the need for what is needed is very difficult to maintain. But what is needed to eliminate underfunded and show that we are underfunded? The opposition almost always raises this criticism, but in recent years it has not only been the opposition's own speech on underfunding. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank published an analysis last year, perhaps even this year, and a package of proposals with quite wide and many points, which also started from this point and suggested increasing resources. But if all is true, Minister Miklós Kásler himself came up with a package of 1500 billion in which he focused on a lot of important things. This also showed that, in fact, every year a good HUF 600-500 billion is missing from the operation of health care, which the government is trying to make up for by the end of the year by around 180-200 billion each year when planning the budget, and that by the end of the year it will generate another 100 billion from either debt consolidation during the year or the use of cash deposits or the dedication of some dedicated programmes. So what we see is that at least half of the 500-600 billion forints expected will always have to be replaced or promised by the government at the beginning of the year or during the year. However, the problem remains that, due to this lack of resources, hospitals are in debt. This is also because the increased burden, technological need and growing needs of the population simply cannot be met. They have a lot more to do than they can otherwise handle with funding. Thus, one of the peculiarities of healing is that no one is actually left on the side of the road, because one of the ideas of each of us about medicine is that no matter how fallen, whatever the relationship behind it, the doctor will help it, in accordance with his oath, even if the hospital has money or not. So it is legal that care will be provided in all cases. This generates deficits due to underfunding. But it's the same problem, and it's a constant race, a question of the wages of health workers. Hungary is in constant wage competition and all the countries in the world are the best performing Western countries, and there is also a permanent shortage, a constant race that the government has to make up for. At the same place, it can be said that it is arguable and, of course, positive that the government has launched a pay gap with healthcare workers, on the one hand, a professional and, on the other hand, a medical pay gap. But if, in itself, we had reduced the wage development over a number of years, which was more than 50 per cent, to a year and not given to the government in four years, it would not have been enough to solve the problem, but it would have barely been enough to deal with the surface, the wage demand would have increased to such an extent, and even the level of Western wages would have increased. This also keeps the Hungarian medical staff under constant pressure. We see that there are several proposals, there is the MNB, there is the Kasler plan, which was about a truth plan, but the Ministry of Finance also had its own material on the sources and plans of health care. Maybe there's 20 pages of material with relatively good graphics. These are all remarkable, and therefore one always has great hope of what will appear in the current budget, but we always see a refined, dumbed-down version of this. It can be said that all of these, not that they are the losers of austerity, but of underfundedness, be they Hungary, be it the Czech Republic, Poland or any other country, especially patients and workers. Patients who do not receive the highest standard of care appropriate to age and available technique, and workers, because they have to bear extra burdens and carry extra burdens. But like I said, one of the biggest challenges in modern health is to deal with all of this. As long as the proportion of the health industry or its needs remain below 10 per cent of GDP, it is expected that it will go up very quickly in the cost of GDP, up to 15 to 18 per cent in 10 to 15 years, the share that will be needed to maintain a good European standard for health care is expected to rise constantly. Of course, there is a limit of GDP over which there is no unreasonable way to go. In the United States, a great deal of money is spent on health care in proportion to GDP, but the effectiveness of their health care is less than that of Hungarian health. So there is also an efficiency problem, money is not entirely the god on this issue. With an effective health and adequate money, health can be maintained well. What is really important is the case of the EBP, the programme for Healthy Budapest. It was shown that when it started, it was a very focused program focused essentially on center hospitals, super hospitals, and now it seems to be starting to spread. Practically from Cegléd, all Pest county settlements and many, perhaps 19 sites in Budapest are now being scattered, this program is being extended. Perhaps it would have been worth choosing a way to focus this program on the three or four center hospitals alone, and not to allow different needs to get in, because it will once again result in the need to maintain a huge structure in Budapest, which will require a HUF 600-700 billion development in terms of cost, and, by the way, far above the rural invested funds that the government used to spend in the EU. In many cases, the supply system in Budapest may not be the best in its efficiency, either, with a lot of overlaps, old institutions and very often empty hospitals and overcrowded hospitals elsewhere. So perhaps we should go back to the original plan with regard to the EEW. This year, I think it was HUF 40 billion for the EEW's budget for farming. Looks like it's gonna be a money pit sooner or later, and that's all I'm trying to say. Perhaps you'd be more focused if attention and government attention were to go to the center hospitals again. I don't know, it's a professional policy issue. I am also very sorry, but this is not the subject of the budget for the discharge of Minister Cserháti. I think he was an excellent professional who managed this program very well. As far as our own amendments are concerned, let me draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that we have planned to reduce the hospital debts, which I have seen the government have also provided a plan, although with the label that the restructuring of funding or rationalising funding. This will probably end in the fact that hospitals will receive this debt settlement again, which is otherwise appropriate, because ultimately it is not only their debt that appeared there, but also the lack of money from suppliers, and without suppliers, health care would essentially not work. We have proposed to increase the cost of home care. This is because it is an undervalued area, it has not received the right support for a very long time, and we always forget that ultimately the patient's bed is not in the hospital, not in the institution, but in his own home. [[18.20]] There can be the fastest, the best and the most cost-effective otherwise, in cases where, of course, the patient can be put into his home. We are also calling for a raise in the general medical care fee because there are a number of representatives with a history of former municipal government, a permanent problem, a boiling point and a focal point. We also need a serious increase here. However, the cost of this area is not very high, and I think the suppliers would also be involved in carrying out the reflection of the infrastructure itself, whether it is reorganising at district level or organizing it at municipal level. Perhaps professional organizations are becoming more and more open about this. Such a restructuring could, where appropriate, justify an increase in funding. We have proposed an increase in health NGOs of 20 million each year, which we submit every year, precisely because these organisations are taking a heavy burden off the public supply system, whether we are talking about the Hungarian Hospice Foundation or the Mályvavirág Foundation, and they complement the state work very well, and they achieve quite good results from this relatively small, available amount. In conclusion, I can say that what is vital, and this is such a final message, that we should agree, as a political public reflection here, how we can achieve a change of attitude in the financing of health care, especially in hospital financing, because we see that Hungarian health care is difficult. Of course, this will also need to be changed, but until we can do so, we will need a change of perspective on funding. Of course, there will need to be consensus on the rise in wage levels and the fact that depreciation will be added at some point in the development of Budapest and rural areas, as we can see that in rural hospitals, the phenomenon of maintaining and charging for freshly refurbished things is becoming more and more common. It will be very important to find a stable source-creating leg in the Hungarian budget for the future as well. You can't always pay taxes and unsigned health care expenses. You will have to think about a contribution specifically intended for health purposes or a solution that will be predictable, stable and otherwise predictable in the long term, because, in my view, it is not predictable and it is not easy to plan in the long term. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-19-86	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Happy.
u2019-06-19-87	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me, Mr. Secretary, to congratulate you and the government. I've been sitting here for nine years in a budget debate, but there's never been such a boring budget debate. I see that the opposition has seen that this budget is good, because apart from the better Members who are sitting here, the three of them, and besides notary Bence Tordai, all opposition representatives have already gone home, are not taking part in the debate. You seem to be tired of this debate. They seem to have arguments, and they don't agree with everything, but they still see it as a good budget, and I can confirm that. This budget is a strong and good budget, which has been happening for the second time in 30 years, and this is the programme of Hungarian villages, which I would like to talk about, but first I would like to respond to two comments. One of the Molnár Gyulas, who is also no longer here, I am very sorry. He said we should talk about actual experiences in the settlements. I'd like to talk about it, but unfortunately, he won't listen, but I was going to talk about the real life of my district. The other was the former Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, three minutes before the speech of the lead speaker, went into the room, and here he spoke little about the budget, where he talked about arguing with each other. I'm here, I want to argue, I've been sitting here since 8:00 a.m., Ferenc Gyurcsány spent about half an hour in this room. I'd like to argue with him, but as soon as he finished, he drank his water, took his bottle, went out, I haven't seen him since. In fact, the DKs aren't here either. So it's very difficult to argue, not just about his social demagogy, but at all about the entire budget. We can argue when we're in front of each other. At the moment, I see that we may be able to argue with the better Members, if such a topic arises, with no one else from the opposition. I'm really sorry about that. But I'll get to what I have to say. So for the second time in 30 years, Hungarian villages have been included in the budget, which I am very pleased about. My special concern is the issue of the Hungarian villages, since these villages have practically been wiped out by the Bolsheviks and liberals since the Blue Ticket elections, and later along with the Liberals, only the Bolsheviks tried to wipe them off the face of the earth for the first time. Mátyás Rákosi and his friends, who started with the debauchery of the farmland world, began after the revolution of 56 when the region breathed, did everything they could to help the boys of Pest, and then came János Kádár, the traitor, and did what he thought he had to do, tried to do everything he could to make sure that the remaining farms and villages were also depopulated. What was very regrettable, as the settlements were trying to group them into common villages, very few developments were brought to the settlements, virtually the small farms were abolished, and they had forced people to move to the cities and leave the villages. This is what we need to fix, I think, and after 2010, we started doing this with various improvements. It was one of the steps of this, I think, that the huge debt which also affected the villages, which after the Gyurcsány government and the Liberálbolshevik governments, I say, remained in the villages, the government took this one step away from the villages. This was a tremendous help, since in order to maintain their educational institutions, they had to take credit. No mistake, these villages were not trying to develop from the loan, they were trying to maintain their institutions, they were trying to survive under the Bolshevik government, and fortunately, most of the villages managed to survive. But what else did they do? There came Gyula Horn, who also did everything to prevent the villages from developing, then Ferenc Gyurcsány, who first bragged that he had a problem that Hungarian young people were not mobile enough and did not want to go to work abroad, of course he was talking about something else, and later he said that everyone could go away from Hungary, because it is not good for him that they are here, and perhaps they do not agree with him. They then made every effort to make the villages depopulated, reduced bus services, train services, and cut subsidies. They were practically schools where the state had already given 25-30 percent support, all the others had to be collected by the settlements, which is why what I said was that we kept our schools on loans, and I myself tried to maintain the school in Twopos as mayor on credit. I think it is important that we have settled the local government's budget once the loans have been taken away. This was a huge step, since we freed the loans and transformed the support of the municipalities. As a result, the municipalities could breathe, and today, as Zoltán Kovács said, they are not busy with how to finance a mandatory task, but small settlements can also focus on development. And the Hungarian village program helps them very much in this precisely, as it tries to provide support in several areas. The first area is that we can even approach these villages. We spend some 50 billion forints this year and next year to renovate the lower road networks leading to the villages, in order to reach the villages at all. I can tell you that there are several settlements in my district where the roads are in bad condition, but this year, for example, in the case of the town of Masters' Landing, which is a sack settlement, and where it is very difficult to go by bus, this village's opening road is being renovated, as is, say, the renovation of the trench access road, which is also another sack settlement. These are very important renovations, I think. [[18.30]] Then I think it is very important that we help people stay in these villages and that young people settle there. In this respect, I think that one of our most important steps is the introduction of the village CSOK. Thank you so much for this. There is a great deal of interest in the village CSOK in my area, too, and I am sure that many young people will use it, and many people will move out of the villages, seeing that jobs are not so difficult to achieve today. After all, we have come to the point that the enormous unemployment that we have inherited is practically a walk in which this unemployment has virtually fallen to zero, but there is more labour demand than there is unemployment. So it's important that we go this way. The villages have needs. When they found out that there was going to be a Hungarian village program, I called the mayors, and we started talking about what mayor would like to accomplish in his settlement, as it is possible to buy equipment for the renovated medical clinics, because 18 medical offices in my area have been renewed. Indeed, it would be very good to buy new tools in them, and they can now apply for them. This is very important and thank you very much for your support. It's possible to renovate inland roads. It is possible to renew municipal community spaces, which the villages have not been able to do so far. Medical offices can be renovated. I am very proud that in my district, there is only one doctor's office that has not been renovated, and this, if everything goes well, will happen from this year's tender. I also consider this important. But countless educational institutions have renewed in my area, kindergartens, schools. In this program, the settlements have the opportunity to buy preschool tools and toys in the yard of these renewed kindergartens, which I also consider important. It is very good to be able to renovate kindergartens, not only to buy tools, but also to renovate kindergartens, and I think it is very important that this application also allows the creation of crèches, and will be used by a large number of my settlements. The town halls can be renewed with the help of this tender, and we can renew service apartments. It's an important thing. A lot of people would think why. Indeed, in villages it is very important for teachers and doctors working there to be able to settle down and live there, even if they do not need a permanent resident, and they need a place to serve, or, for example, the district commissioner, and it is very important that we can renew it. As far as farm centres and farmhouses are concerned, it is important to serve as a village manager, and to help this, there is a system of bus from Tányokondnok, which can also be applied for by the municipalities. I didn't tell you every single branch of this, but I think that the entire proposal, all the 150 billion that is available to Hungarian villages this year and what is available in the budget for next year, can ensure that Hungarian villages can survive. Thank you so much for that. I am sure that this step is also an important step in the path for which we, Members, all of us, have to work, so that the Carpathian Basin will continue to be loud with Hungarian words in a thousand years' time, the Hungarian should still be the largest nation in the Carpathian Basin, and we should control this pool. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-19-88	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana. [[Tibor Bana: Sorry, let me ask for a one-minute technical break. He's pinning his microphone.]] Be good, Congressman. [[Tibor Bana: Can we get the clock back?]] I'm gonna count on this little technical break.
u2019-06-19-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I would like to present my amendments to the department of Vas, in particular to the constituency of Körmend. Let me point out, in particular, that, given the scarcity of time, of course, I will not be able to go into the presentation of the amendments in detail, but I think it is very important to give a comprehensive picture of the situation of Vas county both for small towns and small towns, and to outline what developments would be needed in our county.216 settlements are located in Vas County, and 136 of these are less than 500 inhabitants, which means 63 percent of the towns of Vas County belong to the small villages, and we can find even within them people whose population is less than 200 people, and these are classified as dwarf villages. But I think it is very important that we provide life opportunities suitable for even the smallest settlements. In this context, I have endeavoured to draw up the amendments that I have tabled. Before I begin to present these, let me refer to some important road development that is absolutely necessary in Vas County, even because there is currently not a single kilometer of motorways in our county. I would also like to remind you that although the renovation of the 8 has begun, this is not happening in four lanes against Viktor Orbán's earlier promises, even though the Prime Minister promised on two occasions that the 8 will be four lanes. Unfortunately, Viktor Orbán lied to those who listened to him there during his visits. This is particularly painful because he and his party were supported in a very large proportion in the city of Körmend during the various elections, yet he was able to express such an obvious lie, since we can see that this road development will only take place twice in one lane. But there are also other sections of the road that are important, so I would like to refer, for example, to road 76 after the Mountain Backsal. Here it must be acknowledged that steps have already been taken in recent years from Körmend to Hegyhátsál, but the development of the section in the direction of Zalaegerszeg would also be essential, as we can talk about a very dangerous road section, which is true of the 86th section between Szombathely and Church Radoc or even between Körmend and Szőce. We can talk about a section of the road which is heavily loaded by truck traffic in this case. I'd like to bring your case 87 here, the section between Szombathely and Kőszeg. In this context, many promises have been made in recent years, but no substantive steps have been taken. I have also tabled a proposal for a amending budget so that this can change and we can finally see action in this matter. As I have said, I am just pointing out what improvements would be needed in small towns and small towns in Vas county, but I would like to underline that I also consulted with the local leaders and important local public figures before I tabled these budget amendments. I would like to bring here the importance of building a dam system in Csákánydoroszló, which would be necessary from a flood protection point of view. By the way, I have already put forward a proposal in this context over the course of last year. Then it didn't get any support. I trust that this will change, because we can talk about a settlement of nearly 2 thousand people in the case of Csákánydoroszló located near Körmend near Route 8, so it is absolutely important to implement this development. The city of Csepreg in the constituency of Sárvár-Kőszeg, in consultation with our representative of the local government, Dániel Varga, I made two proposals for amending the budget. One concerns the preservation of the tangible heritage. Here I have to mention the name of Lőrinc Wellner, a teacher who has done a great deal to keep this in Csepregen. These values should also be preserved for posterity, which is why I have drafted this motion. The other calls for road renovation, in the case of Téglágyári út, which leads to the mountain of Csepreg. I am very confident that they will be able to support this proposal from a pro-government perspective and take into account the interests of the Titans. Döröske is a small settlement even at Vas county level, there are fewer than 100 people living there, but specific development needs have been developed and plans are available for them, whether for the construction of bus turns or for the establishment of a community space, for the construction of a tourist accommodation, the problem of collecting sewage is waiting for a solution, and the purchase of the property next to the lake would also be important for the settlement. Felsőmarác is located at the gate of the Őrség, and a tender has already been submitted for the renovation of the village house, but it could not win due to small formal technical reasons, but it would be very important for this development to be implemented in order to boost local community life. As regards gastro, I consulted Mayor Szabolcs Nagy Jobbikós, so I presented a proposal for the renovation of the village hall. I would like to refer specifically to the development of the kindergarten here, the importance of creating a gym and gymnasium, as well as the construction of a new sports locker room in the village. Harasztafalu is a settlement near Körmend, and the solution to the problem of the main road and drainage cannot wait any longer. Here, in connection with the main road of the village, it should be said that if an accident occurs on 86, there will be a great deal of traffic, and many people will choose this road if they want to get to Szombathely or come home from work, school to Körmend and its surroundings. So it would certainly be timely to develop. But the same can be said of the renovation of the medical office or of the renovation of the funeral home. Kam is also located along the 8th, but after Vasvár to Budapest. If I mention the Jeli Arboretum, then perhaps some people will be reminded of where this settlement might be, since it is located near Kam. Here it would be essential to renovate the kindergarten, and I have also made an amendment to the renewal of the funeral home and the cemetery, as well as to repair the drainage trenches. [[18.40]] Körmend is the centre of the constituency, here Miklós Auer, our representative of the local government in Körmend has been trying to do everything in the past years at the level of the council to promote various developments. I would like to bring here the case of the renovation of the Bartók Béla residential estate, in particular the 5 of Bartók Street. and 5/b. the importance of refurbishing it. Numerous promises have been made in this context over the past few years, but nothing has happened. It's time for that to change. Then I would like to refer to the importance of renovating downtown roads, the construction of a sidewalk on the northern section of Hunyadi Street, the renovation of a bicycle road on the side of the city Police College. The question of cinema is also a matter of my heart. In Szentgotthárd, the Csákányi László Film Theatre has been operating as a cinema for over a hundred years, and Körmend deserves to have a cinema again. The completion of the refurbishing of the flag would also be essential, as would the renovation of the old-town façades. The establishment of a sports centre has been a topic in the city for many years or the renovation of this in the field of the Police College, as well as the former Stihl building could be used if it could be purchased. In the amendment, I went through in particular what options were available in this context. The renovation of the facade and roof of the buildings in Szabadság tér is also important, as well as the solution of precipitation water drainage in the vicinity of the railway station. There have been serious improvements over the last few years, and this must be acknowledged, but the situation with regard to drainage is outrageous, and this should be changed. Finally, I would like to bring the reconstruction of the water mill here as a circular amendment. Kőszeg is located in the constituency of Sárvár-Kőszeg. Kálmán Rába, our local council representative and head of county assembly group, I have submitted proposals, one of which concerns the construction of the beach bath, another new cemetery has already been taken at the level of the body representing the implementation of a new cemetery, but the possibilities are limited, and I would also like to bring the renovation of roads here in relation to Dózsa György Street, Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Street and the Upper Boulevard. These would be very timely with regard to Kőszeg, as some of the sidewalks are in catastrophic condition. As far as Vasvár is concerned, which is also a city in the constituency of Körmend, the development of the cycling path is important in addition to the 8th, and the renovation of the Szentkút Parkerdő cannot wait any longer. I have made proposals in this regard. Finally, I would like to talk about the amendments tabled in favour of our city, Szentgotthárd. In connection with these, I have consulted Gábor Lábodi, our municipal representative, as well as the members of the joint Szentgotthárdért Association, with those who wish to challenge themselves as candidates for local government representatives in the autumn local elections. This is how I presented the proposal for the development of Lake Hársas, the promotion of parking in the grove, which I have already done in previous years, because even in the case of a small rain, there is a shameful situation in downtown Szentgotthárd, and there are parking spaces in this case. Refurbishing public roads would also be important. Here I am thinking of Hunyadi Street, Füzesi Street, Árpád Street or even the 1st of May, but further state-controlled roads could be brought here. The renovation of Kossuth Lajos Street is taking place, but it is also important to take meaningful steps in other areas. And last but not least, the establishment of a nursing home would be very necessary in our city, Szentgotthárd. Over the past few years, many proposals have been made in this context, and we have also consulted professional organisations, and I think that it is precisely time for action to be taken to improve the situation of older people living in and around Szentgotthárd. Overall, I have therefore tabled 42 proposals for amending the budget for next year, and I very much hope, my fellow members of the Government, that it will not be the case, as it was last year, when these proposals were voted out in a package and without any substantive justification in the various committees, but will take into account the interests and voices of the people in Vas County, in particular those in the constituency in Körmend, and will consider these amendments, whether they are proposals for small towns or cities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-19-90	Thank you, Congressman. Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Happy.
u2019-06-19-91	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In my previous comment, the Hungarian small town programme was not suitable for the villages, which I hope will be launched as soon as possible, since there are 5 cities in my area, and I am very grateful that two of these cities have recently received HUF 200-200 million for the expansion of the inland road network. This is a very important program. I have to mention here that two motorways are still being built in my area, one of which is the motorway M4, where we have the contractor of the shut-down section, and the actual construction work is about to start soon, and the section between Tiszamürt-Kondoros M44 will be handed over this year, and the other sections will be under construction, and I hope that each section will be completed by the deadline. This is the road that connects to Kunszentmárton, and I ask for the government's help in this, that the Kunszentmárton bypasser, which avoids the road to Szentes, road 45, avoids Kunszentmárton, will provide resources for this in the budget. I think it is very important that the enormous traffic passing through Kunszentmárton does not destroy the houses any longer. The kunszentmártons fear that when the M44 expressway is completed and delivered, the traffic will grow even more in Kunszentmárton, even more than today's enormous traffic, and their houses will be destroyed even more and there will be a very high risk of accidents. I therefore consider this to be an important matter in which I ask the government's support so that it can be built towards the Szentes bypass of Kunszentmárton. I am very pleased that the program will be launched as soon as possible, since our cities can continue to develop. I am sure that these will include important programs such as the Hungarian village programme, and they will also ask the city leaders about each such programme, of course, as we have asked the village leaders what is most important for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-92	Thank you, Congressman. We're going back to normal speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán.
u2019-06-19-93	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, In short, I would like to address the issue of science, research and innovation. All the more so, because it has been said on several occasions by opposition representatives that this budget is the life of the future. It's the way it is, it's too much to say it's silly, because it's so absurd. Because if there is a clearly defined, well-preferred area of this budget, it is certain that research, innovation, science. There is also a significant increase in resources here and there are significant structural changes. So what we have to say is that, in this respect, in the 2020 budget, we find the guarantee elements, because the starting point for the development of an economy that brings income is, after all, how innovative we are and how competitive we can be. If you need to talk about numbers, then allow me to say that the budget for the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund will be about 75 percent higher than it has been before. I think this is a very substantial expansion. In the area of aid for research, development and innovation, there is a surplus of 32 billion, which has already been mentioned. Of this 32 billion surplus, 18 billion will be transferred to this National Research, Development and Innovation Fund. This fund will consist of two parts, two parts: the basic part of research and the basic part of innovation. The research base share is 49,5 billion and the innovation base is 65.2 billion, the two being 114.7 billion. However, I think that again is not a negligible item. The research base will finance the new national excellence programme, the thematic excellence programme, the higher education institutional excellence programme, the basic research of individual and research groups, the participation and participation of researchers in international cooperation; in fact, the former OTKA will be included here. Let us also remember that, in addition to this, there are research institutes, state-owned research institutes, which are carrying out basic research. Just think that this is the Veritas Institute or, for example, the Hungarian Institute of Research, and we could list the line even longer. [[18.50]] From the Innovation Fund, in 2020 corporate innovation and market-oriented R &amp; D activities carried out jointly by the Academy and the corporate sector will be supported, and this will also be the main source of innovation support in domestic and international cooperation. In the budget of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, there is also a separate envelope, specifically linked to research and innovation, which is a $14.1 billion item, which will be financed by national laboratories. This amount will essentially ensure the management and maintenance of the ELI, the roughly 2.1 billion required for this, and the scientific project to be launched to increase the use of the laser research centre in Szeged, which is essentially a project to solve nuclear waste management, and the creation of a molecular fingerprint testing centre is also linked to this item. In the 2019 budget, i.e. in this year's budget, the research and development tasks in the ITM chapter appear in the 2020 budget at the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, under that name, which is approximately HUF 48,5 billion. This includes basically the tasks that had previously been supported by MTA research institutes, research sites, support for EU and Hungarian research institute proposals, support for infrastructure development central management renovations, support for academic excellence programmes, support for research proposals, support for research excellence, support for higher education excellence programmes. So these are very broad and inclusive programmes. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences, as a scientific company, as a public body, as well as the practice at the Academy, is available for the payment of fees of HUF 16.9 billion in next year's budget. Today, research and development and innovation have an increasingly important role to play, and universities, universities and industry will work together. In this connection, it is important to note that when we look at the numbers, it is good to know that, as in the case of municipalities, own revenues have increased significantly, so in the university world, for example, Corvinus is no longer included in this item, since Corvinus has changed its maintainer, received wealth and is not included in the budget headings. Let us also add that today most universities are constantly and dynamically increasing their own income, primarily through cooperation with industry. This is true of Pécs, true of Szeged, true of Debrecen, true of Győr, Kaposvár and, of course, the capital. They have an increasing source and research financial coverage. I even dare to risk that the scientific performance of higher education, if we look at it, is about as large as the academic research institutes, but they are far better in terms of industrial cooperation. Thus, this sphere is characterised by increasing own revenue and non-decreased state aid, which means that financial positions are improving. In this respect, some universities can produce impressive main balance sheets. Support for non-state higher education is also increasing significantly, it is almost 25 billion, 24.4 billion, and let us add that we can find, of course, higher education institutions outside the EMMI chapter, since the National University of Public Service is another institution to be interpreted within the Prime Minister's Office's chapter, but of course it belongs to higher education, and there is also research there. When it comes to higher education, allow us to mention a few issues that are not very small and which are more relevant to families from the point of view of everyday life. On the one hand, this is the framework for supporting the reduction of debt for Student Loan1, which is a $2 billion framework. This is obviously linked to the fact that the rate of interest has already been reduced by the Student Loan Centre this year, which must be allocated the appropriate source, and this follows such a logic for the future as well. Student loan2 also has an interest rate subsidy of HUF 1.3 billion, and let us not ignore the fact that the student normative is increasing, or that the Student Loan Center will launch a new programme that will create a financing facility for students who are due and needing it from October. Essentially, these grants and benefits all contribute to reducing the financial burden on students and families, as appropriate, and to reducing the financial impact of higher education studies. So I think that science and, in this sense, the areas of higher education related to science and innovation have good positions in the following year, they are on sound footing for the budget, so this budget can be supported from this point of view and also from a number of other aspects, which have already been said here, I think that it can be supported with a calm heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-94	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik.
u2019-06-19-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, When we are discussing the 2020 budget, we cannot bypass Budapest, the city that is the home of every fifth Hungarian person, and where 40 percent of the nation's best is produced, i.e. 40 percent of the total national product. When we usually read government newspapers or talk to government actors and talk about Budapest, there are usually big, beautiful plans. There is a concept of Budapest 2030, which aims to build more than 62 facilities out of HUF 1100 billion. When we read about these, we really feel that it will come here on Canaan, huge investments, gigatenders, new super-hospital in South Buda, new bridge on the southern part of the Danube, metro renovations, Liget projects, permanent stadiums, flood protection, detachment of downtown, just to highlight a few of the large-scale plans. I am the only one who adds that the beauty of these large investments is that it usually involves further destruction and reduction of the narrow green spaces of the capital anyway. But if you look at what is real about big plans, unfortunately, what we need to see today is that Budapest is today a city of promised but missed developments. Today, Budapest is characterised by smog, traffic jams, parking mafia and bustling public transport. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, have promised a single transport system, but instead you have destroyed the BKK and outsourced the key HÉV in the transport of the capital and agglomeration. It has been promised several times, and the introduction of a single lease system has been going on for years. In order to be able to come from Érd to Kossuth Square today, at least three different companies have to buy tickets or tickets, Volánbusz, MÁV-Start Zrt. and BKK instead of XXI. It would be able to make use of a single, service-minded community transport in a 100th-century way. There is still no electronic ticket, which has been promised for years, and instead there is an outdated paper ticket system, where, if you want to travel a stop, you have to pay the same amount as if you wanted to travel all the way from Újpest to Kőbány on the entire 16 kilometer section of the blue metro. Anyone who regularly commutes to the capital with a zoner or passenger train, such as Üllő, Vác, Gyal, Biatorbágy or Isaszeg, is faced with half an hour of delays and flight delays every day. These make the lives of hundreds of thousands of people miserable on a daily basis, most of them also acknowledge the sad Hungarian reality, that they will also not be able to reach their workplace in time that day, or that the valuable time spent with the family will also be left out in the afternoon on playgrounds. I suggest, honourable pro-government colleagues, that you take some time from your time, visit the Western Railway Station, not far from here, and see how angry, disappointed people wait in the plus 40 degrees and minus 10 degrees, and you will see that old, old people and young family people stand idly by, because they don't even get a piece of information from the MÁV about how late the train they're waiting for is at all. [[19.00]] And if it is public transport because it is not public transport, it is mostly public transport, the average age of buses, trams, trolleys and HÉVs is constantly ageing against their earlier promises, the updating of the assets stopped years ago. Half of today's busted bus fleet is over ten years old, and it does not help to import used vehicles sometimes from Western Europe, on an ad hoc basis, from Western European countries. The gymborassó of professional incompetence, my fellow Members, is that today there are more than 40 types of buses on duty in Budapest. Under such conditions, it is not surprising to hear on a weekly basis that the buses that ignite and burst out of smoke itself, and although the BKV is engaged in the maintenance heroic struggle, they are not wizards, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to meet the expectations of the ever-growing travelling public in the face of community transport with a constantly decreasing team of experts travelling abroad. That's how we keep the slippery and sleazy flights. Then there's the question of the P+R parking lot. Everyone knows that there is not enough of them, everyone knows that much more is needed, because there is a huge increase in the proportion of people moving into and out of the agglomeration, and every municipal campaign promises to build new parking houses on important suburban hubs, and then nothing happens. They hand over up to one or two thousand parking spaces, while every morning cars enter the capital area in the order of 100,000. When you look at the subways, it's not as rosy as it is. In the plan of Balázs Mór in 2014, you promised to extend metro line 1 and replace the outdated trains, as we can see, no hoe cuts were made; as you promise year after year to connect metro line 2 with the Gödöllő HÉV, and although you can hear from time to time about several billion HUF plans, I do not have to say that to this day there has not been a single cut. Campaign-to-campaign promises to build the cancer-crossing wingline, whereas the sad reality is that the 17th is the 17th. It still takes more than an hour to enter the city from the district to the inhabitants of the agglomeration. You also promised to extend metro line 3 to Kápusmegyer, and although this is regularly announced according to the latest target date, this summer will be the beginning of the design, there has still not been a single cut. The newly delivered northern line of Metro 3 was, by the way, a pathetic picture of dripping, dripping floors, semi-infested claddings and such amazing conditions that no one wanted to believe that we had burned 72 billion forints of public money to renovate this section. We can't even begin to think about the state of the south line, and then later on the middle line. We have failed to solve accessibility, but we are still in the European Union in 2019. To avoid misunderstandings: Non-accessible stops not only make it difficult for our countrymen, but also for mothers pushing strollers and elderly citizens, to travel to the extremes. And the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that metro 3 refurbished trains are already hot up to 35 degrees in the first days of summer, and no one has thought that these trains should be equipped with climate, that is again, I think, a joke category. But let's move on to subway 4. We all know the story of this, and you like to mention it when you have to divert the word from your own corruption cases to the government between 2002 and 2010. Metro 4 has become a state-of-the-art, expensive public money cemetery with various fraudulent treatments, by the way, as far as I'm concerned, none of you major accomplices or major cops have been able to account for it, just as you failed to account for anyone before 2010, but this should be your responsibility. You promised that New Palota would be able to travel by rail, and that the tram would be brought in at least to Astoria. I don't have to tell you, there hasn't been a single cut. The same is the case with metro 5 - Rackeve and Csepel HÉVs, which are designed to be extended to Calvin Square, but although they have been promising not only that they have not been built for years, but the stations are also in an increasingly unsustainable state, this is also true for the entire HÉV station. You have to take off at Csepel HV station H7 in the morning hours, you can see that at peak hours, six wagons carry more than 700 people at six-minute intervals, and anyone who has already travelled with these trains in the morning knows precisely that tens of thousands of people have to travel on airless, overcrowded flights, swimming in their own sweats, so that they can get into or get home from work in the afternoon. Instead of renovating, we need a complete replacement of the fleet over the age of 40, but you're not doing anything about it. As far as the trams are concerned, here the experiments started to restore the unified tram system that was dismantled in the '70s, as part of which they handed over the tram in Buda. On the Pest side, however, the work did not continue, because of the transfers, the residents are still at a significant disadvantage to their fellow citizens in Buda. It would be a pleasure if there was progress in this matter. We also need to talk about the traffic in cars, which has paralyzed the capital, and those who are getting on a tram or metro from their comfortable, air-conditioned public or municipal service Audi should see this only if something has to be handed over in front of the press with a big cut-off; I note that this is happening less and less often, so this surreal image is becoming less and less common to the public. Today, Budapest is the city of permanent traffic jams, as a result of which Budapest is the second most polluted city in the European Union, and Bucharest alone is the capital behind us on this list. Meanwhile, in the Austrian capital, where there are still 480,000 trees, a new parking of EUR 8 million is planned with an extraordinary budget decision. In the meantime, in Budapest, we see that even our existing green surfaces are in danger, we can only think of the Roman bank dam, the small forest in Kispest or, for example, the City Park. That is why, as a representative of Jobbik, I submitted a proposal for a budget amendment that would dramatically increase the landscape in Budapest, the green surfaces in Budapest. In the summer heat, climate change is causing us to face increasingly unbearable heat waves, not only for passengers travelling on HÉV and by subway, but for everyone who travels in Budapest. All - falling asphalts and concrete masses vomit the retorted heat, and for this city to be a more livable, greener, more family-friendly, more pleasant climate-friendly city with more comfortable air and temperature, it is necessary to preserve the green surfaces and radically increase their size. Vienna, by the way, can not only be a good example of the landscape for Budapest, but also a good example of the parking. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát held a press conference today, where we learned that the maintenance fee for a piece of parking space in Vienna knows, in an annual comparison, how much money, fellow Members? It is a quarter of Budapest, the quarter of Vienna, in the Austrian capital. How is that possible? Obviously, let's say that Vienna's fellow citizens are luckier from the point of view of the fact that there is no MSZP-Fidesz-background in the parking lot, they do not have to suffer this, and let's say, these revenues they collect from parking can sustain not only the parking, but also the improvement of the roads and public transport. Therefore, we say that according to Jobbik, the parking system in Budapest needs to be placed under full state control, there is no need for intermediary companies that are hotbeds for various municipal slugs and corruptions. [[19.10]] Finally, in addition to Community development, the development of a bicycle road network could be an alternative to reducing car traffic. We were happy to read the news in the press in May and to finally say something positive after many negatives, we are very pleased that, after many, many years of working together with the Hungarian Cycling Club, with the help of their expert, you will implement a bicycle road development plan that manages Budapest and the agglomeration in a single concept. We hope that this will be effective, and we hope that this will be done in such a way that it will benefit the people who live here, those who travel here, and those who travel by bicycle. And that is how it really is, and not just downtown, not just the agglomeration, but also, let's say, the South-Pest part, which is also the stepchild of cycling, is also good for it, so today I also submitted a budget amendment that will increase this amount. In conclusion, and now at the end of my time, I was planning to talk about the health system that shows amazing conditions in Budapest, although my colleague László Lukács has already spoken about it, so I would not talk about it in detail. However, I think it is worth pointing out for a sentence that although the health situation throughout the country is deplorable, not even the few EU funds have been available to Budapest, with which at least a large part of rural hospitals could be rehabilitated from the outside. The health system will collapse, my fellow Members, and we better face the sad reality, it will collapse because of the lack of a doctor, it will collapse because of the exodus of nurses, nurses and health professionals, and unfortunately this collapse will happen for the first time in Budapest. Therefore, we have proposed, myself, to all the hospitals in Budapest, and my right-hand colleagues, to release the accumulated debt of the rural hospitals, which is a necessary step, but does not solve the problem, so I suggest that you do not only patch the holes, but also to reform the entire health system, the supply system, and the restructuring of the structure. Do not abandon the elderly in Budapest. [[Happy Stephen: We won't let you!]] Do not abandon the sick people who have to be on the waiting list for long months, who cannot obtain minimum care on their civil rights in the framework of an emergency care in Budapest without waiting for 8-10-12 hours and without multiple transfers. I would ask you to do something about this situation, and do not abandon the residents of Budapest. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-19-96	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai indicated that he wished to speak. You have the floor.
u2019-06-19-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must be honest with you that, listening to Mr János Bencsik's comments, I first wondered whether the Member's contribution to the draft budget law for 2020. Let me say that I heard comments from Jobbik's benches that were absolutely relevant and related to the 2020 budget. But with the questions of how many buses and buses there are in the maintenance of the Budapest Transport Company, the method in which municipal companies choose to organise the journey, please, this is not the subject of the 2020 budget, and these tasks fall within the competence of the government and not the Parliament. Well, if we talk a lot about the rights and obligations of the local authorities, then let the Member allow me first to point out that the issues mentioned in your speech fall within the competence of the capital. After all, I think that the question of what the government has, what responsibility it has for local authorities to be able to carry out their tasks well. I repeat, you have basically spoken about issues that fall under the responsibility of the municipalities. However, in order to carry out these tasks, the government has done a lot of things, and I ask you to take this into account when assessing the government's steps towards Budapest. First of all, in terms of debt relief: HUF 217.7 billion of debt was taken over by the government from the capital. Secondly, if you talk about local public transport, the government took over the total debt of BKV on a one-off basis, on an individual basis. This was done before the Honourable Parliament, in an amendment to the budget law. Beyond that, what can the government do, and what is the responsibility of the government? I think, first and foremost, that creating an economic environment will help to create an economic environment that will also generate additional resources for local authorities. Please take a look at the development of the Budapest capital's revenues. It will see that due to economic expansion, local industrialisation tax revenues have increased significantly, for example as a result of the capital city having significant free resources. But I also think that, thanks to government-funded investments in tourism, for example, the number of guest nights spent has increased significantly. They also reported additional revenue to the capital on another channel. I believe that the economic policy followed by the government in 2020 is crucial to the expansion of the capital's financial potential, thereby also providing additional local tax revenues to the capital. Secondly, if we look at the budget subsidies provided by the government to carry out the tasks of the local government, we see that there is not only a system of financing mandatory tasks that applies to the capital of Budapest, the districts and all Hungarian municipalities, but also to the so-called voluntary tasks, the central budget provides significant surpluses. It would not be the government's job to finance, for example, the Zoo's investment. But this is what it does, and in the 2020 budget bill, the central budget support for this investment can be found. It would not be the government's task to provide resources for the development and renewal of the green surfaces mentioned by you, but, for example, within the framework of the Normafa programme, the government provides significant resources to renew the environment of Normafa, for a number of new investments. The green spaces, if mentioned and mentioned by Mr Liget, are once again a large-scale investment financed entirely by the central budget, which I believe can serve, in addition to its tourist value, to increase the green spaces mentioned by you. I could also list the investments financed by the central budget itself, or because economic growth also means that the central budget will be able to transfer funds, or because we can finance investments from increasing central budget resources to public tasks, but still in Budapest. I would like to end here with the thoughts that Mr President has expressed. Health situation. Expenditures will increase in 2020 within the framework of the Efficient Budapest programme. The principle-philosophical background is that there has been a very significant development of some 500 billion in the region outside Budapest, Pest county, from European Union funds and domestic sources, and we are now in a position to be able to provide new funds compared to investment in Budapest and Pest county. So next year, the budget funding of the Programme. Healthy Budapest is increasing. And if you have mentioned the financial situation of the workers in health care, I think that we have calculated a substantial improvement here too. In 2020, the workers will experience a two-stroke wage increase from January and November. This is part of the multi-annual wage increase that the government has previously communicated and which allows a very significant increase in wages over several years. Compared to 2010, we can now talk about doubling wages. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-19-98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy.
u2019-06-19-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think so, and I would also like to say to my two right-wing fellow Members that when you come to the general debate on the Hungarian budget at 8 a.m., you sometimes have critical thoughts. [[19.20]] So what I would like to suggest to you is that you accept this as a critical observation from me, that knowledge of house rules should be part of a debate culture with a Member of Parliament. So we are talking about a general debate, so I would like to suggest this to you. [[János Bencsik, Jobbik: So?]] I would also like to draw your attention to a process, since I am the representative of an area with 174 municipalities, so I think I could talk about a lot of things, but I would like to say in general that, in the past and in today's debate, the Hungarian Government has been able to allocate HUF 12,000 billion in this area and in the case of European Union funds in the current development cycle. We have been able to achieve this for two operational programmes that affected the municipalities, this is the operational programme for territorial and urban development and the rural development programme. In the 29 years since the change of regime, it has not been possible to support our villages from Hungarian central budgetary resources to this extent with the development. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the last hundred years, many of our ministers, our competent officials, have put forward proposals for a budget law, but if they can listen to us, they must have been envious of how Minister Varga or Secretary of State can defend this budget, because this has not been the case in recent decades. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-19-100	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey in a normal time frame.
u2019-06-19-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of a ten-year continuous and consistent economic policy, we can talk about things such as tax cuts and an expanding family support system in the context of the 2020 budget. We can look at improved macro indicators within the sectors, we see positive trends, and that is true for ten years. When we talk about these things, it is likely that it is worth taking a little closer look at some specific sectors or even some specific institutions within the sector. My fellow Member, Pósan, has had a little bit of an innovation in this. I think that perhaps it is time to deepen, say, in relation to an institution, what positive benefits this 2020 budget will bring, if any, for a very important national institution, and I would like to give you a few thoughts about the National University of Public Service in this respect. On 1 January 2012, the Zrínyi Miklós National Defence University and the College of Police Officers were established, as the general successor of the institutions concerned, with the accession of the outstanding Faculty of Public Administration from the Corvinus University of Budapest. As a result, a higher education institution has started its operation with the aim of becoming an emblematic institution for the future generations to serve, protect, love and commitment to the common good as an academy for the public service. Its three inter-choice institutions, the National Security Institute, the Institute for Disaster Protection and the Institute for State Research and Development will also help to achieve the goal. The latter takes care of the annual Good State Report. The report is drawn up within the framework of the Good State Research Workshop, which aims to establish an autonomous, scientifically sound measurement and evaluation methodology and database for the functioning, development and continuous reform of a good state, which is specific to the relations of the Hungarian State, but can be understood and accepted internationally. Since 2015, the report has been continuously supporting the government's work through feedback. The university has been developing dynamically from the start. In 2015, the Water Science Faculty was established with international and European studies, and then in February 2017 with water training in Baja, which aims to be the base of domestic water training. Within the framework of the institution, a significant number of specialised training courses are carried out, which is responsible for the further training of nearly 80 thousand officials. The National University of Public Service provides high-level training at the site of the former Royal Honvéd Ludovika Academy and its former buildings. As the spiritual successor of the academy, he cultivates the heritage, the legacy that the founders have already formulated 211 years ago about public service. Of course, while respecting traditions, it is also necessary to acquire modern knowledge within the educational framework of the university. Like all universities, the National University of Public Service is the home of the art of science, but any high level of science in itself does not make any institution a university; it is essential to transfer knowledge, education and training. At the National University of Public Service, training is combined with training for service, preparation for state careers and value transfer. Students of the university can prepare for the quality and conscientious performance of the basic services to be provided by the State. These services include peace, security, public order, disaster resolution, good administration, the prevention of terrorist threats, the collection of public burdens, the tracing of criminals, and then the preservation of criminals, effective diplomacy, all of which are provided by the state through a complex, cooperative system of organs and institutions. This is the order of cooperation of the National University of Public Service with five university faculties, where the vocations of military defence, national security, law enforcement and civil administration learn from each other and from each other. The National University of Public Service is a fully-fledged Hungarian state university with a wide international partnership, accredited for another five years. The rate of application for basic periods is very high. The training offer of the National University of Public Service is broadening year after year, i.e. the candidates can choose one from more and more courses in the first place. As regards Master's courses, indicators above the over-registration rate of 1.5 times can be measured, so there is also a strong demand for students to obtain a master's degree at the National University of Public Service. The measurement of student satisfaction is essential for the development of the university, so the institution asks students about it from time to time. The vast majority of instructors have received excellent and good educational quality from students, which is a fact, I think, very convincing and meaningful. Since 2013, the National University of Public Service has been the core institution of the administrative training system and its trainings have been attended by tens of thousands of public service officials each year. It is therefore essential to ensure a higher level of education in this training system. In the framework of further training, the National University of Public Service can respond quickly and effectively to the current challenges of public operation. More than ten specialist training courses prepare officials to solve current problems. Another indicator of the quality of basic and master's courses is that in recent years, students from 42 universities in 37 countries have studied in English at the National University of Public Service, and nearly 30 foreign students have received doctoral training. In 2015, an English-language master's class was launched on International Public Service Relations, to which an increasing number of foreign audiences appear. Of course, quality work also requires quality infrastructure. The government decided in May 2012 to rebuild the historic building complex of Ludovika, while renewing the Orczy garden and all the university's facilities to support the basic functions and university operation, with additional functions and services. The investment has been declared by the government as a priority for the national economy, stressing the importance of the quality of public service training. [[19.30]] The home of the National University of Public Service, the Ludovika Campus, was built and the largest public park of the renewed Inner Pest, the Orczy Garden, was just missed by my opposition colleague, so green spaces were created and built. The renovated historical building of the Ludovika Academy with modern university library and educational spaces, new educational, theoretical and practical training buildings, colleges, university shooting grounds, sports halls, indoor swimming pools and outdoor sports fields has been made available to university students. The horseyard is also completely renewed, with a prize-riding and prize-jumping course. A sports pool has been established, as well as a warm-up and educational pool, which is planned to be open to the general public. Here I would like to turn to the directly relevant part of the budget which is also relevant, as the investment goes beyond the university. Thanks to the improvements made, the whole of Józsefváros became a nicer, greener, safer place, offering much more sports and leisure opportunities. We can therefore see that since the establishment of the university, it has been constantly developing and expanding both in terms of quality of education and infrastructure. Of course, this requires adequate funding and resources, which can be said to have been allocated 3 billion HUF 899 million to personnel allowances in 2019, in the last year's budget, now in the 2020 budget, we can say that HUF 7 billion 496 million will be added to the budget, which represents an increase of more than 3.5 billion. We saw a total of HUF 185 million in the 2019 budget for the beneficiaries, with a huge expansion of HUF 6 billion and HUF 79 million in the 2020 budget, which is an increase of HUF 5 billion and HUF 6 billion. So a little closer to their specific, very important national institution, we see that the expansion, the provision of functions, is preferred for the budget, and the budget figures show how important a national institution, where appropriate, the University of Public Service, is for the state and how much the state supports the national mission of this university and other higher education institutions. That is why I think that I can wholeheartedly recommend the budget to your attention in the light of this one moment and ask you to vote for it in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-102	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai.
u2019-06-19-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, You know, my narrowest Patriam, my constituency is the inner part of Budapest, Erzsébetváros and Terézváros, which is the most densely populated part of the city here in the capital. At the same time, the life of a very rich, colorful, vibrant, prosperous church life and religious communities will be realized in this small-scale part of the city. I think it is important to say this because, in the context of the 2020 budget, I would like to say a few words about the churches and their support for the churches. I think it is important to say, as an introduction, that not only in the context of spiritual practices, but also on other occasions, I regularly communicate with religious communities and church leaders, and they make it absolutely clear that we all know, feel, see, experience that church life, the life of religious communities, is going through unprecedented prosperity; to highlight, for example, our fellow Jews, unlike other events in France, their freedom of religion and conscience, they can live their lives safely and peacefully here in Hungary and Budapest. I think it is important to say this because members and leaders of ecclesiastical communities put it this way that Hungary is in the world of bloody world where Christianity is most persecuted, for them it is an island of peace and security, in international language safe harbour, safe harbour, safe, wave-free and calm port. Our Fundamental Law VII. The state and religious communities can cooperate to achieve Community goals. The introductory part of the church law, its preamble describes the role of churches in Hungarian society, and thus highlights the need to support churches, especially the ecclesiastical institutions. I also quote:. The religious communities in Hungary are a key source of value and community-building factors in society, which play an important role in the life of education, education, higher education, health, charity, social, family, children and youth, as well as in cultural, environmental, sports and other activities, as well as in the care of national consciousness. The preamble quoted above is not only a so-called desire-driven, vocal formulation, but also a statement of the role and weight of churches in our society. According to a survey in 2018, 80 percent of Hungarian people consider Christianity, Christian culture, to be valuable. More than 55 percent of people claim to belong to some denomination, mostly one of the historical Christian churches. The existence of social trust and social need is well demonstrated by the unbroken interest in church schools and ecclesiastical social, health and child protection institutions. Since 2010, the number of preschools and primary and secondary school students has doubled by about 220,000 students, this is about 13.9 percent compared to the whole, and in terms of social benefits, thanks to God, church attendance has increased from 11.5 percent to 23.3%. As the Fundamental Law states, the state and religious communities operate separately, and the need for cooperation and a joint effort to achieve Community objectives arises precisely from the separation of functions. Unfortunately, not all the time the state considered churches to be a real partner in performing important social tasks. The MSZP-SZDSZ Balliberal governments also did not give to churches, church institutions, what would have been done under the Vatican agreement, often endangering the functioning of the respective church institutions, risking school teaching or providing social benefits. After 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP Party Government also had to remedy and restore significant losses in this area. Thanks to the church grants, more than a hundred new churches were built during the Fidesz-KDNP administration, and nearly 3,000 churches were renewed not only in Hungary but also in the Hungarian residential areas of the Carpathian Basin. The renovation of churches, church schools and other religious buildings serves both religious and religious community life, cultural preservation, but also has a positive impact on the image of the settlements and on the growth of tourism. It should be noted here that Western societies and their leaders allow wild liberalism and the expansion of Islam to irresponsiblely allow these wonderful buildings to be destroyed, sold, destroyed, leaving their fellow countrymen seeking help without any help, almost starving on the street, also looking for their spiritual needs. The church is one of the defining symbols of Christian culture and community for the Hungarian people, as it is a significant symbol of our identity, which is why it is our duty to provide for them. I find it very important in this world of value crisis to support religious community programmes addressing different age groups. We supported thousands of religious, family or scout camps, retreats or pilgrimages that contribute to the strengthening of local communities. [[19.40]] In the future, the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association intends to continue its policy as a partner in the renewal of the nation, thus making the area a significant resource in 2020. The budget law of 2020 amounts to more than HUF 65 billion of basic church subsidies. The figures speak for themselves: Church support is more than 2.8 times higher than in 2010, i.e. 277 percent of the 2010 subsidies will be allocated to churches in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, An evaluation of the period 2011-2018 shows that more than a hundred new Hungarian churches in Hungary and abroad could have been built, and nearly three thousand churches in Hungary and abroad could be renewed, and several parishes, parishes, church communities could be renovated or built, and significant progress has been made in the renovation of church schools and social institutions. There are still many church constructions and renovations in progress, wherever we are in the country, in Budapest, we can see erected church buildings almost everywhere. I would like to give some examples of how to use the funds. If I may, I would like to start with the Catholic Church. Since 2017, the government has supported the preparation of the International Eucharistic Congress of 2020 for more than HUF 24 billion. This is one of the most important world events of the Catholic Church, a serious religious, cultural and diplomatic event that will once again direct the world's attention to Hungary, while expressing our commitment to Christianity. Turning to supporting the key educational institutions of the Reformed Church: 3 billion HUF was needed, which was intended for the Lónyay Street Reformed High School and College, as well as the Baár-Madas Reformed High School, Primary School and College. Anyone who has been to these high schools and institutions has seen that, in addition to the high educational standards, the state of the buildings has been very different. I would like to continue the line with the support of the Evangelical Church. The Great Church in Pécsaba, which is the largest Lutheran church in Central Europe, was renovated by the government for HUF 550 million. In support of the Jewish denominations, Mazsihisz received HUF 717 million to renovate the Rumbach Sebestyén Street Synagogue in Budapest, while EMIH received HUF 14.9 million to renovate the synagogue in Budapest. Supports were also used for priority tourism investments, such as the development support of the Pannonhalm High Father of the Hungarian Benedictine Congregation in the years 2017 and 2019 total HUF 4.5 billion, while support for the first phase of the reconstruction of the Basilica of Esztergom Cathedral was also close to HUF 4.5 billion. The list of public service and community investment appropriations for the church has been newly built into the budget with a budget of HUF 12 billion. We want to support the Catholic kindergarten development programme, but the aim of the field is to draw attention to the need for institutional and infrastructure development of public tasks provided by churches, and to ensure, in the long term, the need for resources separate from the activity of faith. Support for the religious activities of Hungarians living in foreign and diaspora has also been permanently integrated with a budget of HUF 500 million. In this way, we want to support the activities of the religious, community-organization, attitude-forming and tradition-keeping to preserve the identity and culture of Hungarians living abroad and in the diaspora. In keeping the identity of foreign Hungarians, the service of the churches, in particular the verbs, the teaching of faith and spiritual care of the native tongue, is of particular importance. The budget for 2020 is the budget of the families, which will also apply in the ecclesiastical field, so we want to support the families' camps organised by the churches, which represent a valuable pastime, physical and psychological uplifting and efficient community building for all generations. Ladies and gentlemen, Knowing the corner numbers of the planned budget for churches, we can conclude that the government sees the churches as partners again and gives them all the support they need to ensure that the financial and infrastructural background necessary for the performance of the social tasks undertaken is available to them and thus to the Hungarian population involved in the social tasks. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask you for the adoption of the budget. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Molnár.
u2019-06-19-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our fellow Member, János Bencsik, was just visualizing the impending collapse of the health care system. First of all, I would like to tell him that by making this statement, he has qualified and qualified the work of those working in this care system. [[János Bencsik: No! No, not at all.]] the work of those workers, those nurses, assistants, nurses and doctors [[János Bencsik: They keep him alive! That's why he hasn't collapsed yet.]] who are doing everything in their power to achieve results in the recovery of patients. I also thank you very much for this work for the health care professionals and doctors. My fellow Member, László Lukács, spoke about the underfunding of this health care system. [[János Bencsik: 600 billion HUF missing!]] Without mentioning a single number, or possibly explaining the numbers of this healthcare system, what we have done in this care system since 2010, how we have taken over this health care system, and in the last years, what kind of high-priority additional resources certain areas of expertise have gained in the care system. I'd like to light up a little bit of budget numbers from a health perspective. What I see is that the budget for healthcare for next year will also provide security. First of all, since 2017, we have to state that, as a fact, the health budget has increased by more than HUF 100 billion, and this positive process, thank God, will continue in 2020. Next year, if we look at the consolidated functional expenses, they will increase from HUF 1784 billion to HUF 1968 billion, so next year there will be HUF 184 billion more money for health care than this year. We should also remember that since 2010, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund has been increased every year, unfortunately, several times before 2010, we have experienced a deficit of almost 300 billion in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The total expenditure of the E Fund will increase by 86 percent in 2020 compared to 2010. The total expenditure of the Health Insurance Fund will be HUF 2681 billion in 2020, which is HUF 236 billion higher than the revised 2019 estimate. [[19.50]] If you look at medical-preventive care, this is almost one of the most important areas of funding the health care system, because this includes in the health budget the provision of general health care, protective care, rescue, patient transport and the financing of hospitals and clinics. This register will be nearly HUF 154 billion higher than the revised estimate of the 2019 budget, and if you look at how this resource has evolved since 2010, you can say that since 2010, HUF 670 billion has been added to the healing-preventive benefits. As far as health security is concerned: the provisions of HUF 5 billion and HUF 3.5 billion, a target of HUF 122 billion and a system conversion surplus of HUF 40 billion, to which I will discuss further in the future, can mean this security. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight three areas. The first is the question of health care workers, the second is basic care, and the third is the situation of rescue. As I said at the beginning, in order to ensure the functioning of the health care system, the work of our nurses, our doctors, is inevitable. Their work should be recognised, and that is why, after the wage increases in 2012 and 13, a further multi-stage increase was made in the sector from 2016. In the framework of this, doctors received a monthly salary increase of HUF 207 thousand in 2016-17. The shortage of nurses is a problem across Europe, so the increase in wages is also crucial for them: between 2016 and 19 a total of four steps have been completed. The last element of this, 8 percent, is realized in just a few days, from 1 July. And it is also a pleasure that the decision has been made to increase the salary of 80,000 nurses in three stages between 2020 and 22; the wage increase will cover HUF 82 billion. It is worth highlighting the proportions. Perhaps many did not even know how significant this wage increase was, which is to be expected, so it is worth remembering. In January 2020, a 14 percent increase was decided by the government, a further 20 percent in November 2020 and a further 30 percent increase in wages in January 2022. As a result, the workers' wages will increase by 72 percent on average by 2022 compared to 2018. And if we look at the period between 2016 and 22 we see that the workers' wages will increase by almost 2.5 times. The government has already sought to help basic care problems with a number of instruments, and we know very well that strengthening basic supply is a key issue, too, professionally. In 2010 HUF 77 billion was planned for general medical care, but in 2020 it was more than HUF 139 billion, which represents a very significant increase of 79 percent. And this amount does not yet include a special HUF 10 billion budget for the development of basic care for the next year, which also helps the general practitioners. In addition to the basic supply subsidies in the Health Insurance Fund, it is important to mention the Hungarian village programme, because there are significant resources, and we tend to forget that these applications are still in progress in 2019 and today, there is a huge interest on the part of small settlements: medical practice 4 billion, medical equipment 2 billion, medical service apartments 5 billion. So small settlements of less than 5000 people can apply for a total of HUF 11 billion. And this will continue in 2020: for a medical practice there are 4 billion and 2 billion apartments planned so far to support the development of small settlements of less than 5000 people. The assessment of praxis purchase and establishment proposals in terms of basic supply will continue, and we will also ensure that it is covered and that the 2020 budget will also ensure it. And we must not forget the program for health with three generations, which is to support the work of GPs, adult GPs, family doctors and pediatric practice communities. Maintenance municipalities can apply for HUF 5.8 billion to perform more effective public health tasks and prevent them. The third main area I would like to talk about is rescue and emergency care. The revenue of the Rescue Service increases by more than HUF 30 billion compared to the base year 2010. In 2010, the budget figure was HUF 24.5 billion. This, in the draft budget for 2020, increased to HUF 54.5 billion and more than double the support for rescue. The continuous ambulance replacement programme must be highlighted. Between 2008 and 2010 zero numbers of ambulances were purchased. The purchase of 800 ambulances between 2011 and 18 was completed. The 2020 budget will provide additional funding of HUF 236 billion for the purchase of OMSZ ambulances, not only for the purchase of motor vehicles, but also for all the means to save these cars and to carry out the task. A further 10 billion are available for this. With these, the average age of ambulances is expected to be around five years by the end of next year. We must not forget the question of air rescue. The Hungarian government will solve the issue of air rescue on its own initiative, and the 9 new rescue helicopters will arrive by the end of the year, equipped with much higher knowledge compared to the rented rescue helicopters. Next year, the purchase of paramedics' work clothes, the development of IT, and the continuing wage increase of healthcare workers will also affect ambulance nurses. In addition to the rescue, the budget for patient transport will increase next year, with another HUF 500 million after the HUF 2.5 billion transfer at the end of last year. And without the need for completeness, I would like to mention that the cash register of the combined professional care, i.e. the expenditure for clinics and hospitals, is growing by HUF 14 billion compared to this year's amendment; the funding for medicine will be HUF 30 billion and HUF 4 billion more next year than this year; the development of health care services in Budapest and Pest County will continue next year under the programme, and will receive HUF 8 billion more than this year's budget; and the investment reserve will also include HUF 10 billion for other health developments. The budget has HUF 7.9 billion for the tasks related to the national public health strategy, and the development of public health item includes HUF 3.7 billion in surplus. [[20.00]] While we are talking about public health, it should be remembered that when we introduced the public health product tax in 2011, we first thought about creating a source for health care on the revenue side, and, of course, we did this not for our own good, but for the health of people in order to protect them from those harmful substances. Therefore, after the introduction of the neta, it must now be said that in 2020 the highest net revenue will be achieved, which means 77,6 billion, and this will also facilitate the functioning of the health care system. The family support system and health care are closely linked and interlinked. This is important because we started the family-friendly obstetrics, which is also part of the family support system, with a HUF 2 billion grant, and we provide coverage. Fertility management is a HUF 585 million extra envelope and is also part of our family support program. In the premature rescue, which had to be discussed a long time ago, before 2010, because they were able to organize premature rescue only from foundational operations, they can count unfortunately from non-governmental sources with HUF 418 million in additional support. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] And we must not forget the women in charge, who, as part of our family support programmes, are key people whose wages have been raised to the level of the workers' wages, and in the future, their wages will rise as they have just been said. I think we've done a lot for health care in the last nine years. Of course, not everything can be the most appropriate, and we cannot be satisfied with everything, but this budget is a budget for family support and security, and this also creates the ability to provide health care and workers with an improvement and to ensure security for them. I therefore consider this budget to be fully eligible. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-19-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor F Kovács, Fidesz.
u2019-06-19-107	Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, Before I turn to the substantial part of the 2020 budget, I would like to respond to some of my fellow Members. Congressman János Bencsik, as you just said here, has been visualizing the collapse of health care. I would advise him to be open to the world, to travel, first not on a large scale, perhaps from Budapest to Karcagra, 160 kilometers away. You can see a hospital that's in good condition, the workers are doing excellent work, sometimes out of strength. Over the last ten years, the laundry room, the kitchen, the whole heating system, the insulation, the psychiatry building, the care department, new CT equipment has been renovated in the hospital, new operating wing, emergency medical care, and the only hotel wing in Budapest that is child-friendly and parent-friendly in the Heim Pál Children's Hospital was built, which is like a small hotel, like a small pension. Thus, there has been an excellent example of improving health care in recent years. The other thing is that Congressman Ferenc Gyurcsány, who spent a short time here in Parliament, expressed himself and said some things, such as that he lacks the salary of the workers. This is true, it could be increased even more, it could be even higher than the 10 percent increase in real wages per year. But I would have asked him if he had been willing to stay in Parliament, Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, how much he paid his employees, he increased his salary more than the average wage increase. He said that sja should be transformed into a multi-key, since higher incomes should be taxed better. But he didn't say that he didn't take his income out of personal income tax, he took it out of his companies' dividends. He didn't say more about taxing dividends. So it's like drinking wine and preaching water. The other thing that was shocking, Mr László Varju, who used an economic analogy that compared the performance of the Hungarian economy to the price of the potato with peppers, is that potatoes, i.e. potatoes, are now costing a lot, so expensive potatoes are performing badly. Such a representative is likely not only to have no understanding of the budget, but also of the real-market kofa processes, because vegetables once have a higher price when there are few, when they are low. So it was shocking to listen to these metaphors. Isn't it surprising that during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, you're almost there? the Hungarian budget has completely collapsed and the IMF has had to seek aid. That's it in advance. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Honourable Members, First of all, I would like to congratulate the Hungarian Government. I would like to congratulate you, and not primarily on the budget, because drawing up a budget may not be such a difficult thing. It is not difficult to prepare and prepare the budget, but to establish its economic basis, it really requires competence, internship, and it really requires science. This budget is a good budget, and the number of this budget is good because it has a strong economic basis, and this government has created this strong economic basis. This government created the possibility of increasing resources, falling unemployment, rising real wages each year in the budget. Therefore, it is easy for the Ministry to draw up a budget now, since its economic base is stable. And what do we expect from a budget? What can the Hungarian Parliament and Hungary, the people who live here, expect from a budget? Have a solid foundation on which to rely. Look and look into the future that can be trusted. This budget looks to the future, as it pays attention to families, pays attention to the performance of the economy, makes it innovative, makes sure that it is more efficient and keeps it sustainable. He notes that if any trouble can happen, because the economy, the global economy, can turn at any time, the economy is cyclical, and this cyclicality can turn negative, as trade wars, the economic decline of our Western partners and our European partners in the world economy have an impact on us as well. This budget also pays attention to this. He also listens to what happens when there's trouble. He will pay attention when the Hungarian budget is in a difficult position. It's an old recipe that the socialists, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, solved: we got into trouble, ran to the IMF for credit. What's the current government doing? The current government is putting in place an economic protection action plan, in which it pays attention to the fact that the Hungarian economy, when there is a problem, is subject to greater exposure to the Hungarian economy. That's a big advantage of the budget. What is this budget still paying attention to? It also takes care to develop areas that have been adversely affected for decades, since we know that there are more rapidly developing and less developing regions in the country. There is an internal periphery in the country, where we can show less investment, less foreign investment, less new jobs, less economic development. [[20.10]] These internal peripheral parts are the parts from which the youth flows, from which the workers go to larger cities, to more prosperous areas. The government has noticed very well that these regions need to be developed with the program of the Hungarian village. Areas that have been disadvantaged have to be developed. The various regions of Hungary must not be emptied. A very good initiative is the village CSOK. But the government doesn't stop here. There are not only villages, not only very small settlements, but also smaller cities in these regions, which have the same problem. So if the government is doing a study on how these regions in a vacuum, these internal peripherals, could be refilled with life, how these regions could be linked to the development of the economy, I came from such a region, such a constituency, and I would have a concrete proposal. In this region, in this constituency, there is Lake Tisza. Lake Tisza could be an accurate and good example of how to develop the economy. Last year, Lake Tisza was 40 years old. One of the most complex areas in the country is the most complex region. More than 40 years ago, it was created to generate electricity from the small circuit power plant, to provide irrigation water to agricultural areas located in the area of Lake Tisza, the Jassági and Nagykunsági main canals. It is also very important from a flood protection point of view. It's ecologically outstanding. Now he is at the forefront of tourism for the economy. At national level, the number of guest nights is higher every year and is much higher than the national overnight growth average. So in tourism, it can become one of the most important tourist regions in the country. Thanks to the government, last year the Tisza Lake became a priority tourist region together with Hortobágy, Hajduszoboszlo and Debrecen. This process must be continued. I am glad that you are here, Mr Secretary of State from the Ministry of Innovation, because there is an excellent initiative, with the members of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences we have started a programme that fits the Government's vision. [[János Bencsik: Outsourcing research institutes!]] Practical work, practical work. With water, ecological, economic and nature conservation professionals, to create a Tisza Lake programme, to do a scientific work on how to develop this region in 5-10-15-20 years. [[János Bencsik: It must be given to Lőrinc Mészáros!]] I ask the government to support, as far as possible, this research work, to support the development of this region, as we can provide an example of how settlements in the internal periphery and regions in the internal periphery can break out, how they can connect to the very tangible development that exists in many regions of Hungary. So congratulations to the government, congratulations on this budget, but actually congratulations on laying the sound, predictable and forward-looking economic foundations for this budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-19-108	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Kovács. Dear Parliament, The next speaker is Mr Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue.
u2019-06-19-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, If we look at the budget of Fidesz for 2020, we see that the winners of this are the big capital and the wealthy, and the losers are the people and the public services. So this is the budget for austerity. And if we look at what kind of socio-economic model this budget supports, this is the model of climate-killing capitalism. Climate-killing capitalism, which exploits workers and exploits the natural environment, revives the planet from future generations. According to the Dialogue, on the other hand, Hungary needs a budget following green and left-wing principles, a budget that taxes big companies, large capital, billions of dollars and millions of dollars, which saves money on the thefts, urizing, unnecessary and damaging investments of Fidesz, and invests the billions thus saved. It invests in people, invests in social infrastructure and invests in the future. This means that we need to spend a great deal more on education, health, social security, wages, especially women's salaries and greening. The European Union devotes 25 percent of its budget to combating climate change and climate change. In Hungary, this ratio is close to zero percent. While there's a climate crisis. We have ten years to act, ten years to achieve a just transition, a just transition that leads us to a climate-neutral economy. There's also an emergency in the social field. If we look at the numbers of poverty, insecurity, social fragmentation, exclusion and the pathological lack of solidarity that is reflected in the Fidesz budget, not only in its everyday policy, then we can see why the introduction of basic income is a vital issue. The Dialogue also does this amending budget because we believe that everyone has the right to a secure fund, that everyone has the right to a secure income, because that is the only guarantee of human dignity, that really shows social cohesion, that the political community is in solidarity with each other, and that, by the way, is what can stimulate the economy in a forward-looking way. Because today, Fidesz's economic policy is about the pursuit of GDP growth and the skyrocketing of corporate profits. Compared to this, the economy should serve society, the people, the standard of living that appears in everyday life, and in which, despite every great voice, we are increasingly lagging behind the countries of the European Union. By 2020, Romania will already be ahead of Hungary in terms of income, and Bulgaria alone will be one of the EU Member States where income is even lower than in Hungary. This also means that we are one of the two countries of 28 where the real wage level in 2019 is still below the pre-crisis level in 2008. This is the failure of Fidesz's economic policy, and if the Fidesz Members congratulate the government on this, then I congratulate them. The Dialogue believes that green, left-wing values should be achieved, especially when designing the budget, those who are rightfully afraid of the end of the world and those who are afraid of the end of the month. We will put fiscal amendments in the interests of these social groups on the Parliament's table, and I would ask the opposition to do so, and if they come to their senses, then also the support of pro-government colleagues. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-19-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Happy for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2019-06-19-111	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The words of Congressman Bence Tordai brought it out of me to say that it seems that the Dialogue does not include family, childbearing, home creation, because this budget, if something is highlighted in it, if something is important in it, is about family protection, childbearing and home-building. So the zero percent or 0.5 percent party called Dialogue doesn't think it's important, I'm sure there's something more important for them. And I think this is the most important thing for the Hungarian future, so that we Hungarians can stay here in the Carpathian Basin, the more important it is not to have more Hungarian children than to have more Hungarian children. We also agree with my better fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, because he spoke about it in Parliament today. I do not understand this perception of the Dialogue that it is not important to them, but obviously it is important to everyone, the Hungarian children to us. And as liberals, I'm sure they believe in something quite different. [[20.20]] So I think this is very important, and I also thought that I should say that protecting families, helping families, creating homes is the main part of the budget, besides everything else. For example, it is promoted by home-creation programmes, which is facilitated by job creation, which is facilitated by wage increases. So if you look at it very carefully, the budget will clearly carry on the continuation of Hungarian life, from the family to work. So that's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-112	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[Bence Tordai, from the notary's seat, is headed for his seat, and then inserts his card.]] Dear Parliament, Notary Bence of Turdai? [[Bence of Turdai: In theory, yes.]] You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2019-06-19-113	Thank you. I wasn't going to say anything, but my fellow Member seems to be paying particular attention to the conviction of the Dialogue and is concerned that you have failed to convince us of your own good intentions with this budget plan. On the one hand, I assure you that children's well-being is also very important for the Dialogue. Therefore, we do not select from among the children. [[Happy Stephen: Neither do we!]] We say we triple the family allowance. You say high-income children are worth more. You say that those who lose their jobs should also lose their support for children, because that is what tax relief means. You say that anyone who can afford a new house is supported by the state, but those who are about to be evicted will not benefit from housing. The housing aid was liquidated, the debt management service was liquidated. Since 2010, 50,000 families with children have been put on the street. They're taking children away from their parents because, according to your inhumane laws, they can't afford the means to make a living. So, so much for your family-friendly country. So if you really considered the welfare of children to be important, you would not only encourage them to be born, but also to grow up in dignity, under appropriate conditions for their development, but you only care about the children of the upper classes. All children matter to us, and all people matter, and they matter to the same extent, and you make a perverted redistribution that takes away from the poorest in social redistribution what you give to the richest. And by the way, just so you understand, or to be clear, the Dialogue is not a liberal party, but, as I said, three times a green left party. I'm not putting you in another category, I'm not accusing you of social sensitivity, I'm not accusing you of being left-wing. You represent an extreme right-wing economic policy, a neoliberal economic policy, even though you label yourself as a Christian Democrat, in practice that is what this means, and this is proof of the budget that you have just presented to Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-19-114	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. For two minutes I give the floor to Mr. István Happy, Fidesz MEP.
u2019-06-19-115	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I promise you, for the last time, I do not wish to argue with you, but it is certainly a knife opener, Mr Tordai, that you say to us that we do not represent all children and not the poorer children. You don't think the free meals, the free textbooks, they don't get the poorer children? Can the parents of the poorer children who work not benefit from tax relief? [[Bence of Turda: What about those who don't work?]] And the parents of the poorer children, if there are many in one family, say there are three children, do they not receive state aid for the CSOK? By the way, you're wrong. We've just introduced the CHOK loan to the used apartments, by the way. [[János Bencsik, Jobbik: The key word is credit! They're even more indebted!]] In fact, in villages you can buy an apartment, a used apartment, and in the second half, the second of the 5 million. So I have to tell you, either you have to read the law when you come in here and start talking unprepared, or you have to tell the truth. We are socially sensitive. We are a Christian party who considers families to be the first to be sensitive socially, trying to do things for the welfare of families from the poorest to the richest. Because every person in Hungary matters, every person counts for this government. [[János Bencsik, Jobbik: Mostly Lőrinc Mészáros.]] That is precisely why we have taken these measures. I ask you to take this into account, and if you really want to support the Hungarian people, then by voting in favour of this budget, which supports the Hungarian families, the Hungarian people, and the Hungarian development so that Hungarian people can live here in the Carpathian Basin in a thousand years' time, we should be the largest nation here, and the Carpathian Basin should be loud with the Hungarian word. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-19-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate will be adjourned and will continue at 8 a.m. tomorrow morning. Have a good night. Thank you very much for your attention.
