u2019-06-03-0	[[Some of the people in this room stand up and greet the electoral community.]] Welcome, fellow Members. The 17th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be the notary Lajos Szűcs and György Szilágyi. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our day. Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. for questions, then from 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and we finish the Parliament's work with speeches after the agenda. Speaking before the first agenda, MEP László Varju, on behalf of DK, asked for the title of his own hospital for the people of Újpest. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I understand that this government would also replace the Honvéd Hospital with a stadium, but their hostility to hospitals and health is now becoming sick. The renovation of the hospital in Újpest was completed in 2010. You didn't have to build it, you didn't have to renovate it, we did it. All you had to do was let the hospital work, but in 2012, they shut down a newly renovated hospital, the last opportunity for the Újpest people to go to the hospital. If you have an accident in Újpest today, you need rapid care, the next time you will be able to take you to the crowded Honvéd Hospital, the emergency room where there is already a dangerously low capacity due to a lack of doctors and nurses. In recent weeks, it has also occurred that at the end of the week, they were unable to accept an emergency. An adventurous story about the fidesz closure of the Árpád Hospital, without purpose or reason, since they abandoned the building for years. Later, all of a sudden, they lied about turning him into a homeless shelter for sick, old people who are no longer capable of self - care. Then, as the homeless have become enemies, now they're saying it's going to be a worker's hostel. I do not doubt that foreign migrant workers coming to the place of emigrating Hungarians should be accommodated in the fight against immigration, but we cannot be sure that this plan is even true. Not even because, a year ago, even the Fidesz local government ruled against the fact that while the flag carrier of the introduction, who knows that the homeless hostel has become a working hostel over the years, in their lying plans, it may end up being a boarding house, a hotel or something like this in the hands of the fidesz oligarchs. We know from your Minister for Health that 24,000 people die every year because of the fact that they can be saved, but they do not receive proper care. Is it possible that this inhuman cynicism is behind their decision that this number will be smaller if the patients don't get to the hospital? I look at everything in you, but I'm sure it's one of the most serious white collar crimes against our country's people when you're working for a lifetime, but when you're in trouble, when you're most vulnerable, when you need medical attention, there's no doctor, there's no nurse, there's no instrument, there's nothing. Dear Fidesz Members, A third of Újpest's earnings have been in your state's pocket every month for 10 years, and there is no hospital in Újpest. I know you don't have to worry, you get the VIP supply, you don't have to wait for tests, surgeries, nothing, but I'm not speaking for myself here, I'm speaking in the voice of the Újpestians. Újpest people don't have VIP supplies, no privileges, but they don't have any damn hospitals where they'd at least have a chance to get better if they're in trouble. We will not accept that none of our former four hospitals are now present. We're not gonna accept that a newly renovated hospital was taken from us by the government, the Fidesz government. Whatever they're lying about what's in place, we're not gonna accept that we don't have a hospital. We can build a homeless shelter, we can support it, we can build a work hostel, we can support it, but that's not what this is about. You can't leave Újpest without a hospital. You're not allowed to do that. Your local mayor would represent the Újpest people if he finally stood up for them, their hospital, and wouldn't just be doing a private fidesz puppy with you and let the Újpestians down in the hospital case. We need to reopen the hospital, reboot the trauma ward, the intensive care unit, the lab, we need to get health care back to Újpest. We don't want to experience what it's like to be taken to the emergency room of the Honvéd Hospital without a hospital, where they say they can't provide us with capacity. We in Újpest demand that the government decree that turned our hospital into a working hostel be withdrawn. Take back, give back what you took, reopen the Árpád Hospital, organize decent care, because the Újpest people deserve their own hospital! If you can't do this, resign. But before you answer, don't forget, you're not talking about László Varju, the former large-scale worker, the miner, Újpest's Member of Parliament. [[István Szilárd Németh: Csillebérc! Intercoms, clear lines of government parties.]] Újpest with fathers, mothers who care about their children, Újpest grandmothers and grandfathers, the people of Újpest. I'm here for them, and when you respond, don't forget to respond to the Newpestians. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-06-03-2	I give Secretary Bence Rétvári the opportunity to respond.
u2019-06-03-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can't forget that you were one of the active politicians of the Gyurcsány government. You tried to forget about this era, but I think that the people of Újpest remember the time when Hungary was the only country among all OECD countries when you were State Secretary when Ferenc Gyurcsány was Prime Minister, where the number of health expenses per capita decreased. There has not been one of these countries, but Hungary, which you control, was the OECD's statement that there has been a decrease in the number of individual amounts spent on health care, while since 2010 you have been on the opposition side, it has increased in the seventh largest proportion since then. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Will there be a hospital or no hospital?]] In your time, it decreased by itself, and in the Fidesz-KDNP period it increased in the seventh largest proportion. This is also due to the fact, honourable Member, that you have also taken away from health care, in Újpesten and everywhere else, a total of 600 billion forints, you have eliminated 16,000 active beds in Újpesten and across the country. [[László Varju: You closed the hospitals!]] You have just promised new active beds in Újpesten and elsewhere, Congressman. [[László Varju: Which one do you leave?]] a new bed was promised by the politician who was the secretary of state of the government that took 16,000 active beds from the Hungarian people, the Hungarian patients, and, in addition, dismissed 6,000 medical workers. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The child emergency has just closed!]] While you now say that there are few doctors or nurses in the Honvéd Hospital, while you have dismissed 6,000 doctors and nurses, just because your friends, acquaintances and advisors from the IMF or elsewhere have said that these people should be dismissed. Your concern is not real, honourable Member, you are doing what Imre László's fellow Member did a week ago, divided among you, on behalf of each district, you will speak in the next few weeks before the municipal elections. [[László Varju and Zsolt Gréczy intervene.]] and who will tell us what beautiful promises they have in their own district of health care, while they are not open at their own time, honourable Member, but closed. [[László Varju: You closed the hospitals!]] The children's hospital in Swabhegy has been closed, Your Honour, and you did not say that it should be reopened. [[11.10]] The National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute has been closed for no reason. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Open again or what?]] You, honourable Member, did not say as Secretary of State that it should be preserved or reopened. You are the enormously prestigious Szabolcs Street hospital, where some of you have obviously passed from Újpest, I imagine, to be closed. [[László Varju: What about the hospital in Újpest?]] OPNI was also a national institute, it was closed, but you didn't say that you shouldn't close or reopen. You also spoke of mothers. For Mothers [[István Szilárd Németh: Schöpf-Merei!]] In Budapest and not only in Budapest, but throughout Central Hungary, it meant a huge security [[László Varju: What about the hospital in Újpest? Which one are you opening?]] If there were any complications in the birth area, they could go to the Schöpf-Merei Agost Hospital and Mother's Protection Center. They can't leave today. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why don't you open it?]] I had a lot of friends, too, who started giving birth in a hospital, and when there was a complication, they moved her there, and that's why. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Open up!]] [[Zsolt Gréczy: Open up!]] [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why don't you open it?]] I had more acquaintances than I, who started giving birth in a hospital, and when there was a complication, they moved her there, and that's why (Zsolt Gréczy: Open it!) health of more than one child. (Zsolt Gréczy: Open it!) And you, when you were Secretary of State, your political team closed it one at a time. (Zsolt Gréczy: Why don't you open it?) About Újpest care, honourable Member: when you were in government before 2010, first of all, there was a plan to build a manual array. You took this money from there and put it in the construction of subway 4. We know that the biggest corruption case in the history of Hungary and not us, but OLAF is the case of metro 4. [[László Varju: What does this hospital in Újpest have to do with anything?]] And you took the development money for health care for people in Újpest, despite the plans, and put it in their biggest corruption case, which may be the biggest corruption case in Central Europe, too. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Haven't you noticed that the prosecution has terminated the investigation?]] Because the important thing for you then was to pump the public money out of there. You have removed 173 beds in Újpesten, honourable Member. You, who are now speaking of the need for more beds [[László Varju: You shut down the hospital!]] During your administration, they took 55 beds from obstetrics gynecology. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You closed it! You locked him up without a reason!]] You've taken 30 beds from the urology department, you've taken 60 beds from internal medicine, Your Honour. [[László Varju: Fidesz is a hospital closing government!]] And now you stand up here in Parliament. [[László Varju: Hospital closing government!]] And he says we need more active beds there. You took 899 million forints from this hospital through TVK if you look at it on an annual basis. And if we add up by 2010 what was taken from the Újpest patient care [[Zsolt Gréczy: Will there be a hospital in Newpesten? Say it!]] We can see that 3.5 billion forints were withdrawn. That's how they put the hospital on a path to less and less knowledge. [[László Varju: There is no hospital in Newpesten!]] To farm, Your Honour. In contrast, we spent exactly hundreds of millions of forints, half a billion forints in Újpest for the development of a specialist clinic, one-day surgery, IT development. [[László Varju: There is no emergency room even at the Honvéd Hospital!]] I was there on my own, going around with the head of the clinic there, to see what improvements will be made from level to level. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Will there be a hospital in Newpesten or not?]] So while you, honourable Member, have taken 3.5 billion forints [[Zsolt Gréczy: Will there be a hospital in Newpesten?]] classes have been closed by taking active beds and continuously reducing the aid [[László Varju: Will there be a hospital in NewPest?]] On the other hand, we are developing Újpest care [[László Varju and Zsolt Gréczy keep repeating: Will there be a hospital in Newpesten or not?]] We're developing it with day-to-day surgery and a lot of other things. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-03-4	Fellow Members! Secretary of State, the opportunity to speak is over. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Kindergarten! You took it! Zsolt Gréczy: You closed it! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You took it! Zsolt Gréczy: So there won't be. Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio has applied for a pre-meeting speech on the World Environment Day! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speech before today's agenda, on the occasion of World Environment Day, I would like to talk about the environment in Hungary. Although I know that according to Fidesz, climate change is a conspiracy planned by George Soros, it's the only thing that's come down in recent weeks from the right-wing media near Fidesz. He was on News TV when only George Soros was seen in connection with the student climate demonstration. Then the Fidesz M1 talked day and night about how German public life is dominated by environmental protection in order not to have to talk about refugees. And I could tell you the attitude of the Fidesz media on this subject. Minister Gergely Gulyás recently said that being a right-wing journalist in itself is a moral superiority. Based on these, I believe that setting climate change as a conspiracy theory means a pretty serious moral depth. But let's see what the Fidesz government has done to protect the environment. First, he shut down the Ministry of Environment. Instead, two Deputy State Secretarys for the Environment are working within the Agricultural Ministry. The fact is, at present, that the environment in the government has no weight, no government representation and no owner at all. During the last nine years, serious environmental destruction has been achieved in various developments. I have also spoken quite a lot here in this House about the destruction of the Kossuth Square trees, the installation of the City Park, the threat above the Roman coast, or the destruction of the reeds, trees and the green surface around Lake Balaton. Of course, according to the authorities, they were all regular and legal; the script is the same. Currently, Fidesz is the biggest enemy of Hungarian nature, besides Fidesz, the key investment law. If the Fidesz government expects economic and political benefits from some kind of investment, it will destroy nature without heartache. In most cases, the environment cannot be protected because the priority investment process will eliminate the possibility of other actors appearing outside the concrete lobby. But Fidesz does not protect the Hungarian environment abroad, but also the health of Hungarian people. Recently, in Brussels, the interests of German car manufacturers were protected. The government did not support the fact that very profitable car manufacturers, otherwise stuffed with Hungarian taxpayers' money, were forced to produce more environmentally friendly cars. Just to see the significance of this: according to the National Centre for Public Health, air pollution leads to the premature death of 8-10 thousand people in Hungary every year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 8-10 thousand Hungarians. Moreover, Fidesz MEPs did not vote in favour of the EU draft legislation banning disposable plastics. Dear fellow Members, do you know that there is already microplastic in drinking water? In other words, not only is the government propaganda flowing from the faucet, the Hungarian faucet, but also the microplastic. Most of this comes from PET bottles, plastic bags. Do you think that's okay? Why have you not voted in favour of this draft legislation? It is not okay that no wind power plant has been authorised by the government since 2010, which is unprecedented in Europe. Solar panels and heat pumps were subject to penalty taxes. In addition, they lobbyed in Brussels to prevent the EU from providing non-refundable support for the energy efficiency modernisation investment of Hungarian families. Instead, the state spends this money on itself, obviously through good public tenders. We know who wins these public procurements. Meanwhile, the country has been dragged into the highest environmental risk investment in Paks II, which only increases our vulnerability to Russia. That's a pretty pathetic picture. On the other hand, what does the Dialogue program offer? The mass destruction above will be immediately brought to an end, and there will be consequences of destruction. We will appoint a fully-fledged Minister for the Environment, create a separate green ombudsman, for which civil society organisations can nominate, thus ensuring civilian control. Hungarian families will be set up with an energy efficiency modernisation programme, with which they will have less overhead costs and a new apartment. We are launching a Green Hungary with a road map to create 100,000 new green Hungarian jobs, and in Brussels we will always protect the health of Hungarian people and the Hungarian environment against you. Thank you for listening.
u2019-06-03-6	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2019-06-03-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think when you try to tell us such plans, read them, it's a dream and a fairy tale. [[István Szilárd Németh: 6 percent!]] For a few more years. If we're looking at these election results, I'm sure you've got a few more decades to get to that steering column. World Environment Day has been around for more than 40 years, and on 5 June 1972 the UN World Environment Conference entitled "Human and Biosphere" in Stockholm declared this day the International World Environment Day. [[11.20]] World Environment Day aims to raise awareness of the consequences of pollution, to promote co-thinking and joint action, and to spread the idea of sustainable development. Our government objective is to make our country move towards using more rational natural resources. Environmental issues can be a catalyst for this. A key role in achieving these goals is to strengthen an environmentally conscious view and mindset. These include programmes in which the Agricultural Ministry and its background institutions play an active role. Allow me, Member, and allow me to recommend to you a few programmes, which are concerned with conscious environmental education and environmentally conscious maintenance. For example, the Eco-School program. We now have 997 eco-schools in Hungary, of which 429 schools have the title of the eternal eco-school. As a result, more than a quarter of Hungarian students study in eco-schools. Of the 62 vocational schools operating in our wallets, 49 eco-schools and 12 are called the eternal eco-schools. With one exception, all our schools have this qualification. Another program is the Green Kindergarten program. The program is managed and operated by our wallet, and the professional supporter is the portfolio responsible for education. Kindergarten environmental education is of paramount importance, the practice of which is also highly recognised abroad. Currently, 945 green nursery schools are part of the Hungarian green nursery network, of which 160 are the holders of the permanent green nursery qualification title. On the basis of the request and assignment of our wallets, twenty basic kindergartens support the implementation of the program nationwide. In the framework of our next programme, "Save a garden" the agricultural portfolio has been publishing annual programmes for agricultural vocational training institutions maintained by the portfolio, in which school teams take part with the care of a neglected garden, helping elderly people, primary schools, kindergartens and nursing homes to care for their gardens. Under the BISEL programme, groups of students define the quality of watercourses by simple methods, and their ecological status by examining aquatic invertebrates that are visible to the naked eye. The program started in 2001 with the supervision of the environmental protection portfolio in Hungary, and in 2015 it was renewed with the program called the "Bisel gumizsoma nature conservation" program. Our aim is to give the teams involved a better understanding of the life of the watercourses, the interaction between organisms and their environment, and thus become more responsible, committed environmentalists. School garden program, school garden development program. In the autumn of 2018, the Agricultural Ministry, together with the Foundation for School Gardens, the National Agricultural Chamber and the Faculty of the Váci Diocese, established the application system for the establishment of new school gardens, as well as the support and development of existing school gardens. The programme attracted a great deal of interest from public education institutions. As the programme was launched, 50 school gardens were completed and further developed within the framework of the School Garden Fund programme. Dear fellow Member, Can I just say, "Heat smartly"? A programme that has been answered to your questions on numerous occasions in Parliament. Just as important is the programme, the disposal of the remaining food, to draw attention to the fact that as little food as possible is wasted. The conscious education, education and, not least, awareness raising are also included in our programme. So I think it can be concluded that the programmes that we run within the Ministry are in favour of strengthening the awareness of education and the awareness of young people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Antal Csárdi has applied for a pre-meeting speech. We don't have time. We have to act now. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, What's new is that Fidesz sees our environment as an expendable resource. Government parties sacrifice everything for multinational companies, exploit Hungarian workers, keep their wages low and damage the environment irreparably. If you have to choose between clean air or the profits of German car manufacturers, the government will choose the factories. If you have to choose between the wildlife of the Balaton forests or reeds and the real estate investments of Mészáros or Tiborcz, then the government always supports real estate investments. I think it's very talkative. At the same time, even the many greens seen are surprised that Fidesz does not simply sabotage the fight against climate change, but is proud of it. It cannot be interpreted differently that Fidesz propaganda has recently spoken of the fact that climate change is only some kind of fiction, and that civil society and politicians who are involved in climate protection serve backgroundal interests. I think it's a very thin line away from the government propaganda starting to talk about flatland theory and spreading it. I think it is obvious that you are not interested in the scientific consensus that we have ten or twelve years until we come to a turning point from which there is no turning back. You don't care that millions of people around the world are protesting for the same reason: politicians, realize that we don't have any more time, we have to act now! Dear Parliament, The kind of climate change denial that Fidesz represents today is untenable and dangerous. To understand what I'm talking about, let me just say it's dangerous. You remember, don't you? ! I think that's what's really dangerous. I would be interested to know how much more evidence the honourable government representatives need to recognize that climate change is happening, here it is, its effects will reach us all. István Jakab, who is also the president of Magos, is sitting in your benches, and who, after the record drought in the spring and then the record rains in the past, has said, quite rightly, that they all relate to climate change, and that these effects must be prepared permanently. But I would also like to suggest to you that the President of the Republic, who attended a climate summit in Vienna last week, while your propagandaists in various forums explained that climate change is just some sort of imperialist trick. It was also at the same time that Peter Szijjártó once again made it clear that German car manufacturers are more important than environmental protection, and that as long as Fidesz is in power, it will remain so. We may and must have debates about what country, what society we want, this is a natural part of politics. But what you are doing when climate change is denied, and the causes of climate change, instead of eliminating it, are being multiplied, well, my fellow members of the government, you are committing a crime against the Hungarian people and the entire planet in general. We will soon learn about the budget for next year, and then we will get a relatively accurate picture of the priorities for Hungary's future. What you write about environmental and climate protection will be your certificate of being able to do anything other than get rich with this country. We must pay for halting climate change and adapting to existing impacts, we must pay for past sins that we have committed when economic growth is fully subordinated to social and environmental aspects. The price of today's automotive productivity will be paid by our children and grandchildren. And while we are at it, I think that, in recent years, everyone will pay for ever-increasing CO2 emissions, for the green areas that have been eradicated, for the exertion of nuclear and coal energy. Now we are able to take our fate into our own hands, and now we can make the necessary decisions, because we know exactly what we need to do to curb climate change. Today, the only question is whether the pro-government benches will have the right sense to do so, and will eventually believe their own propagandaists that climate change is not real. Unfortunately, in this case, their only defense tool will be the aluminium foil helmet. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-03-10	Thank you, Congressman. I give Mr Péter Cseresnyés the opportunity to answer.
u2019-06-03-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, It is difficult for me to make a statement on the merits of a few sentimental or emotional comments, if I want to follow the style that you did in your speech. But if I wanted to answer in that style, it might be possible to say, as an introductory sentence, that you are committing a huge sin when you try to mislead people with such speeches or such statements, trying to mislead the public, because no fidesz politician has ever said anything about denying climate change. You try to put that in the mouth of others, and you argue with yourselves when you make a statement, you put it in someone else's mouth, and you start arguing with it. I think people aren't buying this, and this is proof of the result that you managed to achieve in the last election. But let's get back to the facts. I would like to list, not for the first time, and I see that it is not the last time in this Parliament some data and some facts that are in favour of the Hungarian Government considering the fight against climate change to be very important, it gives priority to this area, and makes every effort to make maximum use of the instruments in our hands, and to do everything that we have to do in this area. First of all, I would like to point out that in the 2016 Paris Agreement, the 195 countries that committed themselves recorded that they kept the Earth's atmosphere rising below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial level. [[11.30]] In this, the government is committed and has taken countless measures, even though we are aware that it is not up to us, because we are part of a global economy and we are not a big part of this global economy. And the government is also aware that the Carpathian Basin is one of the most sensitive areas, which is why we consider climate protection very, very important. Let's see what we've done to achieve this. I just want to give you a few examples, because five minutes is not enough to do that. The Hungarian greenhouse gas emissions in 2016 are well below the pre-crisis level even though GDP exceeded its pre-crisis economic performance in 2014-2015. This data also proves that we have done a lot in those five to six years, so until 2016, which, at the time of our government, fell on us in this area. The annual Hungarian CO2 emissions per capita were nearly 2 tonnes lower at this time than the EU average of 28 Member States. [[Bence of Turda: Every year he grew...]] Therefore, significant measures had to be taken and measures were taken to maintain this value. In 2013, Hungary set itself a 10 per cent energy saving target and 14.65 per cent renewable energy by 2020, instead of the mandatory 13 per cent. [[Bence of Turda: The lowest in the EU...]] So it also shows that the government takes climate protection seriously. In the draft National Energy and Climate Plan presented in January 2019, our country aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990, and, among other things, as a means of achieving this goal, we consider that solar energy is used for energy production. One of the very important values of this is that the capacity of domestic solar parks will reach 3000 megawatts in the coming years. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] In addition, we decided that the final energy consumption in 2030 should not exceed the energy consumption value in 2005. That means efficiency. Thus, emissions of harmful substances will also be significantly reduced in this case. Of course, in a summary document in the field of climate change strategy in the fight against climate change, we have formulated to reduce the impact of climate change, to protect Hungarian people from the dangers of warming with our instruments and to protect them in the long term. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are doing everything we can to ensure that this is the case. You could also list the examples, but the time for comment is over, so thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-03-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has now applied for a speech before the agenda: the Government is extending the change of population? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-13	Mr President, Dear House, We could have a seemingly boring debate about the economic protection action plan, which contains more important issues, but let's face it, the wider public is not so excited about it. I would add that a partial recognition of the government could, for me, lead to economic recovery, a combined reduction of the burden on labour and even the burden on employment. And in terms of VAT reductions, we should not just go where the government goes in terms of reducing the VAT content of accommodations, but also towards the whole Hungarian construction industry, child-rearing articles and the reduction of VAT on basic food. At the same time, in this action plan, I know I'm going to make it weird, but it's a hairy idea, and that's the construction of business at work. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who's weird, hairy?]] This extension, therefore, is an extension of the action plan aimed at importing the foreign labour force that the government has, unfortunately, been pursuing with enormous success. But speaking of economy, let's start with the little we agree on, and that's what I usually start with, and that's important. We agree that realistic targets must be set. I do not think that Viktor Orbán's promise of 2030 is a realistic objective. It is no coincidence that György Matolcsy made the same promise by 2050 a few days later. I think the settlement of Hungarian wages can only be a realistic alternative within ten years. In line with the Wages Union concept, the slow catching-up of Hungarian wages, the renegotiation of strategic contracts with multi-companies can be the road that makes a clear change in the everyday comfort of Hungarian citizens, in terms of their intention to stay at home, in terms of how well they know and want to build the Hungarian future in Hungary, because we have an obligation to talk about everything else in a third row. I would also like to note that Viktor Orbán's Saudi Arabian campaign and some of his various ministers' speeches, where they wanted to attract working capital to Hungary, with the fact that wages are sufficiently low and the labour code is sufficiently flexible, represent a perfect self-goal for a nation state giving itself, since it is not with the low wage level in Hungary that we need to attract neither capital nor labour, because it ends with a population exchange, a population exchange. What we can see is that more than 600,000 of our countrymen have been forced to leave the country, very many cannot return, or even worse, they do not want to return, and in the meantime they are well over 100,000 people allowed by the Orbán government, legally invited, brought and later relocated guest workers, foreign workers, if you will. And I would also like to say that we agree on one more thing. You say this at the level of words, and I at the level of action: Hungary's prosperity is a question of Hungarian reproduction and its consequences. We do not need to replace our workforce or our resources from a foreign source, but from our own strength. That is why I reject the government's deployment plan, the fact that in its current economic protection package, what has been done and which has been applied for so far by local governments, is that the mass of workers is being raised to foreign workers, who will only appear here at first, but only in the small square will be warned by Cyrillic signs that there are many people here. But, fellow Members, did it not begin this way in Germany at the time of the appearance of Turkish migrant workers? Isn't that what ended up in a social cataclysm decades later? Do you really not realize that? Do you really believe that saving the Hungarian economy is based on importing foreign labour? This is an amazing idea, while more than 600 thousand Hungarian compatriots, for whom you are responsible, are here in Hungary, inactively forced into the villages, the black economy, on the brink of the grey economy, with minimal legal income in hand, and many on unclear roads. These people should be helped to do what they're meant to do in the white economy under completely clean conditions: build this country, build this country. But you leave complete social groups on the side of the road, releasing very valuable masses from Hungary, who would like to thrive here, but not necessarily with a new-built CSOK house, but, where appropriate, with a decent rental program, decent wages, real support for child rearing, not only rhetorically, and compared to this, they import a mass of foreign workers here. The plan is not new, already one of their government decrees in 2017 is embedded in the mass labour import workers' sheltering program. That's what they want to extend now. I therefore call on you not to contribute to the organised population exchange; allow those who are flirting with the idea of emigration to stay at home; and stop imports of labour because Hungary's success cannot depend on foreign resources; we can only succeed on our own strength. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Jobbik, sporadic applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2019-06-03-14	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, for a rejoinder.
u2019-06-03-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say firmly that there is no change of population, no change of population, no resettlement in Hungary. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The more than 100,000 people and the bondholders...]] The title of his speech before the agenda is the planned exchange of population in Hungary, which is an amazing statement. I propose to you [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] to study the concept of population exchange [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: He can't stand it!]] And I also suggest to you that [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Secretary of State, your friend of State Secretary mentioned this concept...]] He will read those books around World War II, and there he will meet the planned and agreed population exchange. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Discuss with your own colleague! It's on the record...]] This is outrageous! You think that the election to the European Parliament, the 6 percent threshold, which may mean that you may not be able to speak here in Parliament in the next election, makes Jobbik think that he will finish his vocal lies, with which he has campaigned, with which he has achieved this result in the elections to the European Parliament. [[Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Minister of State! KSH data! It's not a professional argument who's achieved what in the election! Answer the question.]] Now, let's get to the point. The economic defense action plan, as I understand it, you support it, and you think it's positive. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: I support certain elements, yes. I don't support your lies.]] I'm happy for you. [[11.40]] I would also like to highlight one of them. On the basis of the six-year wage agreement, the social contribution tax will be reduced by two points, with a further two points from 1 July 2019, essentially reducing labour costs. I could list the benefits, all in order to enable businesses to make their development, investments, keep their jobs and expand them. But I would also like to talk about some of the other measures that have been taken so far, which, I think, is outstanding in the country's life. For example, the establishment of a public employment system, which is clearly aimed at transferring workers to the competition sector. It's a successful program, I'd like to back it up with numbers. For example, in the first quarter of 2016, the number of public workers was above 223 thousand, now, in the first quarter of 2019, this number is 102 700, i.e. 100,000 public workers found a job in the open labour market. This is supported by the fact that if we meet with mayors and talk to them, then one of the main problems today is said to be that they are unfortunately unable to carry out their municipal duties with public workers, because their numbers have been reduced and those who have remained there are either few or cannot carry out municipal tasks anymore. But such a decision, such a program, was the transformation of the job protection action, the main point of which was, for example, that we increased the per capita aid intensity, where businesses could benefit from the tax reduction from 2019 to HUF 100,000, but up to a minimum wage of HUF 149 thousand. Under the same programme, the action will then focus on supporting people entering the labour market, which means that for three years the aid will be granted to the employers concerned, in the first two years 100% and in the third year 50% of the social contribution tax will be paid. In the first two years, of course, 100 percent means tax relief. I could list the many, many measures that led to the fact that Hungarian employment figures are outstanding and good at European Union level, but perhaps one of the most important results is that the migration balance has been positive since the third year since 2010, 88 thousand abroad. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] and 100,000 Hungarian citizens born in Hungary returned to Hungary. I think the government's actions are supported by results and numerical results. Unlike your opinion, the Government of Hungary is on the right track and acts in the interests of the Hungarian people. This is what the results show, which is why we want to continue this policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]]
u2019-06-03-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, on behalf of the MSZP, on behalf of the workers. You have the floor.
u2019-06-03-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is something quite facial toaster about the fact that last week, Péter Szijjártó Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade praised Suzuki's activities in Hungary at a Japanese investor lunch, while the same company has been crushing labour and trade union rights in Hungary for months. [[Németh Szilárd István: Done!]] It violates the rights of hardworking people, human and family fates by not complying with the Hungarian employment rules. Everyone remembers the news a few months ago that an employee was fired from Suzuki just because he was the head of a forming interest group, and now the news is that they simply won't let the trade union delegation into the factory to meet their members. The fact that this outrageous situation has been going on for months is not just Suzuki's responsibility. It is in my opinion that the government's responsibility to establish this state and its survival cannot be avoided, since it is up to you to enforce the law. Where's the government, where's Mihály Varga? Ladies and gentlemen, Are you familiar with the right to establish a trade union with the employer? Are you familiar with this right? Do you know that because of your membership of the trade union or your trade union activities, it is prohibited to terminate the employment of the employee? Were you aware that a non-working worker representing a trade union, if the trade union has a member of an employment relationship with the employer, could enter the territory of the employer? You didn't know? However, these sentences are also included in the Code of Labour adopted by the pro-government majority, which refers to this. And did they read anywhere that if you came to Hungary, you would have to comply with our laws? I suppose you've read it, because you've made a poster campaign for ten billion in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, It is the responsibility and duty of the government to enforce the laws. The problem is that you are betraying the Hungarian workers again, because the government has not only promised to the Hungarian workers, but has complied with the slave law, reducing the right to strike, serving the multinationals and the Fidesz elite. In fact, at the expense of the workers, they destroyed the former labour code and accepted one that was acceptable to you and the multinationals. Today, we are saying that an employer can often ignore the rights of people working with him and the laws that guarantee them without consequence. That is why we say that workers must be protected, that is why we stand up to protect workers, and that is why we want strong trade unions. Strong and effective trade unions are needed not for themselves, but because in a truly strong country the trade union can initiate wage negotiations, also negotiate working conditions for workers, and in the event of unsuccessful negotiations, you may be able to initiate a strike in Hungary. A trade union can give workers real protection. The labour authority alone does not protect Hungarian workers from irregular employment, overwork and, as a result, serious accidents at work. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has already given over 80 billion to the multinationals, while they have made Hungarians working in multinationals vulnerable and allowed them to be deprived of their rights and opportunities. Suzuki's example also highlighted the need to change that. Wages need to be raised, taxation needs to be transformed for workers, trade unions and workers' rights are being enforced. In the absence of this, Hungarian professionals are now going to work not only to the West but also to the East for a better living. We, together with the unions, are in favour of vulnerable workers instead of privileged elites. They need not more work, but higher salaries, orderly working conditions and protection. We work for them, and we're gonna do our job for them. I look forward to an answer from a secretary of state on the subject. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-06-03-18	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör to answer.
u2019-06-03-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to reassure you that in Hungary the laws apply to everyone, to all Hungarian companies. [[Dr. Pál Völner: To MSZP too!]] Your statements reminded me spookily of the time when the Code of Work was debated here in the House and outside the House walls; it was also proven that your basic statements were no longer correct, i.e. it proved to be a lie when you mentioned this period. [[László Varju: This is the result of the slave law!]] He had an expression for you, if I recall correctly, then he said that the government had kept to the employees in the past few days. We listen to the lousy socialist speeches on this subject; well, there are many things in these, but there is no credibility. A few weeks ago, you were campaigning that Brussels should be responsible for determining wages, which is what it meant for you to represent those who live on wages. [[László Varju: If you come to Hungary, you must obey our laws!]] So we should get out of our hands on determining wages. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[László Varju: If you come to Hungary, you must obey our laws!]] So we should get out of our hands on determining wages. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) A few days ago, they hosted the Mr Timmermans, who openly campaigned that corporate tax should be increased to 18 percent. (László Varju: If you come to Hungary, you must obey our laws!) [[11.50]] This would virtually take away the possibility and coverage of future wage increases [[László Varju: Sure!]] and, aggravating all this, you will never vote for tax cuts that will increase the margin for Hungarian companies to increase wages further. [[Gergely Harvestó: We really don't support the profits of the multinationals!]] I'm not even talking about that anymore, honourable Member. [[Gergely Harvester: Like Suzuki!]] Honourable Member, I am no longer talking about the fact that it was the left-wing government that had already doubled unemployment and had to come back from 12 per cent to less than 4 per cent. Much remains to be done, but important steps have been taken to ensure that everyone in Hungary who can and wants to work is respected, and that is worth it. More than 800,000 jobs have been created in recent years [[Interventions from DK's ranks: one million in London and Germany! Zsolt Gréczy: 70 percent of pizza runners are Hungarian!]] While the number of public workers is record low. It also shows that the majority of jobs [[László Varju: If we go to Austria, anyone we meet will speak Hungarian!]] was created in the market sphere. Who wonders what wage policy would look like in a left-wing government, what they would do with wages [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] , turn to statistics: between 2002 and 2010, the net minimum wage increased by 1 percent. Under the national government, it grew from HUF 73 500 to HUF 149 000, so it doubled, as did the minimum wage for skilled workers. These are numbers you can't deny. By the way, if you want to support people who live on wages and salaries, you should feel free to support the economic protection action, above all the reduction of the employer's tax by 2 percentage points, which will create room for manoeuvre for future wage increases. Honourable Congressman, I can see that the opposition to election results is being avoided intensively, but I would like to say a few words about it, because the European election is a good sign of what Hungarians support and what they do not, who they support and who they do not. Now we know. [[László Varju: We are against the slave law!]] that the MSZP was tragically involved, and he's in a lot of trouble. This is a clear consequence of the fact that everything that is harmful to the country has been voted in Brussels over the past period. I mean not only migration, but proposals that affect our livelihood. [[László Varju: We did not vote for the slave law!]] It is also very telling that you are sending the man to Brussels who has done everything in his power to ensure that the MSZP has at most one mandate there; the man who not only considered ratting acceptable, but even put a shovel on it. Its reward is a Brussels mandate. That's very typical of you. Honourable Congressman, Every election and every post-election period is a good opportunity to start over. You will have many opportunities to do so, let us say, the forthcoming debate on the budget. We hope that you will make proposals that you are serious about. I remember that a year ago, they demanded an increase in the home care fee, so that when it had to be voted on, they would not vote at all. They didn't vote! [[László Varju intervenes.]] Nor is it a very encouraging sign, honourable Member, that last week's debate involved two feet in the family support system. I'm asking you not to. We can talk about how family support should be extended in the future, but I am asking you not to abolish what is already working. [[Gergely Harvesto: What works? A hundred thousand less children are born!]] Honourable Congressman, In the shadow of Ferenc Gyurcsány, politics on the left will not be easy, but if they side with the Hungarian families, if they really do [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why aren't Hungarian children born? Answer that.]] If they side with the people who live on wages and salaries, they'll see it'll help. We wish you good work. [[Bence of Turdai: He was very weak!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-03-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Bence Rétvári has now applied for a speech before the agenda on the title of National Union and Pope Francis' visit. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Gergely Harvesto: Wow, is there such a shortage of cadres? Bence of Turdai: Big trouble! Gergely Harvesto: He'll answer you!]]
u2019-06-03-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There has been a historical event in the past few days, as much as these opposition representatives, especially DK, have been mocked, since the Holy Father visited Transylvania for the first time, visited Transylvanian Catholics, Transylvanian Hungarians, Transylvanian community, and called them that all along. It's a historical event, like I said. [[Gergely Arató: Only the Prime Minister didn't want to hear it! Bence of Turdai: Where was Orbán? B.L. finals?]] since he has arrived at one of the most sacred places in the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin [[Zsolt Gréczy: Was the Pope in Madrid?]] no matter how much our opposition fellow Members keep yelling at me. For the Hungarians, this is a much greater force of national preservation than any opposition party, even in recent times. [[Depreciation from DK and Dialogue.]] The Holy Father can be laughed at by opposition parties for that reason. [[Gergely Arató: No way, only the Prime Minister! The head of the fake Christian. Zsolt Gréczy: Where was Viktor Orbán?]] because he visits Transylvanian Hungarians [[Bence Tordai: Where was Viktor Orbán? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And there, he's giving them a sermon. It is possible to disturb him with constant shouting, but nevertheless for the Hungarians, I think it was indeed a historic moment that they could pilgrimage with the Holy Father, pray with the Holy Father, and attend a Holy Mass together with the Holy Father. This shows the superstitiousness of this occasion that not only Catholics but Protestants were there, and together they were able to rejoice at this festive occasion. As the Holy Father said in his Homilia, the pilgrimage strengthens the brotherhood even more among those attending. We are walking together on a pilgrimage, symbolically, in our lives, and obviously on this occasion there, in the saddle of Szíksomlyo, in particular, experiencing all the physical difficulties of raining once, and then the sun was shining. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Tell me, was it an 11 in the first minute?]] It can be seen that this national pilgrimage of the Hungarians is of such magnitude that it is visible even from Rome, the Holy See, and the Holy Father, which is why he considered it important to be there. It is important not only in church diplomacy, but also in national politics and faith. I really do not understand why visiting the Pope does not give them the least respect to listen to this, fellow Members. [[Bence of Turdai: Why wasn't Orbán there?]] Since I've been talking about the Pope's pilgrimage, you guys keep yelling at me. It's hard for me to understand why they're doing this. [[Gergely Arató: Why is the Pope not coming to Hungary?]] So many tens of thousands of people set an example for opposition representatives that they were able to go there. [[Bence Tordai: Viktor Orbán could not go there!]] and together with the Catholic head of church in Transylvania [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , and then Hungarian and Szekler anthems...
u2019-06-03-22	Excuse me, Secretary of State, let me really ask the left-wing Members, because I don't think it's good blood if there's this kind of shouting going on right now. It's not good for anyone. Please continue, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-03-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Gergely Harvesto: It grows together what belongs to each other! Intercoms from Fidesz: Are you talking?!]] I'd rather not comment on this right now, Congressman, because of the subject, but I have an opinion on it. It was uplifting to see the Hungarian and Szekler anthem singing together in Transylvania in the presence of the Holy Father. But not only was this an important event at the end of last week, but it is also an important fact that there is no longer a month left left before the new positive developments in the family protection action plan take place on 1 July. Those who shouted here in connection with the visit of the Holy Father to Transylvania were the same people who did not vote in favour of the family protection action plan here in Parliament for these new discounts, mainly those of the DK Members. For us, the child is the first, so every year we expanded the range of family support. Next year's budget and this bill that has already been adopted and will enter into force from 1 July are also about families. We try not only to organize everything around families in the year of families, but also in the subsequent years. It is therefore important that both family planning and home-building measures come into force from 1 July, on the one hand, baby shower support [[Zsolt Gréczy: Only children are not born! That's easy.]] , which represents a HUF 10 million, free-to-use, very preferential loan to Hungarian families, and if they have three children, the state will fully repay the total amount of this loan for them. An important step forward has long been the request for car shopping for seven-person cars, worth up to 2.5 million forints. In the National Association of Large Families, nearly 2,000 have already indicated that they would probably live with it. As of 1 July, the benefit will be that the second child will receive 1 million forints of mortgage loans, 4 million forints for the third child and 1 million forints for the next child instead of the family. Ladies and gentlemen, Tomorrow will also be the day of national solidarity. Although it was probably a day of Hungarian will to live in the saddle in Szíksomlyo, it was also a day of memory, since a hundred years ago a attempt to assassinate Hungary against Hungarians was carried out. The winning Western European states, which at that time wanted to cut up Hungarians and perhaps even eliminate them, are now in worse shape than Hungary's identity, national cohesion or Christian culture. We, on the other hand, look at the power of our nation, we're in better shape than we were a hundred years ago. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And if I look at national cohesion, we're in better shape than many Western European countries that won a hundred years ago. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-03-24	Thank you, Congressman, Secretary of State. He applied for a speech before the next agenda... [[Intercoms, among others: You wish to reply, Secretary of State.]] Excuse me, I'd have moved on already. My apologies. I give Mr. Balázs Orbán the opportunity to rejoinder. [[12.00]]
u2019-06-03-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Officer Congresswoman and Lords! It is an important event for the Hungarians as a whole that Pope Francis visited Szeklerland last week and celebrated on this occasion. As Brother Csaba Böjte put it: the singing of the Hungarian and Székely anthem can clearly be the beginning of a new world in front of Romanian government representatives at the Holy Mass celebrated by Pope Ferenc. We believe that the event was an important step in the process of mutually declaring that we can only build and rebuild our region together on the basis of mutual appreciation. In his speech, the pope also indicated that there were difficulties among the nations living here, there were times of failure, but at the same time in Christendom he called the people living here brothers, and encouraged the Christian majority to join forces and work together. For a long time, the Hungarian Government has consistently expressed this view. The Holy Father put it this way in his speech: those who missed yesterday may be the main characters of tomorrow, but the main characters of today will not be left behind tomorrow. This sentence is also regarded by many as a gesture to the Hungarian national minority, as the Romanian policy of the past decades has used negative discrimination against Hungarians living there in many areas. And besides, we, on the part of the Hungarian Government, have long confessed to the way in which the XX. If we are talking here among ourselves, it was not the century of Hungarians, the 21st century. The century can be again the century of Hungarians, all the conditions are given. The event could also be a certainty to the Holy Father that Christianity is a vital force for us Hungarians today, as we are, so many times in history, today, the ones who preserve the values on which European culture has been able to build. Not least, on Saturday, at the largest place of pilgrimage in Hungary, we could make sure of our unity, the unity that the law on testifying in favour of national integration adopted in 2010 thus states:, all the members and communities of the Hungarian government under the authority of several states are part of the united Hungarian nation, whose union over state boundaries is a reality. It is nine years since we have passed this law, and tomorrow, that is, on 4 June, on the day of national solidarity, we can thank you for this sense of belonging. Over the past nine years, we have taken a number of steps to ensure that cohesion can be experienced beyond the metaphysical level in everyday life. Thanks to the simplification of the establishment of citizenship, more than 1 million Hungarians from abroad have already become or have become part of the united Hungarian nation in public law. We have proven that Hungarians from abroad can count on us, that we have increased the amount of support for foreign Hungarians to an extent, and that the activities of more than five thousand Hungarian institutions and organizations operating abroad have become sustainable. We have launched a kindergarten development program in the Carpathian Basin, in addition to renovating educational institutions and colleges, in which we have built 160 new nurserys and kindergartens. In addition, we are constantly helping Hungarians abroad to find marketable skills in their homeland as entrepreneurs, create homes in their homeland for their families and for themselves. In recent years 460 business development projects have been implemented, 145 equipped workshops, classrooms and specialist classrooms have been created thanks to the support from the motherland. We have also succeeded in telling you proudly that the idea of unity will also become natural in many other areas of life. Also nine years ago, the Unlimited!-program was launched, in which some 300 thousand Hungarian students reached foreign Hungarian territory and gained personal experience about foreign Hungarians, while Hungarians from abroad could also visit their fellow Hungarians from the motherland. In the framework of this, we strengthened, reconnected, extended cross-border twinning relations, and strengthened the bond between the Hungarian communities of some 1,500 Hungarian and foreign settlements. Now, from 2019 we support Hungarian families from abroad, just as we do for Hungarian families in the motherland. We are very pleased that there is currently a cross-party cooperation in this matter in Parliament. We thank all Members of Parliament who are involved in this effort, and we ask you to continue to support the Government's efforts in this regard. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-26	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Böröcz applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We won a record victory with record participation. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] This election gave Fidesz-KDNP a very strong mandate, which obliges us to represent and enforce the will of the Hungarian people both in Brussels and here. Thank you to everyone who has exercised their democratic right and has gone to vote, but in particular thank you for your support for the Fidesz-KDNP list and, through it, for building a Europe based on common and mutual respect. The Hungarians have clearly said that they want to see change in Brussels, they want to see European leaders who do not want to organise, but who want to stop immigration; they want leaders to lead European institutions who respect European nations and who want to protect Christian culture. Hungarians want leaders who will always have the interests of the European people first. The elected MEPs of Hungary must represent the interests of the Hungarian people in Brussels, regardless of party standing, and not the interests of Brussels in Hungary. This is what Hungarian voters expect. There's no reason for it, but let's trust in the possibility of a positive change. European representatives of Fidesz-KDNP have been given a strong mandate and a strong mandate to represent the will of the Hungarian people and Viktor Orbán's seven-point programme to stop immigration in the European Parliament. People have authorized us to fight for the stopping of immigration, for the Europe of nations, for the protection of Christian culture. That's what we're gonna do. Hungary is our first place in Brussels, and we will work with everyone who wants to stop immigration. With the higher than ever European Parliament elections, Hungary has proved that we have a European nation, a European country and a place in Europe. Europe is our country, and we want to protect it, and we want to change it so that every nation, every European citizen, can live proudly and safely on the old continent. It is clear from the result that the Hungarian people disagree with Brussels' pro-immigration policy and that the opposition is standing behind the pro-immigration forces. Fidesz listens to people, and our politicians have a dialogue with voters in and outside the campaigns. We work from this, we represent what the Hungarian people have commissioned us to do. In Balliberal opposition parties, this is somehow the other way around: they usually figure it out or dream what's good for people, even if they disagree. Of course, that doesn't bother them, and if people in the elections bring this to their attention, it's not their fault, it's the voters who don't understand their hidden talents. Hungarians do not ask for the opposition's pro-immigration policy. The campaign also felt that people were dissatisfied with the opposition. The election confirmed the government. The opposition has now received greater support from forces that governed and destroyed the country between 2002 and 2010. Because of them, Fidesz-KDNP was recalled in 2010. It cannot be said enough: Ferenc Gyurcsány and his followers have bankrupted the country even when there was no news of the Great Depression. They were also the first to demand the demolition of the fence protecting the Hungarian border. DK MEPs will remain in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the next European Parliament term. With this, the Gyurcsánys will strengthen their alliance with the pro-immigration forces to serve them in the new European Parliament. Gyurcsány will represent Brussels' imperial aspirations at home, Mrs Gyurcsány will represent Brussels in the EP. [[László Varju: Klára Dobrev! Try to remember.]] Their goal is to push immigrants into Hungary [[László Varju: You know, you have to learn!]] the surrender of Christian culture and national sovereignty in the madness of Balliberal progression and hubris. [[István Szilárd Németh: And Little Red Riding Hood.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Németh Szilárd István: Kádár, Apró, Dögei.]]
u2019-06-03-28	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2019-06-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The results of 26 May are a strong confirmation to the ruling parties, and this will be important in the negotiations on the new EU leaders, in addition to internal policy aspects, on the international stage. [[12.10]] Everyone can be sure that the result achieved by Fidesz-KDNP is visible beyond our borders, and the message is heard far away. It is clear that the governments and leaders who have been under the influence of the liberal network have been systematically attacked by those who have been in open society for years. What has happened is the response of democracy to inaccessible activist groups and politicians who deny reality. As no party family has an absolute majority in the European Parliament, we can expect prolonged negotiations. The Hungarian Government has made it clear in the negotiations and will continue to make it clear that it only supports national candidates for leadership positions, those who count on the protection of Christian values and those who take action against immigration. We are obliged to do so by the outcome of the election. It seems to be decided that the Heads of Government do not automatically consider so-called top candidates to be candidates, so others are also mentioned, and it is also an important circumstance that the Visegrád countries will be united in the negotiations. It also shows that the times when these countries, the Visegrád countries, were just followers and not shapers of the events ended. They are also entitled to do so by their economic results. [[László Varju intervenes.]] In the Visegrád countries, economic growth is higher than the EU average. Dear House, While we need to keep an eye on significant political movements on the European scene, we also want to increase the performance of the Hungarian economy. We must keep our results by showing signs of slowdown in the European economy, which has also been contributed by previous decisions in Brussels. That's why the government decided to promote an economic protection plan. In this context, I say only the most important things, but the list will reduce the employer's tax by another 2 percentage points, which will open the door to further wage increases; small business tax will be reduced; VAT on accommodation services will be reduced to 5 percent, which is important because tourism is one of the drivers of economic growth; 32 billion more will be allocated to research and development, helping the Hungarian industry to produce an increasing added value; Hungarian State Paper Plus will start, which could lead to significant savings for domestic investors, and the programme will also reduce the country's foreign exchange exposure. One more important thing: in small settlements, a tax refund of five million will be possible if someone builds an apartment or renovates a used one or expands it. So the government is fighting on all fronts, foreign and domestic soils to preserve our freedom, our self-determination, our culture, our security, but also to further strengthen the economy, which we hope everyone can feel in their own lives. I know that Parliament is always in the field of heated debates and alternative proposals, but I do say that these are goals that you can agree with on the other side of the horseshoe, if you have learned something from the outcome of the election. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-30	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Mrs Dóra Dúró as an independent representative; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; János Stummer, on behalf of Jobbik. Now, at 12:13 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Brenner Koloman, Jobbik's representative, wants to ask the Minister of Finance how much money is transferred to Hungary every year workers who have no nationality in the European Union? It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor.
u2019-06-03-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As is known, Hungarians who work abroad refer more money each year. According to surveys, the largest amounts are sent home primarily from Germany and Britain by our fellow countrymen who are working there. It is also obvious that the reason for this increase is the unfortunate trend in the fact that wage conditions in Hungary are uncompetitive, and the Fidesz government intends to maintain this with all its might, which is why more and more people need to leave our country for existential reasons. And they do not leave because of an adventure, as you claim, and even according to a recent survey, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are already planning to leave Hungary for political reasons. It is also a regrettable fact that Fidesz is not trying to replace the labour market failure of the Hungarians who have migrated, not by catching up wages and calling back those who live abroad, but by making up for the labour force of Ukraine, which is much cheaper than Hungarians, and which is largely outside the European Union, through the resettlement of migrant workers. It is enough to think of the recently presented economic recovery package, because the most important purpose here is to facilitate the construction of fidesz workers' hostels, so we have no room to move in Sopron. We note the summary data of the surveys on the annual amounts sent home by Hungarians living abroad. However, the real Hungarian economic situation can only be examined objectively, and the real state of economic migration and the labour market in the country could be substantially improved if we could finally get a summary of it, as I have already asked this question in writing, and I have not been given any answer to the extent to which the combined income of workers working in Hungary outside the European Union, primarily Ukrainian, is referred to in an annual breakdown. What has been the increase in the amounts they have sent home in recent years? I would ask that the totals be given in HUF and the rate of growth is expressed by the responding Secretary of State. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-06-03-32	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, for a rejoinder.
u2019-06-03-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I strongly disagree with your words and, contrary to your claim, the government's objective is to fill the employment opportunities offered by the Hungarian labour market primarily with Hungarian citizens. To this end, the unbroken principle of the licensing system for third-country nationals to work in Hungary is that workers from outside the EU are entitled to work in Hungary only if the vacancy cannot be filled with Hungarian or EU citizens. It should be stressed that third-country nationals' work is not unlimited either in time or in terms of job or other conditions. Allow me also to deny that the workers' accommodation programme will serve the job of third-country nationals. The programme will primarily serve Hungarian workers, the unemployed in Hungary and those who are now employed. I would like to say a few words about what the Hungarian Government has done to catch up on wages. Since 2010, the average net wage for families with three children has doubled by 66.4 percent, while the income of non-child families has increased by 66.4 percent. Wage growth is steady, rising by 11 percent in the first three months of this year. The income flows of foreigners working in Hungary can be aggregated and broken down within and outside the Union. On this basis, foreigners working in Hungary allocated HUF 51 billion outside the EU in 2010 and HUF 89 billion in 2018, which is a 74 percent increase. This total represents about 0.2 percent of Hungarian GDP. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-34	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-35	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Last week, May 29th, on the Danube, there was an unfortunate boat crash where one of the ships sank. Allow me to express my condolences to the relatives here in public. I should also like to thank the rescuers for their work, firefighters, disaster control, police, lifeguards and other civil society organisations. [[12.20]] At the same time, I must address questions to the Secretary of State, precisely because of the fact that another such accident will not happen in the near future or never in Hungary. In view of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: how long has it been between the accident and the alarm, and how long has it been between the alarm and the arrival at the scene? And my second question is, when did the first rescue teams arrive at the scene? I'm also asking, how many rescue teams have arrived at the scene? In addition, I would like to know: with what equipment, how many boats did the rescue teams arrive? I'm asking you as the fifth, when was the first time the divers were deployed to rescue? And my sixth question is, why didn't you use aircraft like helicopters to rescue? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-06-03-36	I give Mr Károly Kontra the opportunity to answer.
u2019-06-03-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, After the shock and compassion, it's time for research and investigation. Thank you for the work and support of emergency workers, police officers, ambulances, soldiers, TEKs, water experts and volunteers. The government will give you all the help you need to work with the authorities. On May 29, 2019 the Mermaid passenger ship and the Viking hotel ship crashed on the Danube at 9:05 p.m. As a result of the collision, the Mermaid sank in 7-8 seconds. According to the available data, a total of 35 persons, two Hungarian citizens, as well as 33 South Korean citizens, were present on board the ship. Authorities received the first citizen's report of the crash at 9:15 p.m. At 9:15 p.m., the first cruiser on the water, at the same time as the first citizen's announcement, the first patrolman on the beach arrived at 9:19 p.m., and the first members of the criminal force arrived at the scene at 21:29 p.m. 621 people participated in the rescue, along with the personal presence of the Minister of Interior, the Director-General of Public Security of the Ministry of Interior, the national and Budapest Police Commissioner, the Director General of the Center for Disaster Control and Counter-Terrorism, and the Budapest Director for Disaster Protection. Many voluntary organisations helped the hard work of the public bodies, and I also thank them for their heroic, heroic stand. 7 rescuers were rescued from the water, and 7 more were found dead. The authorities treat 21 people as missing, currently involving 158 police officers, 47 service vehicles, 16 small duty crafts, 2 police helicopters. The Ukrainian-owned boatmaster of the hotel ship has been detained by the police in the event of a fatal mass disaster, endangering water transport, and his arrest has been ordered by the court. In order to carry out the tasks related to the elevation of the sunken hull, Hungary's Minister of Interior appointed the Counter-Terrorism Centre. TEK is currently under management to prepare for lifting the shipwreck. Hungary sympathizes with South Korea, and Hungary cooperates in everything with South Korea. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next thing you know, I'm sorry. László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. What does the government do to restore the legal order of farming? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-39	Dear Secretary of State, For sale in Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Hungary, Due to the lack of an approved budget, the Treasury stopped the annual normative grant of HUF 2.5 billion, and the district lost some HUF 4.8 billion of funding, because it could not sign the contract in the absence of the mayor's budget. The Criminal Code is 376. According to § (1) of the Act, who has been entrusted with the management of foreign assets, and who has suffered a financial disadvantage in breach of his duties, he is committing unfaithful treatment, in my opinion. The body of representatives is entrusted by the law with managing the district's assets, and the municipal law makes it a duty to adopt the annual budget of 25 billion dollars, in violation of which it has caused 7.3 billion in damages, amounting to about one third of the annual budget. So I ask the Secretary of State: what do you intend to do about it in order to restore the legitimate functioning of public finances? Are you prepared to press charges? Thank you.
u2019-06-03-40	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Orbán in return.
u2019-06-03-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In view of the fact that it is a local government matter, the government can ensure the legality of the local government through the legal supervision of local authorities, but here I must say that the suspicion of the body of representatives is understandable, given the fact that several times it has been suggested that the administration of the district or the notary responsible for legality, who, by the way, Mónika Lamperth, former Minister of the Socialist Interior, does not act in accordance with the law. What I can say about your question is that it is up to the local government to determine the budget and to adopt the budget for the body of representatives by 15 March. This was not done for the municipality of Rákospalota-Pestújhely-Újpalota. In accordance with the legislation, a 30-day deadline has been set by the Government Office to remedy the failure. After that, the local government did not comply with its legislative obligation, and consequently the procedure in which the Government Office of Budapest's Capital City initiates the determination of failure at the Kúria is pending. The Curia decides within 90 days of the receipt of the motion and calls on the municipality to comply with the legislative obligation by setting a deadline. If you do not comply, you hereby authorize the head of the Government Office to establish it on behalf of the municipality. So the government office can ensure the legal operation of the municipality. Members of the body of representatives may only support a budget that complies with the legislation and, by the way, the interests of the inhabitants of the district; this is the political part of the matter. To do this, I would just like to ask that the left-wing leader and notary of the district be partners. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question:, How does the International Investment Bank fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-03-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. You signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the President of the International Investment Bank last June about the opening of an office in Budapest. After that, the bank decided to transfer their regional headquarters to Budapest. For some reason, you are very fond of the bank's fate, because in March this year, the government's bill was adopted by the majority of Parliament, according to which the International Investment Bank is fully exempt from the control of the Hungarian authorities and its guests are free to come to the country. The International Investment Bank was founded in 1970, and Hungary was among the founders at the time, but due to the lack of transparency, Hungary left the organization in 2000, so at the time of the first Orbán government's regency. In an interesting way, Hungary's membership was renewed by the second Orbán government in 2014, and immediately after Russia and Bulgaria it became the third largest shareholder of the organization. We have learned from a communication from the Governing Council of the International Investment Bank on 1 March that it has approved the renewed internal normative regulators in relation to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. On this basis, I would ask the Secretary of State to answer the questions. How well are the normative regulators of the International Investment Bank in relation to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in line with the Hungarian and EU regulators in force on these issues? Are there differences between the relevant rules of the Investment Bank and the Hungarian and EU standards? If so, what exactly do these cover? What mandate did the representative of the Government attend the meeting of the Governing Council of the International Investment Bank on 1 March on the agenda for normative regulators in relation to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing? [[12.30]] I urge Mr Secretary of State to answer the questions, as the Ministry of Finance has failed several times. So we're looking forward to hearing from you.
u2019-06-03-44	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2019-06-03-45	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you said, the Board of Directors of the International Investment Bank, at its meeting on 1 March 2019, reviewed and approved the proposal prepared by the management on the updated regulation against money laundering and terrorist financing, fraud and corruption. The new regulation was drawn up on the basis of the latest international standards in this area, in particular the OECD and Financial Action Task Force, and the standards and recommendations of the Banking Supervisory Standards Basel Committee. When applying the rules, the Bank will take into account and respect the objectives and commitments of its Member States such as Hungary against fraud, corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing. In general, the bank is categorically rejecting corruption, fraud, bribery, money laundering and terrorist financing. The Code and the related Code of Conduct set high integrity requirements for the management and staff of the Bank and set out a multi-level set of controls and internal control to comply with them. The bank carefully scans its prospective customers in a manner similar to the relevant domestic requirements. In this context, it shall examine in detail the ownership of the partner, the economic justification of the transactions to be financed, with particular regard to the elements referring to potential tax evasion or avoidance purposes or to corruption risks. The Bank expressly prohibits its partners from following fraudulent practices under the Code. Violation of this will entail countermeasures. Depending on the severity of the situation, it is possible to suspend credit transfers, early repayment of amounts already paid, but even to terminate relations with the bank and to exclude further cooperation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology what measures does the government intend to take to ensure the integrity of the Danube passengers? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Last week there was a tragedy in Hungary that shook not only us Hungarians, but the whole world. The disaster of the Mermaid ship, in addition to being an unfortunate tragedy, highlights the dangers of shipping in Hungary, including Budapest, and the problems of regulation. The spokesperson of the Mermaid operating company believes that although the Danube cruise has been without accident for decades, after a detailed examination of the circumstances of the tragedy on Wednesday, it would be worth considering the safety standards of river shipping, since the regulation has not followed the increased shipping and increased traffic. So here are my questions. Does the government consider it appropriate to tighten the rules of river shipping, hiking, hotel shipping? Will you give support to the capital to renew the outdated fleet of BKK, BKV? What immediate measures will the government take to ensure that last week's disaster does not occur again? Will there be an independent Ministry of Transport in the government that can coordinate these measures more effectively? Be kind and answer the questions asked by Lajos Korózs, because the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior has not answered. Why didn't they use an aircraft? According to our information, this aircraft was capable of doing research in bad weather conditions; and when were divers first used? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-06-03-48	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-06-03-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On behalf of the government, I would also like to express my condolences to the relatives of the victims, but also my thanks to all those who have taken over and took part in the rescue and search work. Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, your question is once again issuing a certificate of opposition's attitude to human dignity. It's not a week before the accident, and the official investigations into the cause have not yet been completed. Such a tragedy can be approached with grace, and in the case of investigations, and in the case of implied claims, the greatest professional caution should be given. Honourable Congressman, Your question makes it clear that you do not have the relevant professional knowledge, or you would know that nine development projects of HUF 13.3 billion have been launched to improve water transport in the Danube since 2014. Among other things, the Danube shipping survey has been completed, there is a free electronic shipping map available to the ships, and the means of navigation have also been fully replaced. In addition, the transport of cabin passenger ships in the Danube was restricted in 2015 and 18, subject to stricter rules by the authority concerned, which, in any case, is constantly monitoring compliance with the provisions in force. If the results of the investigations following the tragedy make it necessary, the authority will, of course, take the necessary steps, but any action taken before the conclusion of the professional evaluation of the case is good for anything other than a spirit of opposition, as you are doing. Why, his last question, the fact that the Budapest BKK fleet is not connected to the accident, highlights it. Since the EP elections, Gergely Karácsony's mayor's dreams have no doubt vanished, but I still ask Mr. Congressman not to try to make a municipal election ammunition out of a tragedy for their party alliance in the procession. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Péter Ágh, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The Government of Hungary considers it one of its main aims to help families. The results of the national family protection consultation showed that a national unit was established on the family issue. The Cabinet continues to give a strong support to childbearing and to help institutions that contribute to the development of children. It is no coincidence that this year there is more than HUF 2000 billion available for family support in the budget. This is twice the amount for 2010. Never before have there been so many sources of home creation, family tax relief, and support for childbearing. In February Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced a seven-point family protection action plan to encourage childbearing. This is the Hungarian response to the migration crisis and not immigration. This action plan is also accompanied by the Hungarian village programme. This government initiative will help young people to ensure an adequate quality of life for their families. The goal is to make Hungary a growing, youthful nation again. We know that we have a lot to do, but it is also clear that Hungarian people cannot count on the opposition, so our results must be protected, as they ensure that we can strengthen Hungarian families. The government's work for families and children can be experienced and seen in Vas County. Many kindergartens have been renewed in my constituency. In recent years, decisions have been made to provide funds for the renovation or development of nursery schools and nursery schools. The renewal of several buildings has already occurred, but the work does not stop, as there is still a task. Dear Secretary of State, Based on the above, I respectfully ask: What results have been achieved with regard to nursery schools and nursery schools in Vas County? What opportunities are available to make these institutional conditions more beautiful in the future for children? Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-52	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-03-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you said, the government's goal is indeed to make Hungary a family-friendly country, and one of the important features of a family-friendly country is its ability to adapt to the needs of families. It does not want to measure the life form or family planning of families to the potential or the immediate will of the government, but it opens up a wider opportunity. This is how we are in the various day care facilities for children. After all, we have extended the possibility of those who want to go back to work with the child as soon as possible, because from the age of six months they can go back to work in addition to the various child-rearing grants, but we have also extended the possibility for those who want to go back to work not as soon as possible, but as soon as possible. This is why we are developing crèches, and in addition to the mandatory kindergarten education introduced from 3 years of age, we have obviously also started to renovate kindergartens and build new kindergarten spaces. [[12.40]] At national level, we published seven calls, the total value of which is more than HUF 111.5 billion, from which we can expand and improve nursery schools and nursery schools. By 2020, 98 new and 462 renovated cradle seats and 3410 kindergarten seats will be created from 3 billion HUF 150 million in the county of Vas. Under another programme, we can also spend 450 million HUF on preschool infrastructure and accommodation development in Vas county, thanks to the fact that you and several politicians in Vas county helped us to help as many settlements as possible locally. For example, if I only look at energy modernisation, we also managed to make such improvements in Acsad, Söptén, Peresnén, Mersevaton, Bérbaltavár, Nyőgéren, Káldon or Gaston. The Fidesz-KDNP government is the guarantee that both in Vas county and nationwide crèches will be expanded, and the kindergartens will be renewed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-03-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why doesn't the government continue to act against abuse in the student labour system? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-55	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Hundreds of thousands of students work on an annual basis, since daily expenses or the payment of tuition fees and housing are a heavy burden for most families. Thus, you can choose between two options: either take out student loans, indebted to yourself for long years, or start working. However, the vulnerable situation of students is often exploited harshly by employers in the lack of legal and other experiences of their youth. Several problems have been reported that school cooperatives only refer to the requested wages very late, for example in the second half of the month, so that some expenses are very difficult or impossible for young people to pay at all. The low level of wage jam is also a problem, but sometimes students are hired black, they have an invalid contract with them, or employers do not comply with the terms of the contract. Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik stands consistently and in the strongest position to ensure safety and decent conditions in the interests of student workers, which is why we have been saying for years that there is an urgent need to tackle these maladministrations. On your part, however, we have not yet seen any substantive measures, since the problems that have existed for years are equally present in the system. It is not enough to address the problems of young workers for political gain, as has been done in the case of Csaba Czeglédy, who exploits student workers. Students demand real solutions to their real problems. It is therefore necessary to tighten checks to eliminate abuse, to provide free legal assistance to student workers and to exclude jobs and school associations that seriously violate the rights of students from the tax and contribution relief scheme. Dear Secretary of State, My question is, after all this, when will they finally listen to young people and start taking into account the interests of student workers as well as those of employees. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-56	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2019-06-03-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The amendment of the law regulated the system of student work, the special characteristics of student cooperative employment. I predict that the Jobbik faction did not vote for this amendment. At the same time, you voted in favour of the amendment that you now consider to be a political gain, when the Czeglédy victims were compensated by the state. What an interesting system! It may have been a political gain for you, too. But back to your question, the experience of labour inspections shows that in the case of employment in the school cooperative, students' exposure to infringements is lower and that their financial security is significantly higher than in the case of direct employment. The financial security of students is served by a government decree which fixes the amount of the minimum service fee at any time, thereby preventing students from being dealt with under the minimum wage. In the context of the labour control of the employment relationship between the school cooperative and the member, the rules on the protection of underage employees are comprehensively monitored by the current control, such as working hours, rest periods, the issue of leave, minimum remuneration and the existence of agreements on personal participation. At the same time, the Authority will examine in general the application of specific labour law rules for juvenile workers in all employers. According to the audit data, the number of inspections involving young workers in the last three years has been only 189. Here I indicate that 68 thousand workers were affected by the audit in 2018. The government's aim is therefore to reduce the number of infringements of young workers to the lowest possible level in the coming period. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-03-58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What does the Government do about pollution? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On World Environment Day, it is important to draw attention to the preservation of our environment, our wildlife, we think; and so we do. Plastic bags, bags, PET bottles, and other waste, unfortunately, are invading our Earth, our lakes, rivers, our streets, our squares, causing serious damage to our environment and our wildlife. The accumulation of plastic waste from PET cylinders in the seas is becoming as serious an environmental crisis as climate change today. By 2050, the oceans will have more plastic by weight than live fish. A decade ago, 300 billion bottles of PET were consumed annually, by 2016 it would be 480 billion, while by 2021 the annual purchase of bottles could reach 583 billion units in a report by Euromonitor International on packaging trends. Then there's the plastic bags. Despite the fact that every year there is a stronger effort to avoid plastic packaging, their quantity does not decrease. Typically, they are single-use, almost for the first time after their use they are placed in the trash. In terms of European data, we see scary numbers. On average, we get 200 bags a year, with 700 million inhabitants of our continent, the annual amount used could be close to 150 billion pieces. Although the problem is global, in order to be able to do something about it, we can act effectively against the negative effects of pollution, and we also need to do a lot here in Hungary. For this reason, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether they are planning to grant state aid or increase the amount of existing aid to remove and remove plastic bags and bags. What steps are being taken in Hungary to reduce the amount of plastic waste, and with what will you support the reduction of plastic waste in Hungary? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-06-03-60	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-06-03-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Judging by your question of government action against plastic packaging waste, it seems that you have not been following developments in recent years. Yes, the 200 plastic bags per head and per year are indeed a very significant quantity of environmental stress, but domestic consumption was the same after 8 years of left-wing governance, after 8 years of environmental degradation, in 2010. Honourable Congressman, Do you know how much this quantity was last year, based on the 2018 environmental product fee returns? I can tell you: instead of 200, 110 pieces, i.e. 45 percent less than the amount of use we have taken over from you by the mandate of the electorate. This progress is due to a number of measures. I would like to highlight the approach to which the innovation portfolio now devotes 7% of waste management resources. Sustainable, responsible production and consumption are also served by the environmental product fee introduced in 2012. As far as plastic bottles are concerned, I would like to point out that the innovation portfolio supported industrial development investments for the exploitation of PET waste by HUF 1.4 billion in the framework of the 2018 industrial development proposal, and financed the collection and exploitation of more than 21 400 tonnes of PET bottles. At the same time, EU directives on this subject are constantly being tightened up. One of these new milestones is the amendment of the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive. [[12.50]] We have already started the task of harmonising the relevant EU directives and further tightening of plastic packaging is expected in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How do they provide health care for migrant workers? It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2019-06-03-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. There are more and more foreign migrant workers in our country. According to Eurostat, Hungary only issued a residence permit to 117 thousand foreigners in 2017. Guest workers temporarily stationed in our country should, of course, also provide health care, but the institutional system, contrary to what you claim, is already struggling. The other day, I spoke to a GP. XI. District, I'm telling you, because of the lack of a GP, he's already forced to maintain a 2,000-dollar practice. About 1,400 people are the kind of practice that a general practitioner can conscientiously and responsibly carry out. The head quota for one patient is therefore starting to decline over 1,400 and is ready to pay for another patient over 2 thousand. Well, our colleague now needs to be provided with hundreds of Serbian and Ukrainian migrant workers under instructions. This is not only a financial loss to him; his main concern is how he can ensure the healing of the Hungarian people he has entrusted to him. 600 thousand Hungarians have gone abroad, but the pressure on health has not decreased at the same time, as doctors and health workers have been significantly overrepresented among those who have passed away. You create hysteria against immigration for dozens of billions, yet you organize mass immigration, which does not endanger our identity and Christian culture, but the remaining functionality of health care, which is already in ruins. How do you wish to change this situation? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-06-03-64	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-03-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are obviously on the opposition side, together with the other parties, talking about immigration and similar issues, especially if Hungarians across the border are involved. After all, we can remember that what you did not want and do not want to give to Hungarians across the border would be given to migrants in Röszke at the first moment. It also shows that for you, the person who follows the laws is no higher than the one who breaks the laws, and they feel no greater responsibility for the Hungarian people than for anyone who arrives here illegally. In addition, when, in the countries of origin of migration, we actually make health improvements with billions of forints, because, let's say, we are sending a shipment of medicine from Hungary to St. Joseph's Hospital, or in the Italian and French hospitals in North Africa, there are instruments and medicines from Hungary to prevent those people from starting, then you stand up and protest loudly why we want to stop migration in the countries of origin with this health aid. And when we talk about Hungary, honourable Member, you forget to say about the general practitioners that, while in 2010, at the end of your government, the average revenue of a practice was HUF 867 thousand, now HUF 1 million 630,000. It's kind of a big difference. And, you know, the difference between migrants and migrant workers is that migrant workers are bound by the law for a fixed period of time until the work is done and they come to cover their own costs, as opposed to migration, which is completely uncontrollable. We can see that it does not lead to an increase in the number of workers in Western Europe, and all its costs must be borne by other citizens. However, in order to further support Hungarian general medical treatment and the Hungarian primary care, we also provide an additional HUF 11 billion for the Hungarian village programme this year, HUF 5 billion for the construction of service apartments, HUF 4 billion for the renovation of medical clinics and HUF 2 billion for the purchase of medical supplies. This is part of the fact that the number of emigration doctors has now shrunk to a fraction, as opposed to the period following your administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: why does the Hungarian government represent the interests of automotive companies instead of the Hungarian people? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Minister for Foreign Affairs said shamefully the other day that the Hungarian Government will not allow the Union to introduce more stringent environmental requirements against new car manufacturers coming to Hungary. The fact is that this shows that the Hungarian government is always politicalising against divided sovereignty, it is willing to share its sovereignty if it has to share its sovereignty with Audi, BMW or Volkswagen. The fact is that these car manufacturers have already received billions of euros from the Hungarian government to pollute the Hungarian environment and to create an economic structure in which Hungarian workers depend on a centre. This is pure neoliberal politics, a policy that the Alliance of Free Democrats, your former ally, would have envied. The fact is that there are currently tens of thousands of people dying in Hungary due to air pollution, these car companies are a tremendous environmental burden in Hungary, and these aftermarkets do nothing to reduce this. We all remember reading in the media about the Volkswagen scandal when they cheated the CO2 emissions data to tax them at a lower tax rate. The fact is that today there is no more important aspect in Hungary and the world than the health of people and environmental aspects, yet this is the last aspect of the government based on the aforementioned flatland theory. You are doing everything in your power to favour multinational companies, and you are doing everything in your power not to deal with the climate crisis and not to worry about the fact that it is already costing people lives in Hungary. Our question is that if Hungary represents the national interest and the health of Hungarian people, when will it veto that these climate-criminal companies receive tax incentives and when will they finally take the side of natural values, the created environment and the Hungarian people against multinational companies. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-03-68	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2019-06-03-69	Thank you very much for the opportunity, Mr President, thank you very much for the question, Member. The problem raises a little bit of a problem, because it did not draw attention to the very simple context that I think we should inevitably mention in such an overview why there is air pollution, let's say, in Budapest. That's because people drive cars. There is air pollution in Budapest, not because these cars are produced in some part, in some proportion in Hungary, but because we live in such a culture, that we use cars. I think that if we start from this, it is important to support the production of the largest possible proportion of cars used in Hungary or used anywhere in the world in general in Hungary, as much as possible to contribute to the performance of the Hungarian economy. So the air pollution problem is not a problem of anyone manufacturing cars in Hungary. However, it is easy to simplify the matter on a green issue, but if we look behind things and our green friends rarely succeed in looking at a problem in its complexity, we see, Mr President, that the Germans, for whom I cannot say a more committed green nation from Europe at the moment, if we look at the drastic measures that have been introduced in recent years to support the green industry, at the end of the day, were not necessarily within Germany, but at a global level. A little slower, because they are unable to see the basic contexts that I think are essential for the intelligent conduct of such a debate. You are characterised by ideological voluntarism when you demand steps that would destroy Hungary's interests in all respects, Hungary's economic competitiveness, while demanding higher wages in a economy where a significant part of these wages are produced by the automotive industry. The Hungarian government continues to consider it one of Hungary's most important competitive advantages, that we live in a green country, that we live in a fundamentally clean country, and that is what it wants to maintain and develop our competitiveness. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff:, Has Russian assistance happened to the creation of a fidesz media empire, the creation of KESMA? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[13.00]]
u2019-06-03-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister or Secretary of State, who will be honoured to answer! Your ally, the leader of the far-right Austrian FPÖ, former Vice Chancellor Heinz-Christian Strache, has fallen for the leak of a video in which Ibiza negotiates with a Russian billionaire, an oligar heir to herself, and discuss nicely how this supposed Russian billionaire would buy a significant proportion of Austrian media for them, and then pay for this Russian oligarchy through greasy public procurements. He also says in this video that this model was Viktor Orbán's model, that he wanted to orbanate the Austrian media and recommend the businessman Heinrich Pecina, who actually prepared it as a stroma in Hungary, bought a significant part of the media products that were still independent at the time for Orbán. It seems that this model would have worked in a very similar way to what was done in Hungary. So the question arises as to how exactly this story happened in Hungary. Has there been Russian assistance in creating a fidesz media empire, when nearly 500 media products landed at the Fidesz Home Foundation, KESMA? Are the words of Lajos Simicska true, and did Viktor Orbán really want my Rosat to despise the RTL Club? Can such a video be found on Fidesz politicians? For example, when Árpád Habony was negotiating in Ibiza, did he or did he not have such partners? And I expect comments from Gergely Gulyás, who said in the case: I hope that there are no leaders among us who commit similar carelessness. We can only understand that the Fidesz have committed a number of similar treasons, but they have been more cautious, so they have not yet been caught. Do you agree with that interpretation, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You have no word to agree with!]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2019-06-03-72	Thank you very much, Mr Bence Tordai, and I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary.
u2019-06-03-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We're past the elections, but on the left, the struggles continue, they have a variety of competitions. One of these is who can make a bigger mistake, and from this point of view, your speech is a local summit. There was a Mr. Pecina's name here. I find your suggestion interesting because if anyone has done business with this man, it was the Hungarian Socialist Party, the party from whom you ask for your mandate. So, if I'm going to come up with your theory, I'm going to follow your logic, and I'm going to tell you that it's worth asking them about the details and whether or not they've made this recording. The situation with regard to the Russians is similar. If you want to find out about Russian matters, I also suggest you visit the party from whom you received your mandate, the Hungarian Socialist Party, and ask them how it could have happened that Russian secret services had access to the Hungarian services. This was also the case, honourable Member, and Russian secret servants disguised as Bulgarian psychologists were allowed into the heart of Hungarian national security during left-wing government. [[Lajos Rig: They were sewn into mutton leather.]] So much for working with the Russians. And while we are here, I would like to clarify one more thing here: I see that you are in pain, that the sunrise times have ended when the Hungarian public was only left-wing publicity. I see that you are concerned that other opinions can appear in Hungarian public life in accordance with their social weight. Unlike you, we regard this as a guarantee of freedom of the press. Thank you for listening. [[Bence of Turdai: The answer to the question? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Nonsense, the word applied to him. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-74	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, Member of the Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister:. How can we describe the Hungarian-Spanish trade and investment relations? It's an address. Congresswoman Maria Kállai has the floor.
u2019-06-03-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In March the news revealed that the Valencian car component manufacturer, the Segura Group, was developing its factory in Szolnok from 4.2 billion forints. Thanks to this efficiency-enhancing, capacity-enhancing investment, another 80 jobs will be created, thus further strengthening the dominant character of the company in the county seat, but I am convinced that it is also in Hungary. The government supports the investment of a company with high added value and state-of-the-art technology standards with a HUF 1 billion. The importance of the announcement is also well characterised by the fact that the Segura Group only maintains production units in Spain, China and Szolnok, as well as the use of equipment produced in the Szolnok factory, among others, by Audi, Mercedes and Jaguar, which set up the engineering centre, thereby increasing the importance of the automotive industry, which now employs more than 174 thousand people, thus taking responsibility for the families of so many people. Each announcement like this confirms what is now clear as day: it was a good decision to abandon the economic policy that led to bankruptcy before 2010 and to choose a new path, an economic policy that is people-centred and which results in economic growth twice as high as the EU average. We are constantly getting news of newer and more investments based on predictable economic policy and the relevant workforce with appropriate training. Dear Secretary of State, How can we describe the Hungarian-Spanish trade and investment relations, of which I am happy to say that our city, Szolnok, is part? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-03-76	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2019-06-03-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Congresswoman, Thank you for asking. Hungarian-Spanish economic and investment relations are not bad, but they could be better. Let me begin by saying this, because we are talking about one of Europe's strongest economies in the case of Spain, and in Hungary we are only the 17th most important investor, even though the competition is sharp, because a number of countries are present with very serious capital in Hungary. Consider that the Germans alone have invested more than 20 billion in Hungary so far. It is not easy to get in first, but the Spanish are working on it, and they are on the right track, as the Spanish capital stock is increasing year after year in our country. An excellent example of this and one of the flagships is the Szolnok company, the F. Segura, which is an important player in the automotive culture and industry that we have just talked about with Congressman Ungár. And here again, I would like to mention the important role that vehicle manufacturing plays in Hungary's economy: nearly a third of our industrial production is the production of vehicles, 700 automotive companies operate in Hungary and employs nearly 200,000 people. Perhaps the most significant figure is that since 2010, we have about doubled and half the emissions of the automotive industry in Hungary. Our exports, which were known to have reached the dream limit of 100 billion euros before last year, are related to car manufacturing. So this is a very important driving sector for Hungary. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that from the direction of traditional car manufacturing, we are moving towards electric car production at an increasing pace. Here, perhaps, the change of culture that I have indicated is relevant, that as many Hungarian car manufacturers as possible should be present here in Hungary, and that is our task, primarily the task of politics, is to increase production based on renewable energy and green energy within this structure. In this case, we are in good shape, and we are also counting on Spanish companies who continue to welcome us in any industry in Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-03-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Dear Parliament, I myself have been watching the course of the meeting from the television screen, and this is not the first reference, a question about the painful Danube shipragedia, and together with Mr Lajos Kepli, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to express our condolences to the victims and family members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. [[13.10]]
u2019-06-03-79	Thank you very much, Mr President, and also for the gesture. I would, of course, like to express my condolences on behalf of the Jobbik faction to the relatives of the people who died in the boat accident last week. Tragedy has caused a terrible wound in the lives of many families, and we share their pain. As is known, during the last week, Wednesday, during the passage under the Margaret Bridge, a hotel ship pulled under a tourist ship with a total of 35 crew members on board. Only seven people survived the tragedy, seven bodies were found that day, and the other 21 are currently reported missing. The accident raises a number of questions that need to be considered by experts, but we cannot go beyond looking at the issue on the side of shipping regulation. During the course of the year, there is huge water traffic in the Danube in Budapest, the Margaret Bridge and the neighbourhood of Parliament are among the busiest sections. In recent years, the small BKK ships, besides the sightseeing tourist ships, have increased in mushroom mode. The latter are practically floating hotels, occasionally with hundreds of people on board. Their presence has a significant impact not only on the Danube, but also on the traffic of the quays through the ports, these ports cause a lot of problems in the Danube capital section. There is no doubt that tourism is one of the most important sources of income in the capital, but these water objects not only contribute to pollution of the Danube, but they also often cover the monument view, spoil it, and the risk of accidents must be pronounced after last week's disaster. We must do everything we can to minimise the risk to protect the life and physical integrity of the people living and visiting here. My question to Mr Secretary of State is whether the Government intends to introduce regulation in the Danube capital section to halt ship traffic. Is there a need to designate so-called separation zones on the flight routes? Is a review of the number and location of ports justified? Are there any plans to move hotel ports from downtown to external river sections? Since this also concerns shipping legislation, I am asking what is the government's position on this and how they intend to prevent similar tragedies from occurring. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-80	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-06-03-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In line with my previous response to this issue, I would also like to express my condolences to the family members and relatives of the victims. There was indeed a terrible tragedy on 29 May, the Hungarian and South Korean victims and the relatives of the victims are all thought with compassion and compassion. Honourable Congressman, Let me draw your attention to the fact that, in your question, you are demanding that the existing shipping regulations be reviewed and tightened before any expert investigations have been carried out to identify the cause and the causes of the tragedy. I suggest we wait for the experts to do their job and draw their conclusions first. Otherwise, if you were to follow the Danube shipping framework and developments, you would know that this ongoing review mechanism has been in place for years. To give just one example, which has already been mentioned today, the second time since 2018, the regulations on the traffic limitations of passenger ships over 80 metres have been tightened as a result of negotiations and consultations with the Association of Passenger Shippers, the Danube Water Police Police Police Department, the Budapest Government Office and the Navinfo Dispatch Service. Similar responsible regulations apply, inter alia, to the transport of large ships or to the establishment and operation of ports. In response to the interruption of ship traffic, the current regulation provides a sufficient framework, according to a multitude of experts. However, in response to your question, it must, of course, be said that if it really becomes necessary in the light of the investigations carried out, there is no doubt that regulation will be further refined and tightened up. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When will the government appreciate the foster parents? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2019-06-03-83	[[He shall begin his speech without sound.]] Mr President, Dear House, Being a foster parent should be a voluntary task that deserves serious recognition. The foster parents provide a family, a home for children who have not had it. According to the 2017 data of the KSH, only 14,000 children receiving special care for children are still receiving foster care. [[They're putting a hand mike in front of the speaker.]] Thank you very much, so there will be more than 7,000 children's homes, which, however committed they are, cannot provide a level of care or provide as much as a family. Thus, much fewer people undertake to be foster parents than they need to be, and this is because of inadequate material care and financial expense. The salary of foster parents is 30% of the minimum wage at any time, plus an additional 20 percent fee, but for example, they cannot take advantage of children, and they cannot take advantage of many other important benefits that support child rearing. The government is trying to promote the stepparent profession by boat trip to Duna, which is actually no problem, and the right thing is that the government thinks this is important, but it is even more important that foster parents receive adequate care and adequate financial security for this difficult task. I think that this is an objective in which the government and the opposition can agree with each other that it is better for these children to go to foster care. That's why I'm asking you when you want to increase your foster care, when you want to create a better situation for foster parents. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-06-03-84	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Attila Philip, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-03-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We fully agree on one thing: I think that the work of foster parents really has a nation-building responsibility to help and protect every family in distress. The genre to report in two minutes on the measures taken over the past period is quite limited, so allow me, Congressman, to highlight only the most important ones. First of all, I would like to remind you that one of the most important changes, namely the introduction of the foster child you missed, was formulated by the Hungarian Government in the bill made to Parliament on 12 December 2018, when the institution of the foster child was introduced. You and your party were present at this time in the Chamber of Parliament, but they did not vote for these measures, so they considered it more important to whistle and honk, so allow me to nuance first the concern and concern raised or read on the issue towards foster parents. The most important measures: in recent years the capacity and surface of the foster family has increased, more than HUF 20 billion was available to the foster family networks in 2018 and this year there is even more than HUF 850 million available. In 2010, there were 57 percent foster parents, today 66 percent in the child protection system. This also shows that this ratio has increased in recent years. In January 2014, this government introduced the employment relationship of a foster parent, precisely for the moral and financial respect you lacked. This means that health and pension insurance is also linked to this, there is also a possibility to benefit from family tax and contributions. This government has passed legislation that families should be placed in a foster home in 12 years, not in an institution, but in a foster family as far as possible. [[Gergely Arató: This is an EU regulation, Mr Secretary of State.]] and for the fourth time, this government has launched the "Acceptance" parenting program [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's exactly what you're aware of. Thank you for the Member's interest in the foster parenting programme. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister, who does the government agree with: István Tarlós or the Fidesz faction? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. [[13.20]]
u2019-06-03-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to the work of an investigative journalist, the abuse of parking operations has been discovered in some districts of Budapest. Dániel Ács, a journalist of 444, led to the result that virtually every Budapester today knows the method and technique to make money disappear from the parking operation in Budapest. To this, I think we should find a solution, and there is a solution. As you know, István Tarlós, the mayor of Fidesz, supported by you, has repeatedly expressed his view that the solution to the sale of the Budapest parking mafia is to take the parking operation out of the hands of the districts as a mandatory task and give it to the capital's exclusive authority. I think that such a change of operations could at the same time ensure much more transparency, reduce costs, and even render the operation of the Mafia impossible. We waited a while, but the LMP won't wait any longer, and the bill has been submitted in order to deal with the capital city's toxic parking mafia as soon as possible. However, the bill was voted off last week by the Fidesz majority of the Justice Committee. They disagree with the mayor of your party. In addition, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself said that he cannot guarantee the restoration of the parking system. It is difficult to interpret this in a different way than the fact that decades of political and economic interests would be broken in order, in which even the Prime Minister of the country would break his knife. Dear Minister, The question is simple: who do you agree with in the government, the Fidesz parliamentary majority, who voted off the bill, or István Tarlós? Thank you very much for your reply.
u2019-06-03-88	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Orbán.
u2019-06-03-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin with the remark that the rabbit shouldn't be carrying the shotgun. So parking in Zugló is the only one of the districts in Budapest who loses money [[Péter Ungár: That is not true! Antal Csárdi: District X, IX. Circuit! How long do you want me to tell you?]] It's the only problem. People pay the parking fees, and instead of making improvements, they still get paid by the Zuglós. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. In the district, for example, the district gains some HUF 500 million each year from paying parking, but Zugló lost nearly 800 million. In Zugló, the specific maintenance cost of parking hours is 134 times higher than in the I. district. [[Péter Ungár: That's not what you asked!]] The maintenance fee in the I. district is 500 HUF [[Antal Csárdi: It is your legal duty to answer the question!]] In Zuglo, 67,000 forints per meter. My primary conclusion is that mayor Gergely Christmas is not fit to run the district. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Plus, he created this mess himself. He announced on live TV that XIV would be the case. district parking contract is the result of a dark deal. According to his own statement, he knew that, but he signed the contract without saying a word. [[János Bencsik's intervention.]] Later, he denied the facts. [[Antal Csárdi: Fidesz MEPs voted in favour of this treaty!]] and claimed that the parking system was profitable. And now he's gonna have those contracts examined by the people who made them. And it's just a blur on the cake that Gergely Christmas, as you do, would bring the capital here, while the City Council doesn't own a single parking company at the moment. This is the task and competence [[Péter Ungár: That's the problem! Antal Csárdi: That's the problem! That's why we need to reschedule. It'd be a little more transparent.]] He's with the district councils. From the government's side, all we can do in this case is that a legitimate statement has been made to the Metropolitan Government Office against the decision of the body of representatives. The protocol has arrived at the Government Office of Budapest Capital and the investigation has begun. I think the important question is not what you have asked, but that during the autumn municipal elections, voters in Budapest vote to continue the development path so far, or that the inadequate leader involved in parking Panama is intended to lead the Budapest capital. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-03-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister a question: It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister on behalf of Mr Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Government politicians and tellers regularly tease our nerves by getting a flat in the Buda Castle for a fraction of the market price, near the Prime Minister's court, while the runaway property prices force hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians to experience that they can't even get their own apartment in the outskirts of the capital, even with parental help. You, my honourable pro-government colleagues, are handing out 100 million-dollar refurbished properties to various Fidesz companies and stooges as if there were no tomorrow. This is how Zsolt Bayer, the proud owner of Fidesz' 5th party book, Minister László Palkovics, Zsolt Semjén and János Lázár's fellow hunters, Archduches of Habsburg and many others came to the apartment at a potom price. According to the latest news, Valton-Master Car Kft. has reached an apartment of 85 square meters. also, which, after the famous helicopter ride, brought and carried the Rogán-marriage party. For five years, the company can rent a property for 101,000 forints in an area where half the rent of a property costs half a million forints a month, at least that's where it starts. In addition, the Budavár Municipality spent some 210 million forints on renovating this. When will they spend, my fellow members of the Government, so much money to improve the housing conditions of ordinary Hungarians? Dear Secretary of State, I ask you whether you consider it a facial toaster that, while hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians leave this country, because they have no chance of getting a decent living and getting a decent price for housing, you provide their own yardkeeping for ridiculous prices. I would like to ask you when you will finally provide substantial assistance not only to families with three children, but also to those who cannot take on the first child without their own home. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-03-92	Thank you, Congressman. I call on the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, to respond.
u2019-06-03-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years, we have spent 304 billion forints on providing support to those who have been asked for support here, which has already led to the decision of 102 thousand families to require this support. This is a form, you know, honourable Member, which has not been in Hungary's recent history, with which families with young families, who have children or who want children, can receive support to a level that is not always the case in other countries of Europe. There was a smaller form of support in Hungary during the Socpol period. This has been completely discontinued in Hungary by your allies, the socialists, and therefore you have made an alliance with them and are running for elections together. It was the result of the last Sunday, the European Parliament elections. On the other hand, we have introduced a home-building discount for families. In general, you have not supported, nor have you supported, budgets that cover this. In fact, from 1 July we will extend this possibility, which was also not supported by the opposition's leading party, the Gyurcsány Party, the Democratic Coalition. We were able to help 250,000 children grow up under more dignified, more comfortable conditions. In total, we were able to help 437 thousand people housing out of this 304 billion forints. There are about 49 thousand children to whom you have referred, honourable Member, whose commitment parents will also take into account whether they will have a new home or not, and 49 thousand children have been given birth by these families if they receive this support. They have received this support. So we trust that we have been able to make decisions about many tens of thousands of children, although obviously the main aspect is always emotional, but we have been able to contribute. From 1 July onwards, loans for housing purposes or preferential loans can be used for the purchase of apartments already used under certain conditions. One million forints will be released from mortgage loans for the second child, four million forints for the third child, and 1 million forints for the other children. We are also trying to help Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-03-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. After the losing lawsuit in the United States, when will Glyphosate be banned in Hungary? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. [[13.30]]
u2019-06-03-95	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The fact is that I do not believe that the Agricultural Ministry has to tell us what the history of DDT insecticides shows about what happens when we allow profit-driven chemical companies to write Hungarian laws and what they can use in Hungary. According to the World Health Organization, Glyphosate is one of the most commonly used herbicides in Hungary, and I look forward to waiting patiently for this organism to be one of the government's enemies for people to be carcinogenic. About 45 percent of European soils are currently infected with this product, but the government is doing nothing to ensure that Monsanto, a large agricultural and polluting company that manufactures this product, does not bring this carcinogen into Hungary. The fact is that in 2015 there were 1,400 tonnes of Glyphosate imported into Hungary, a huge number. This is a tremendous environmental and human health burden. Currently, more than ten lawsuits have been won in the United States by people who have sued the Monsanto and its subsidiaries for cancer that brought Glyphosate in and used it for agricultural purposes in the United States. Nevertheless, the government is still among those countries in the European Union that oppose the EU ban on Glyphosate; those who oppose the EU ban on Glyphosate because they know exactly what interest this multinational company has. We know about this government that they have already allowed a tobacco company to write various trade laws through the laptop of János Lázár. In the same way, we know that at the Agricultural Ministry, Monsanto, a manufacturer of carcinogenic Glyphosate, is preparing to write the Hungarian chemical law. My question is, when are you gonna ban this dangerous drug? When will you finally show the Hungarian virtuosity you have said so much about this multinational company? And when are we gonna ban this polluting foreign multinational because it's dangerous? Thank you very much.
u2019-06-03-96	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2019-06-03-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The placing on the market of plant protection products is governed by a Union Regulation which is directly applicable in the Member States of the European Union. This world-wide strict regulation ensures that only preparations with active substances approved at EU level can be placed on the market. The authorisations of active substances used in plant protection products should be reviewed at regular intervals in accordance with Union legislation. The most recent re-evaluation of the Glyphosate active substance and the decision reached at the end of 2017. The European Commission has found no evidence that Glyphosate has carcinogenic properties or would cause other chronic health damage. The upcoming re-evaluation, in which Hungary also plays an active role, will start from the end of 2019. In addition to the re-evaluation of existing data in accordance with the requirements of today's age, scientific articles and information published in recent years have also been taken into account. Based on the results of the re-evaluation report, decisions were taken as to whether Glyphosate would continue to meet the conditions for authorisation set out in the EU plant protection products Regulation. The decision shall be taken no later than December 2022 when the current authorisation for Glyphosate expires. In addition, Glyphosate is currently the active substance of the only authorised total herbicide plant protection product in Hungary. The Agricultural Ministry will do everything in its power to ensure that food chain safety aspects are respected when authorising plant protection products, while ensuring the protection of consumers, the environment and the safety of nature. And the news you read and read in the various press products [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I don't think they're even at the level of rumors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-03-98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior: Why is there no order, why is there no effective crime prevention, why is there no hard retaliation? It's an address. Mr Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2019-06-03-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A number of weeks have passed, but from time to time, shocking brutality reports of unreasonably violent acts of walking, aging jackals in human skin. The other day, in his home in Hajdúhadháza, an elderly man was beaten to death for 6,000 forints of prey and some candy, and his family's role models were prisoners, his pets were pit bulls, and they knew the world of zombie drugs very early, but nothing else. Those who commit horrific crimes at the moral level of the Stone Age show no human character, for they regard their fellow humans only as prey animals, just like real jackals, because their victims are usually of the old, lonely, defenseless ones who cannot stand for themselves. In many settlements, the state power, which frightens migrants, which promises protection for Hungarian society, but which is leaving the country's ever-larger territories, has abandoned its feared, law-abiding citizens. The underpaid small police officers who are mistreated are disemboweling the department, and the prosecutor's office often excuses criminals. On the other hand, Jobbik will never be satisfied that the undomestical herders will own the country, and we believe that the perpetrators should be slaved as a yokeless bastard in order to repay society for all the damage they have done to it. I ask why they allow social parasite, criminalized destroyers to become hostages to many settlements. We think it's because they're playing a mean game, they know it's a legitimate counter-effect, but Fidesz will be able to position itself in the central force again. And what happens to the area terrorized by sociopaths behind the walls of protected residential parks is no longer of interest to you, but I would still like to hear the explanation. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-03-100	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask the Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to answer.
u2019-06-03-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the one hand, I reject the words of the de-honestist of the Hungarian police [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And I refuse those words, too. which you refer to the state of public security in Hungary. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The Hajdúhadházi...]] I understand that you, your party, are starting a battle with a party to your right, and you're going to try it in rhetoric. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: You know this is not a professional argument!]] Take back the field. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But the election results have shown us very little of you. Honourable Congressman, Obviously, law enforcement is the job of the police, and I think it's perfectly natural for the police in every country to do their best. This is the case in Hungary, and the effectiveness of the police has improved significantly in recent years. It may be a philosophical question as to whether crime in a society can be fully reduced, but obviously this is not a question to be discussed in a Parliamentary speech. All I know is that in this crime you mentioned, the unsubs were caught, the police were doing their job, and liability is a matter for the court. But I would tell you that there were 145 crimes in the city of Hajdúhadház in 2018. It's the lowest number in the last ten years. I can tell you that while in 2010, there were 228 public crimes in Hajdúhadház, in 2018, 56. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Infraction...]] I can tell you that in 2018, there were 14 high-level crimes, while in 2010 there were 578, and in all cases the effectiveness of the police increased significantly. And that's part of it. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, among them: Time!]] the report of the Hajdúhadháza police department has been accepted by the municipality, so everything you're saying about Hajdúhadház is everything you're saying about Hajdúhadház. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It insults its citizens, it's a lie in the eye, and it would be good to keep it on the ground of reality. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-03-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. The government has given up the protection of the soil? Can the foreigner take it? " The title is given below. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2019-06-03-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Following the judgment of the European Court of Justice, it became clear that Fidesz's earth traffic law is unable to protect the Hungarian land, in any event, in order for it to fall into the hands of foreigners, since it annulled this law. [[13.40]] Those who are familiar with or receptive to this subject must not have been surprised by this story; we, Jobbikos, in 2013, when the law was adopted, made it clear that this law would not be able to play the role of protection of the earth. Perhaps you remember, Secretary of State, then we didn't want it to be accepted so much that even the presidential pulpit was taken over by the Jobbik faction. I can say without exaggeration that the situation is dramatic, because you can imagine a situation where now domestic farmers have to compete not only with your oligarchs on the land market, and not only with large companies or their large-scale neighbours, but also with foreign companies. After all, this decision can result in the fact that if someone in Europe shows up with any capital in the world and establishes a company, they can appear on the domestic land market as a competitor of Hungarian farmers. I don't have to describe in detail what a dramatic and inconvenient competition this will lead to. However, I would very much like to know what the government's response to this situation is, whether they have regretted having pushed our country to the European Union in such a way that they stuffed the agricultural land under the capital chapter, and have practically dated this sad state in advance. Do you finally acknowledge that the entire state-owned land privatisation was all about knowing very well that this situation was going to come up, and that it was in good time that the state lands were being delivered to their own pals, so that they could sell the Hungarian land to foreigners at a price of 3-4-5 times? Now you can admit that that's what this game was about, but beyond this confession and the apology, I'd like to look forward to some vision of what you're planning to do to remedy the situation. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-104	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2019-06-03-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The constant and powerful attack by the EU on the Hungarian land regulation shows that the Hungarian land and our legislation for the protection of Hungarian farmers effectively achieve their goals. However, it is not clear to me what you are basing your question on. The European Court of Justice has delivered a judgment on land matters, but this concerns only one element of domestic land law, namely: this is not the law on land transport referred to by you, but the 2013 Act on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land CXXII. Law on certain provisions and transitional arrangements relating to the law, and only one provision thereof; this little thing must have escaped your attention when you read the news. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the judgment of the European Court of Justice has not yet been formally delivered, so far only one press release has been published, and after the official transmission of the judgment, the Hungarian Government will act in the same way as it has done in order to protect the Hungarian land, the Hungarian farmers. The Court's judgment also shows that breaking the protection given by the Hungarian land legislation will make a significant effort to lobby the Member States of the European Union seeking land in Hungary. You mentioned the land to the farmers! The failure of the program. For us, it was a reassuringly successful program, with 30,000 farmers having a very serious land ownership and livelihood. In view of this, I must strongly reject the statements made by farmers as speculators on behalf of the farmers concerned who are not present here and are thus unable to defend themselves. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the next item, immediate questions. Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2019-06-03-107	Thank you very much, I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2019-06-03-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask Mr Szilágyi whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2019-06-03-109	Mr President, I will wait for Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to enter Parliament between two private flights. Thank you. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Oh, how witty you were!]]
u2019-06-03-110	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Brenner Koloman, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How long will the anti-scientific tragedy take? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Brenner Koloman.
u2019-06-03-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, Like the pin I've been wearing, I'm telling you. I was there yesterday with thousands of citizens who were concerned about the future of Hungarian science and the future of Hungarian science at a demonstration about which your lackey media said about foreign paid agents doing the festival I am trying to say relatively accurately. In this crowd, however, I have only met people like the former Fidesz Minister of Education, Pálinkás colleague, two of my assistant dean colleagues from ELTE, and we have also noted somewhat poorly that we could reconvene the Education Committee meeting, and I could still list the people who raised their voice against the reverse Széchenyi yesterday. After all, I graduated from Széchenyi High School in Sopron, and I remember that Nagycen wasn't built at the time of football stadium and football academy, but the Count founded a Academy of Sciences in Pest, which you now shamelessly want to destroy. I would also like to point out that the stakes are extremely high, since the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and of the Council are very high. In the first century, a country without elites... and we are on the right path to an eliteless country, since everyone of these five thousand teachers and researchers is fleeing from this country, where there is no future for scientific research. Do you imagine such an elite and anti-knowledge society as Hungary's future, Minister? Do you really take this responsibility against international partners and then go and tell them that this transformation is going to be modelled by the Max Planck Institute? How long will this anti-science tragedy last, and how long will the future of Hungary and Hungarian science be put at risk? I look forward to your reply.
u2019-06-03-112	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2019-06-03-113	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, He mentioned who he had met at the protest yesterday; he could have met the opposition's new leader Ferenc Gyurcsány, because he was there, for some reason he had left him out of the list of sympathizers who were protesting with you yesterday. [[Bence Tordai and Agnes Kunhalmi intervene.]] But that is not the biggest problem, and it is not even one of the biggest problems, that today the Ferenc Gyurcsány protests for the Academy, who had much more radical plans to reform the Academy, which would have really affected the Academy's freedom. Article X (3) of the Fundamental Law clearly ensures the independence of the Academy of Sciences, this is not what the debate is about, the debate is about the research network, even the Academy has made criticisms of the operation of the research network, but the OECD has also formulated various criticisms and even the European Commission has made various criticisms. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] We believe that in order to be effective in research and development, more resources are needed and research networks must operate in a different way. This does not mean that there are no research institutions, which are otherwise excellent, that no one disputes, which is why it is harmful to create a political mood that you are now trying to stimulate. [[13.50]] Our aim is to ensure that what works well can continue to work from more extensive sources, where efficiency needs to be increased, where the necessary conditions need to be ensured, in particular through performance measurement and a tendering system. That's the government's proposal. We're offering this to the Academy as well. And we think, of course, that anything can create an international scandal today, and this is even easier with regard to Hungary, but so far it has not been an internal political benefit for you, so it is worth getting to know the draft law that Minister Palkovics is going to present, which we will discuss here. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-03-114	Thank you, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congressman.
u2019-06-03-115	Dear Minister, I would very much like to have a professional debate. In every press release, press conference and here in plenary, I have always pointed out that the Academy, the elements of which are actually still training a Soviet-Russian academy, would very much like to discuss this, but that is not the way that has been going on for two years now, the anti-scientific tragedy that is being carried out by your government in this form. Excuse me, this whole thing is about ripping off innovation money and EU money. It's clear as day from the Max Planck Institute. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Intitude?! I've never heard of that. Instigate! That's how you say it. Seriously...!]] 60 percent of the funds are going to initial education, and otherwise, it could really be discussed how university research could be better developed, but it would not be what is going on now that, let's say, we are firing instructors from ELTE in several waves, and there are no research resources. The Jobbik, as a national ethnic party, obviously gives this 5,000 instructors and their families solidarity, because protecting the MTA is a matter that should be important to all honest patriots, and in education and science policy, I would think that we are going in a very, very bad direction. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-116	Thank you very much. The Minister is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-06-03-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, An anti-scientific strategy is difficult to call a proposal that increases the resources available for research and innovation by more than 25 percent by HUF 32 billion. Your comments will be discussed in a professional and objective manner in the debate on the bill to be submitted by the government. I would like to emphasise once again the need for objective benchmarking and benchmarking. The allegations made several times by the Government and Minister Palkovic on the effectiveness of the research strategy in relation to the need for greater concentration and, in particular, the need for greater coordination in such a country, were not disputed by anyone in professional forums. The proposal does not wish to eliminate the Academy and, in particular, academics from the scope of research and development, and even our aim is to involve them in this, but to support research and development in Hungary in a uniform way, from significantly wider sources than those that have been available so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-03-118	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, Member of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. How does public supervision ensure the effectiveness of basic research more effectively than the MTA? It's an address. The Minister asked Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, to reply in response to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-06-03-119	I'll take it.
u2019-06-03-120	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor.
u2019-06-03-121	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, the process of restructuring the research institutes of the MTA has arrived at another stage. Last Tuesday, the government sent another draft law to the MTA, and on the afternoon of May 30, according to the press, negotiations between the two institutions took place. The result is currently unknown. However, what we do know is that the new version prepared on Friday already contains, unlike the previous one, the provision that the central budget must secure funds for institution-keeping expenditure in research centres. Yesterday's demonstration, which I myself participated in, clearly indicated that there was still no consensus on fundamental issues. It seems that the government has not abandoned the separation of the research institutes and research centers of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences from the Academy, in a new organisational form, to establish the Eötvös Loránd research network. The government's position has not changed either on the question that this network would be run by a body of 13 members, in which six would be nominated by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and six by the government, and the members and the head of the board would be appointed by the Prime Minister. I ask Mr Secretary of State with respect why, on this basis, the government believes that public supervision will ensure the effectiveness of basic research more effectively than the autonomy of research institutions. I also ask whether, after Thursday's trial or yesterday's demonstration, the government does not wish to maintain the current situation, realizing that the current way of operating research institutions better guarantees the emergence of new scientific results. Finally, the government is not afraid that the uncertainty and rejection of restructuring for almost a year are encouraging many researchers to work abroad permanently or to leave the scientific sphere. I would be honored to thank you in advance for your reply.
u2019-06-03-122	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-06-03-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is difficult to accept as credible the concern for the fate and scientific freedom of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences from the representative in the ranks of the MSZP, because you, as Minister Gulyás referred to it in 2006, ran into the door of a miscarriaged science privatization experiment, and, together with your ally, you simply wanted to level with the earth the research structures and capacities that you would like to defend now. His question was whether the government would see it more effective in a different structure, in a different form of funding, to continue working on research institutes, research itself, the structure of research. Even in certain documents of the MTA, the findings that say that, in its present form, it is not certain that research institutes can function effectively, change is necessary. If you had read these materials carefully, you would have seen and seen the need for some sort of transformation. On the question of how the budget resources for science can be managed properly, with public coordination, efficient operation, efficiency of use and scientific freedom in a fruitful way, I suggest that you look around the world, for example, at how this funding works in the Netherlands, Germany, the United Kingdom or Israel. If you believe that there is no scientific freedom and no effective, effective basic research in these countries, then you can also initiate some kind of scientific public review or conversion of funding there. But the exact opposite is shown by the results there, the efficiency indicators. I'll pick it up later. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-03-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2019-06-03-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I asked him about the effectiveness of the basic research results, if he had listened to my question correctly. But I would have expected one more argument from you and Mr. Gulyás. We have heard the change of structure many times, but it is justified by this decision by linking the efficiency and the economy that Minister Palkovic has recently said. Of course, Mr Palkovic is right if we are talking about corporate R &amp; D, this would be appropriate. But the nature of basic research is completely opposed, because basic research cannot predict how scientific results will be produced and how successful they will be. What you are saying, this can improve the existing one at most, that is also doubtful, and the MTA has also drawn attention to this, but it cannot produce new results. Here, I think they will also trap themselves, which is why we should continue to ensure independence that can achieve new results in Hungary. It is clear here that EU funds are being sucked up and the rest of the criticism that concerns you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The aim is to eliminate Hungary, to turn it into a dark hole in which you feel the most.
u2019-06-03-126	Thank you, Congresswoman. The rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State.
u2019-06-03-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think you or you are trapped when you make these arguments before a change. Minister Palkovic has also said in several interviews, on several occasions, that, of course, the money spent on basic research and the expectations there will not change. However, we would like the results of basic research to be better exploited in the field of applied research, and this is how the two areas depend on one another. [[14.00]] And, among other things, in order to make these work more efficient, to be more efficient in research, to be better able to adapt to the needs of the economy, as Minister Gulyás said, which is why the money for research and development will increase by HUF 32 billion after the adoption of the budget, if you support, for example, with your votes on the adoption of the budget, this change and change. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What will be the fate of the Széchényi Library? The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public duty. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Zsolt Gréczy nods.]] Congressman says yes. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor.
u2019-06-03-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The problem is not only the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I would only like to draw attention to today's news: today, a researcher announced that he was leaving the country and took with him the multibillion-dollar scholarship program that could have been spent here in Hungary and increased the knowledge of Hungarian educated people, not to mention Hungary's reputation. And before I quickly get into the history of the Széchényi Library, only in its recent history, I would like to indicate that with your hands away from the Institute of 56. You would have at least had the decency not to set aside an important scientific workshop for the 30th anniversary of the change of regime and the 30th anniversary of the remarrying of Imre Nagy and his fellow martyrs. As far as the Széchényi Library is concerned: the Széchényi Library is currently closed, we understand that it will not open in the Buda Castle. I would like to convey the concerns of experts, librarians, archivists and restorers about the invaluable value held by the National Széchényi Library. For the time being, all the books published in the territory of Hungary are being collected professionally by this institution, and we are a little concerned about what will happen to them. So my questions are: when does the library move? Isn't it true that the government has chosen Kilian barracks, moldy, in many ways unsuitable for this task? What is the guarantee that these national treasures can move safely into a worthy environment that readers can easily visit? Who will make the move? How will the representatives of the profession of librarian, archivist and restorer participate in this? Is it true that, in order to implement the IT system of the new library, a Fidesz company will be appointed, as has already been published in several places in the press? What will be the fate of the halls left in the Castle, will Orbán's people move in there and serve a kind of Fidesz representational purpose? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-03-130	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-03-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Somehow I feel that it is not the first time, and perhaps not the last time, that the better for you, the more you feel that something is worse for this country. So it's like you're rooting for something bad to happen. But believe me, Congressman, you will find this less and less, and you will find more and more positive developments, for example, in the case of the Széchényi Library. Obviously, a fraction of the questions you've asked here can be answered at the moment, precisely because no decision has been made, and some things have been decided years ago, which you've asked. I am thinking mainly about IT development, and it is already well-known, and its results can be enjoyed by everyone in the national namespace as an IT development, so you can enjoy it on the Internet. Where exactly and when the National Széchényi Library will move, there is no final government decision in this. There is no doubt that a decision has been made to build the archive warehouse in Piliscsaba. So what you have just mentioned is that with immediate or the next day's preparation, everything is not digital, but an analogue document, so in Hungarian, this has happened. I think the venue itself is a hit, because it is located in a beautiful location, and very quickly you can give these required specimens or others to Budapest. The government has already decided on 10 billion HUF of development in the Széchényi Library since it is important that it is accessible and accessible as much as possible. And this is not only for the Széchényi Library, but also for the entire library network. So, where it could be, there were results. As far as the Institute of 56 is concerned, honourable Member, a research institute from a library does not remain a part of the library, but a research institute becomes part of a research institute. In addition, it is part of a research institute whose task is to make Hungary's history more widely known from reconciliation to change of regime. I think that it is obvious that the wider understanding of the period of '56 in such a place, such a research institute, may be in a better place and is even better for the common good. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-132	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is due, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, if the Széchényi Library moves to Piliscsaba... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The archive warehouse is moving there!]] I understand that, but his solution in Budapest was not yet established, and we are now at the moment that the Széchényi Library is closed. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's in every summer!]] So anyone who wants to get in or read can't do that right now. As far as the Institute of 56 is concerned, I would like to point out that if it is classified under the Veritas Institute, then this is the institute where the Holocaust was otherwise called a regular alien police procedure. And I would also like to point out that Director General Szakály, who, according to the press, is now seriously ill, protested earlier that the Institute of 56 was placed under his institute. I do not agree with Sándor Szakály's political views and his historical work, but even he did this gesture. I hope this isn't about making a decision based on someone's sickbed and possibly referring to their medical condition, which makes this extremely important and great workshop, the Institute of 56 impossible. Thank you very much. [[István Szilárd Németh: That was the Gyurcsány period, not now. Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-06-03-134	Thank you, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2019-06-03-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Every summer there's a break at the Széchényi Library. [[Gergely Arató: And will you open in September, Mr. Secretary of State?]] You have demanded, as has everyone else, that there are obviously conditions in certain parts of the building that require renovation. These renovations have started, precisely so that the conditions for working there are healthier and more effective, honourable Member. So there is a renovation that I think you could welcome and not criticize here in Parliament. I refuse that anyone in Hungary who holds a responsible position on the national side would have called the Holocaust an alien police procedure at any time. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Sándor Szakály!]] The Holocaust Hungary XX. One of the greatest tragedies in centuries' history, many hundreds of thousands of our countrymen, all of whom we mourn together, have been lost. So I'm asking you not to say such sentences here in Parliament, and don't try to put them in your mouth on the national side. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I didn't say it, Sándor Szakály said it!]] And I can assure you that, while you have not dealt with the Széchényi Library, you have been allowed to work year after year under increasingly poor conditions, for IT development, for XXI. They did not spend a significant amount of money on their arrival in the century. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This government spent 10 billion forints on it [[The president's ringing again.]] to make the public goods available digitally, and this government will also ensure its proper placement. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The Buda Castle was very good! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-06-03-137	We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2019-06-03-138	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Still, does the Government agree with the LMP? It's an address. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There may be other politics...]] The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-06-03-139	Although I was expecting Attila Philip for the first time, I accept Mr. Secretary of State.
u2019-06-03-140	He'll take it. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2019-06-03-141	Thank you very much. Government is basically about who is money, who is a priority to the Hungarian government, who is given resources and who is deprived of resources. The budget will be now in the coming months, and it will clearly be seen whether the government will change the policy of not taking care of caregivers. Here I also think of those who care for people at home, with 0-24 crucified jobs and those who are in the institution. [[14.10]] My first question about the institution is whether the negotiations with the social sector representative will finally be concluded, whether they will finally increase the dramatic and inexplicable wages of the social sector, and whether they will finally resolve in Hungary whether a health educator working in the social sector will not earn HUF 130,000 net per month. Second, when will the home - care fee be finally raised for people who care for a spouse or parents at home, not their children? When will this amount be increased, which is also inexplicably 58 thousand forints? I ask Mr Secretary of State once again, as we have done several times before, not in percentage, but in HUF, to tell me how much previous increases mean, how much is a 10 percent increase at 58 thousand forints. The third is what you seem to agree with the LMP: for six months more people have said here, I have also said that in relation to the weed, in relation to child care, children with autism or children with other intellectual disabilities have created a point system that does not take into account their special life situation. Recently, we read in the communication of the National Association of Autists that they are still changing this system of points. Then, Mr. Secretary, say in the record that I did not cause hysteria for six months, but that what I said came from the real lives of the people, and that is why you are changing this system of points. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-03-142	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-03-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What means wage increases in the social sphere, honourable Member, it is the opposition representatives who are talking about it, and it is the governing parties who have stepped up in this matter, because in 2014 we introduced a sectoral wage supplement, in 2015 we introduced a sectoral wage supplement, in 2016, a combined wage supplement, so there was one time when we raised the wages of everyone in the social sphere in general and there was one when we were differentiated. Those who have worked there for a long time or had more experience with a higher degree of education have been raised to a greater degree, precisely to keep the people with the most extensive experience on the field. If you add up the wage increases in the past period, in which it has indeed played a role, that the minimum wage for skilled workers has also been increased to a very large extent, and this has obviously meant a significant increase in wages for those with a lower education than those with a lower job, you can see a rise of around 60 per cent in this sector in the last five to eight years. You did not support these wage increases, nor the wage supplement, nor did you support them; in fact, in this Parliament, they said that they should be chartered, and that you would draw about HUF 15,000 from the pockets of all social workers, because this extra HUF 15,000 would not be added to their basic wage, but would be incorporated into the basic wage, and the increase in the minimum wage, the increase in the minimum wage, would not push these wages up, but consume the salary supplement. So you guys would've been worse off with social workers. I do not agree either, and the government disagrees with what you have done here in Parliament in relation to the home care fee: on 12 December the introduction of the children's home care fee was not voted in favour of, and the introduction of the care fee was not voted in favour. What you didn't vote for by number? To raise the children's home care fee to HUF 100,000 for those who care for their own children at home, and to the level of the minimum wage at that time until 2022, much more than this, many, many tens of thousands of HUF, may even be doubled. Neither do you, that you will receive 100 thousand forints, nor that in 2022 you will receive about 200 thousand forints of the minimum wage. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It would have been better for LMP to vote with the ruling parties. I'll be back in a minute. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2019-06-03-145	So no matter how much you read the production report of the 1974 Free People, currently in an ENO a medical educator earns 130 thousand forints net. [[István Szilárd Németh constantly intervenes.]] So you can tell me seventy-four more times how many percent we are... Mr. Secretary, please try to act civilized. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He always succeeds!]] I'm moving on. The other is that what I asked you was that I suggested that children living with autism should be left out of their weed system. They went on Echo TV, they told us that they were creating political hysteria, and what a terrible quality of people everyone here, including a civil society organization, has spoken about it. They have now admitted, after consulting the AOSZ, that this system of points needs to be changed. So why didn't they do anything six months ago in the last six months? Why didn't they do anything? They didn't do anything because it's more important for you to always be right, to always go on Echo TV and say victory propaganda than to help real Hungarian people. That's why!
u2019-06-03-146	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-06-03-147	Honourable Congressman, We don't have to tell us anything, because we're all Members of Parliament, we're here, and the parliamentary record contains our votes. Did you support the introduction of home care fees for either autists or any other rightholder and receive 100 thousand forints? Did you or did you not support him? Even now, your fellow Member says that it is irregular, that it is a matter of tens of thousands of people, that he would withdraw this amount. We did not create hysteria, Mr President, but the voting record shows that you did not support it here when you could have done so as a Member of Parliament. He was at an arm's length from his own yes button, but you were on the verge of beeping. [[Péter Ungár: I've never self-fed in my life, I'm sorry.]] and it was more important than pressing a button about raising the home care fee, honourable Member. We also said after the vote, also in December, in January, and even together with the organisations concerned, that we would continue to negotiate, so that all solutions would be the ideal solution for them. This was the case last year, the year before last, and so it is this year, and what they asked for changes, we passed it last year, and we passed it through this year. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] You didn't vote last year, and we carried through what they asked for again this year; that's the difference between you and us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you need to crush the freedom of science, or why did Minister László Palkovics become the best student of Mátyás Rákosi? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-06-03-149	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2019-06-03-150	You have the floor, Congressman Bence of Tordai.
u2019-06-03-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Yesterday, thousands of people protested alongside the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, in addition to freedom of science, freedom of knowledge and against you, because you want to crush it with your feet. This future killer, the Hungarian researcher who pursues abroad and ignores the interests and aspects of Hungarian science, is what everyone in the research sphere rejects regardless of world view in the cream of Hungarian intellectuals. This is not a professional debate, this is not a debate on the worldview, and you are against Hungarian science. I don't like these big words, I don't like cancer, so let's stick to the facts of what happened after 45 with the Academy and what happened after 2010. After 45 the land reform took away their land estates, their money and securities were consumed by the pengó depreciation. After 2010, the state aid continued to decline, and in 19 they lost HUF 28 billion. In 1948, the Academy's tenements were nationalized, and now they're planning to hand over the real estates of the MTA to the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, which you're setting up for free. In 1949, the Rákosi set up the Hungarian Scientific Council, and now you create the National Science Policy Council to decide the direction of supported research. And just to mention the Institute of 56: the revolution of 56 was defeated by Soviet tanks, and you are destroying the Institute of 56 with Stalini methods. Then the question arises why Mr.Orbán and László Palkovics became the best students of Mátyás Rákosi.
u2019-06-03-152	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2019-06-03-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You say you don't like cancer, but just in case, you're looking for a parallel between the Minister of Innovation and the Prime Minister and Mátyás Rákosi. [[Gergely Harvester: Give yourself my parallel, you didn't have to look for it!]] I believe that this is extremely low, even in terms of what you represent here in Parliament. Mátyás Rákosi is one of the most brutal executioners in Hungarian history, compared to this, you are sitting in the party that is the successor of Mátyás Rákosi's party and your party is in league with that party. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Peter Cseresnyés: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Bravo!]] You have reached a parliamentary mandate by making an alliance with Mátyás Rákosi's successor party. After all, I would like to draw attention to the parallel between your current activities and the founding of Mátyás Rákosi's party. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-154	Thank you very much, Minister. The congressman is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. [[14.20]]
u2019-06-03-155	We always look behind such a transformation for the aspects that govern Fidesz, whether money or power is more important in the case at hand. They are probably both now, since even independent thinkers are interfering with Fidesz's policy of power, and they also consider this stolen institutional network to be suitable for draining EU funds. But I don't want to insult the Communists by calling you Communists. Our compassionate, peace - loving fellow citizens, who claim to be communists, would rightly be puzzled by the fact that I mention them on a page with the Fidesz. So let's just say that you were the successors of Mátyás Rákosi based on the historical facts and historical parallels, and he was Stalin's best Hungarian student. Congratulations on that. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No applause! Bence of Turdai applauds. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Give yourself a round of applause.]]
u2019-06-03-156	Thank you, Congressman. Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2019-06-03-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I was waiting for a round of applause, but Congressman applauded himself. Slowly, if you expect a round of applause from the voters, you will not hear much more noise, because as a result of the elections to the European Parliament, we see that either your party, the Dialogue, is below 1 percent, or the Hungarian Socialist Party is below 5 percent. One of the two statements is true: either the MSZP is no longer a 5 percent party, or you are no longer a 1 percent party. As to your points: in the case of communism, I would not open a debate with the representative of the allied party with the MSZP, because the alliance with the Communist successor party is with good heart, and he believes that a democratic election can be compared to a party of government which has been won with a very strong legitimacy. You can do this, because we are in a democracy and we have freedom of speech, and the voters will continue to appreciate this, as they have already appreciated. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-158	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. How can the opposition prevent the prosecution of the perpetrators? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-06-03-159	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2019-06-03-160	It says yes. Mr László Böröcz has the floor.
u2019-06-03-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There was great indignation across the country that Csaba Czeglédy's EP candidate for immunity was not suspended on 7 May thanks to the cooperation of the National Election Committee, members delegated by the opposition. As is known, Csaba Czeglédy, the lawyer of MSZP-DK, was charged with the criminality of fiscal fraud, which is a particularly significant financial disadvantage, by the prosecution. According to the prosecution, Csaba Czeglédy cut the Hungarian budget by 6.2 billion HUF. It is important to point out that Czeglédy had already been convicted of similar crimes in 2003, so his limping in the role of victim is a bit lame. In view of all of this, DK has added the Czeglédy, who has a criminal record, to his own list. The fact that Czeglédy was in the last place of the list only refers to the intention of circumventing the law, so there was no realistic chance of obtaining the mandate at all. Ladies and gentlemen, For 29 years, it has been an unwritten rule in public life that the right to immunity for candidates is suspended in the case of persons accused of criminal charges. After nearly three decades, the opposition managed to break this moral minimum. It is a shame and a shame that the entire opposition is enlisted as an accomplice alongside a criminal who taps public funds. You can't just leave that alone. In view of what has been said, I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State: how can the opposition prevent the prosecution of the perpetrators? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-162	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2019-06-03-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, If we think of Csaba Czeglédy's DK-MSZP relationship, the school associations, the missing more than HUF 6 billion, then we can see that there is a very deep connection between Ference Gyurcsány, his wife and Csaba Czeglédy in that case. [[Gergely Harvester: I don't know what you're carrying around here!]] where Altus even lent a loan in the course of this questionable transaction. And it can also be seen that the affair is old, it may have come from 2003 or earlier, because at last year's parliamentary elections the left has committed the same provocation, when he also nominated Csaba Czeglédy as a Member of Parliament, only because of the wise decision of the National Election Committee of that time to suspend his immunity and to continue the procedure, as it did this year. This year, when the European Parliament elections took place, this provocative step also came, obviously the 36th or I don't know what kind of place represented a great deal of pull on the DK list, and probably Csaba Czeglédy had a realistic chance of getting out from their point of view and was initiated to become a representative. We can see that he is not being sent to Brussels, so it was all a charade, and it was all about the fact that the majority of opposition delegates in the National Election Committee practically reserved their immunity to the candidate, taking into account the written and unwritten rules of the law. By the way, I note that Parliament's practice has indeed been unbroken in recent times, since 90, in all cases in public law cases, so that the proceedings can be conducted against them. The opposition delegates in the National Election Committee could not jump on this as a professional issue. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2019-06-03-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw Mr Arató's attention to the fact that if you are so protective of Csaba Czeglédy, then why did you not take the courage to collect the money that the Hungarian state has paid to the hundreds of students and the hard-working pensioners whose money was stolen through Csaba Czeglédy's company. [[Gergely Arató: Because there was no such thing, dear congressman. They talked about it, but there were no results in this case. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-06-03-166	Continue, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-167	Congressman, I am very confident that the government will find it, and we will find together the possibility that no one can hide behind its immunity in such cases, and that you will not be able to play it out with opposition parties to defend Csaba Czeglédy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Gergely Harvesto: Erdoğan must be proud of you!]]
u2019-06-03-168	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2019-06-03-169	Dear House, Dear fellow Member, To remedy this issue, a bill has been submitted from the Fidesz fraction, which has also been put on the agenda by the Judicial Committee. By the way, it is clear from the minutes that neither DK nor Jobbik voted in favour of this amendment, and the MSZP made a spectacular withdrawal from this meeting. What's this story about? The right of immunity clearly serves to prevent the Member and the candidate from being prosecuted and prevented from doing so in the context of his political activities. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's what you're trying to stop! That's your goal!]] It is clear from the fact that DK and the left are so keenly in favour of Csaba Czeglédy in this public-law case that their political activities include the commission of criminal offences. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Miklós Seszták, representative of KDNP... Excuse me, Ádám Steinmetz is next, followed by Miklós Seszták. Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. From Laktany, a military plant or a migrant worker's hostel? It's an address. Minister has appointed Minister of State Németh to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-06-03-171	Yes, of course I'll take it.
u2019-06-03-172	Thank you. Mr. Ádám Steinmetz has the floor.
u2019-06-03-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We see throughout the country that our anti-immigration government installs tens of thousands of migrant workers, Ukrainians, Turks and Mongolians. We know of hundreds of settlements where cheap eastern workers are hired to avoid paying higher wages to Hungarians. [[14.30]] While you are literally proclaiming that Hungary will not be an immigrant country, in Tiszaújváros it is supported by HUF 12 billion to build for 3,000 Muslims, and elsewhere, to transform barracks for this purpose. In Marcali, the famous military town, there's been an empty barracks for 18 years. Although my fellow Member, József Attila Móring, promised me earlier that it should not be a migrant base, but a defence plant, we are afraid that the government has another purpose with it. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: how can the Martal barracks be a defence plant when it is not in the management of the defence portfolio? What are you going to use it for? Did Attila Moring József even agree with the Ministry on his promises? When will the military plant create 200-220 new jobs? Dear Secretary of State, I would like to remind you that the Kecskemét, Kalocsa and Szentgotthárd barracks have been turned into migrant workers' shelters. Please tell us in your reply that the Petőfi Sándor barracks in Marcal is not going to. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-174	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, State Secretary.
u2019-06-03-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Two months ago, you tried to talk about everything in writing and make the Hungarian government and the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence look bad. I'm also putting this immediate question to you today. He hasn't thought about what you're asking, and who you're talking about, because there are two of them, because it's been about former Hunyadi and former Petőfi barracks for 16 years, since 2003 it hasn't been owned, owned and managed by the Ministry of Defence or the Hungarian Defence. Thus, the Ministry of Defence, the Minister of Defence and his Secretary of State have neither jurisdiction nor authority to make any statement to this question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2019-06-03-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I've been asking questions about the environmental status of the former barracks, which is of great interest to the general public. It turns out, and you've confirmed that this hasn't been in the wallet's hands for a long, long time. How, then, can a Fidesz representative who is not a member of the Defence Commission, by the way, promise that this property will become a defence plant? Please, it's funny. If your government doesn't take Attila Moring József seriously, at least take the citizens of Marcal seriously. The fact that your representative again promises to deceive the voters, as he did in the case of the independent hospital, as he did in connection with the emergency center, the CT equipment and the helicopter landing, is still outrageous. The citizens of Marcal want meaningful jobs, substantial wage increases, not migrant workers. Not a migrant base, but a military plant in Marcal. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-178	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also possible for the Secretary of State.
u2019-06-03-179	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, You know, you can read, you can't hear much, but I repeat once again that this property is neither owned, owned, or managed by the military nor by the Ministry. You're also a lawyer. As a lawyer, you should know that there is no way for the Minister or the Deputy Secretary of State to answer you on this matter here in Parliament. So since we have neither jurisdiction nor authority in this matter, please contact those who have competence and competence in the matter you are asking. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Miklós Seszták, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. What kind of economic recovery programmes is the Hungarian government planning in Hungarian territory across the border? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Levente Magyar State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Miklós Seszták: Of course.]] Congressman says yes. Congressman Miklós Seszták has the floor.
u2019-06-03-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For the Hungarian government, it doesn't matter what happens in the Carpathian Basin, because it is a fundamental issue for a responsible national government to help Hungarians living beyond their borders to live, live and stay in their homeland. The Pro Economica Foundation has launched a support programme in Transylvania to create the largest, concentrated agricultural development in the region. There is every chance that in the next two years some EUR 300 million will be developed in Szeklerland agriculture. This concentrated agricultural development can change the agricultural structure of the region. In addition to Transylvania, the Hungarians living in Vojvodina are also assisted by the mother country with the second phase of the economic development programme announced there. The last three-year economic development programme phase was only the beginning, because after it was proven successful, the Hungarian government launched ten new applications in the second phase of the economic development programme in Vojvodina. Among other things, Hungarians living in Vojvodina can apply for farmhouse purchase, land purchase, crop production, animal husbandry and tourist development. But there is also an economic development programme for 10 billion HUF, 49 applications have been submitted, so this program can be considered a success. Dear Secretary of State, The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the government's efforts to support Hungarian farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises and the tourism sector in Transylvania, Slovakia and Vojvodina, as it is in our common interest to protect the livelihoods of those working in assisted sectors and thus to stop the migration of young people across the border. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask, with all due respect, the Secretary of State: do the economic development programmes of recent years seem to be the result? What kind of farm revival program is the government planning in the future? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-182	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2019-06-03-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the question, because it concerns a subject that we do not talk about much, but it is of greater importance and we have been able to deliver more serious successes in recent years. Dear House, In the last hundred years, Hungary has not been in a position to provide meaningful assistance to our countrymen living across borders for various reasons, for various decades for different reasons, but for this we had very little room for manoeuvre, the country was neither financially nor politically in a situation where it was able to support these communities that were largely beyond the border. This has changed for the first time in recent years since 1918, since 2010 the Hungarian economy has started to grow, and at the 13-14 round, there has been a breakthrough development that continues to take place, and in Europe the country has one of the largest economic growth rates, creating additional resources that have not been available since the change of regime, and which have not yet been able to contribute tens of billions of forints per year to a change of approach, a change of national policy paradigm, to help the Hungarians across the border to stay in their homeland and thrive, but also to provide meaningful, tangible assistance in a form that has been able to help the enterprise, the development of the large and small industry, and, not least, and perhaps even the most important sector, to help agriculture to create jobs locally, create added value locally, which has so far been produced at borders, beyond their borders or within the majority nation's borders. I consider this to be a very serious achievement, which is primarily due not to the mother country, but to the perseverance of our countrymen living across the border, to the fact that there is still someone to support after a hundred years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congressman.
u2019-06-03-185	Thank you for your answer. I think it was all in the answer. Hungary now has the opportunity to help across the border and to implement programmes that all support those living across the border and staying there. [[14.40]] I think this is the job that we have to carry on, and I think we're all in this together. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-186	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2019-06-03-187	Dear House, Mr President, I think that perhaps the greatest result and the greatest progress in this area can be seen in the fact that there is consensus not only between us pro-governments but also increasingly I feel that this has become a national issue. [[Gergely Harvestó: I'm sure you've got it with KDNP.]] This has become a national matter. The Democratic Coalition, if that is the name of the congressman's party; something like that is the only Hungarian political assembly [[The intervention of Gergely Arató and Zsolt Gréczy.]] which is trying to make political capital by inciting our countrymen across the border. The only political party that bears the seal of treason on its forehead, not even hiding, but openly accepting national treason and the continued expulsion of our countrymen from our blood beyond the border. [[There are constant interruptions from DK and Fidesz.]] You are worthy heirs of the revolutionaries of 1918, the communists of 1948 and that post-socialist legacy [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] of which you are perhaps the most powerful last hosts. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Within the framework of the agenda, the last immediate question will be taken. Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: Why is the Government not family-friendly in tax matters? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congresswoman with respect if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2019-06-03-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Last week, the Minister of Finance announced his 13+1 point economic protection action plan. The points include, inter alia, the reduction of the rate of advertising tax to zero per cent. The MSZP welcomes the suspension of the tax. The government finally realized that it was a mistake to intervene politically in media competition. The MSZP will also support the suspension of the advertising tax. With regard to the announcement, we cannot go beyond the fact that although the government's propaganda is fond of saying how family-friendly the Cabinet is, it is precisely the support measures for families that have been left out of the notified package. We can't support families with the highest incomes with tax incentives if most families can't take advantage of it. On the other hand, the family allowance has not been increased for ten years, even though it affects all families. On the other hand, the tax burden on families is a world record with 27 percent of you, and it affects all families. There is a legitimate question as to why the government does not want to include in its big action plan the VAT reduction of babyholms and female hygiene products that are essential for childbearing. There are several examples of this not only in the European Union but also in neighbouring countries. The most recent tax relief scheme for the purchase of babyholm was introduced in Serbia, which can be used until the child's age of two. Why doesn't this happen here? There is a legitimate question as to when the family allowance will finally rise. Dear Secretary of State, The question arises inevitably: if the government sees a source of tax reductions for employers and multinationals, then why hasn't there been money for 10 years to raise the family allowance and reduce the tax on baby-holms. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-03-190	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2019-06-03-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let's end this debate right from the beginning. With regard to baby places, I would like to say that there is a directive of the European Union, Council Directive 2006/112/EC, called the VAT Directive. It has an annex, Annex 3. Annex 3 lists the products and product groups which may have a reduced rate of taxation. It doesn't include the products you're proposing, at least with respect to the baby holi. Therefore, the EU Directive must also be respected when someone is in opposition and when they are in government. The situation is different with regard to female hygiene products. This issue will be examined by the government and, of course, you will be informed if a decision is taken to reduce VAT. But if you'll allow me, after you've brought in the family allowance, I can say that there is a theoretical, principled debate between us regarding the support of families. I think that when we introduced the system of personal income tax, i.e. family tax relief, first and then you completely ended it, then the debate became clear between us. We support married couples and families who work, earn income, tax and have children. This is why a system of family tax relief for personal income tax is established. Today, the family tax relief system affects 1.1 million families in Hungary, with 1575 billion remaining in the pocket of Hungarian families between 2011 and 2017. Thank you. I'm afraid I can't continue. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-03-192	Thank you very much. You will have the opportunity, Mr State Secretary, for I will give you the floor in return.
u2019-06-03-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I think there is an opportunity to change that. So I think that we can agree that this matter is really important, and that having children is extremely important for the Hungarian government. I would also like not one in six children to be born abroad. The VAT on these baby products should be reduced in order to increase birth and to curb emigration. I think it's extremely important. But in any case, I think that if there is an intention in the government to take appropriate action on this matter and, by the way, to persuade those who are also serious about babysitting, I thank you very much.
u2019-06-03-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2019-06-03-195	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You must also see that while you are talking about the family allowance system, the current government, the Fidesz-KDNP family tax relief system, is much more effective and operational. Remember that while we were talking about families, you supported those on minimum wage and those on welfare during your administration. When we were talking about family tax breaks, you were talking about family allowances, which are due to everyone under all the conditions. I think it is a more effective way to support a family, a married couple, and to deduct it from its taxes, there is no more effective method at the moment, and since the Hungarian government is using it, it does not want to change that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-03-196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. After the agenda, Mrs Dóra Dúró applied for a speech, to whom I give the floor in a five-minute time frame: after nine months of its evolution, the text of her post- Agenda speech entitled Mi Hazank, was drafted in a voter's sense.
u2019-06-03-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Nine months after the adoption of our founding declaration, 114 thousand voters honoured the Hungarian Movement by voting in trust for us in the elections to the European Parliament. This has already resulted in a mandate in the European Parliament elections five years ago because of lower participation in the May Other Policy, and nine months, we know that the political scale is extremely short, which is why we consider this election to be a success. I would also like to thank the members, activists and supporters of the Hungarian Movement who have carried this movement on their backs over the last few months and over the past year, and despite all the hardships, they have not given up their faith and hope to lead this party to success. [[14.50]] I would also like to thank the voters who, as a new party, put their trust in us. Their support is important to us, and with their support we will continue our work. For example, today we were able to announce that our environmental cabinet was formed under the name of Green Hungary, for which we also thank those who will be involved in this work as professionals or activists. At the same time, the elections to the European Parliament have brought the black day of public opinion researchers, as even in the case of the Hungarian Movement, our party has been underestimated to an extreme extent, thus affecting the public rather than researching and giving a realistic picture of it, as many voters have been influenced by the fact that our party's support has been constantly reduced to 1 percent, while we are a little over 1 percent away from the parliamentary threshold. But not only our results have not been achieved, but also the results of many opposition parties, but at the same time, after the elections to the European Parliament, we can finally say that the image on the opposition side has become clear. Ferenc Gyurcsány has once again become the leader of the opposition, whose party has graduated high in the competition of opposition parties, and under his leadership this united Balliberal bloc will then operate; we have no doubt that this will determine opposition politics and its possibilities by 2022. He is opposed by Viktor Orbán and the mister-brother system operated by Fidesz, which has created a system of national cooperation, pushing everyone out of it, any voter who disagrees with Viktor Orbán or with the policy of Fidesz. The third page is now built exclusively by the Hungarian Movement, and our aim is to create the third pole, so that we can represent those people who do not ask for the politics of Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Balliberal bloc he led, neither Viktor Orbán and my brother, led by Fidesz. I also need to highlight a very important city that shows the future of the Hungarian Movement in relation to the results of the elections in the European Parliament. This is Törökszentmiklós, where we were the only party on the side of the victims, and we raised our voice against the fact that it is not normal to beat people up in broad daylight in a tram. In addition, this man's criminal record would have predestined him to be behind bars before, but the police, the prosecutor's office, and the courts failed to do so, and this man could continue to live on parole. Even now, nine months after our formation, Törökszentmiklós finished second place in the Hungarian Movement, so this clearly shows that people living in the shadow of this crime and suffering from it require the help and awareness they received only from the Hungarian Movement. Our 15 percent election result shows that we do need to deal with this problem, which neither Gyurcsány nor Orbán have solved, and give a credible answer on the political scene. The Gypsy issue has relevance not only to crime, but also to demography, for example, and two Catholic bishops have already warned that a second Trianon could occur in the foreseeable future, since there are many counties where, based on demographic indicators, Roma are either in the majority or in the near future. The honest and uncompromising representation of all these questions is also the sole responsibility of the Hungarian Movement in the future. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2019-06-03-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: this year, the vineyards will be eliminated for good! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In that case, I asked to speak on the extremely sad matter of Grand Tokaj Zrt. which, in Tokaj-Hegyalja of a state buyer, sent a letter to the berry growers, vineyards, that this year they do not wish to buy the fruit they produce. This was made clear at this time, practically at the end of spring, at the beginning of summer. They explained that they would be able to process 20 percent less grapes, but they promised to give preference to small and medium-sized producers. However, the fact that this letter, in which the prohibition and virtually termination of the acquisition are announced in advance, is highly contrary to the fact that it was sent to small and medium-sized producers only. The picanteria of the case is that Lőrinc Mészáros started a strong push in the region, both in the hotel industry and in the winery, and now small family vineyards that produce on Mátyás Category 1 vineyards are in serious trouble, as they have been forced to sell their berries under the cost price for years. What's the government's answer? A madness called green harvesting, where farmers are called upon to be in such a state, immature [[He's showing me a green bunch of grapes.]] So greenly remove the curls from the capital and rot practically under the plants without the curls becoming a quality wine-growing grape. This destruction will then be made with a certain amount of money, rather than taking into account the demand of cooperatives in Tokaj-Hegyalya or anywhere else in the country who have requested money from the same source for, for example, processing capacity. Instead of promoting this and creating processing units owned by local producers, instead they spend the same money to destroy the fruit they want to produce before ripening. It's completely insane and unacceptable. It is no wonder that the grievances of vineyards, since their representation in the National Council of Mountains is minimal or equivalent to zero in certain areas. This is a very old, several-year-old pain, which, unfortunately, has not yet been cured, which is why, for example, we got to this point, because the winemaker who can appear on the market at 6-8-10 thousand HUF/bottle prices does not complain, he does not have a problem, and he also represents his interests in government decisions. But the berry farmer, who, as I said, has been forced to sell his vineyard at a cost price for years, cannot enforce his own interests at the national council, at the chamber, at the Ministry or at the government. Let me give you a few talking numbers, since we're on the subject here. 18 years ago, therefore, an entire generation of adults was usually the buying-in price of grapes in this region. Now you want to give me 50 forints. While input materials are thinking about fertilizer, the price of different plant protection products has increased by five times. Since then, the price of live labour has risen from HUF 3000 to HUF 8000 if we project it for one day, and, as I mentioned above, the price of berries is only received for less than half. So this green harvesting is quite simply unacceptable. It is calculated on the basis of a formula of how much grapes have been delivered by the producer in the last three years, which is multiplied by 50 forints. Just in the last few minutes, I've had the opportunity to speak to a local Tokaj-hegyalja producer who says to the government that these 50 forints won't even be enough for the rope. Yes, unfortunately, many, many families are forced to give up this ancient occupation, even if the work of several generations is wasted. Of course, you don't mind, because the land concentration is also the goal in this area, so that your own landlords can get these vineyards, for example, by the aforementioned Lőrinc Mészáros. It's absurd that they want to finance this from rural development. So you want to reduce the Hungarian vineyard from rural development sources. I would also like to suggest that your ministry and its activities should then, let us say, be baptized as a source of rural resurgence or rural redevelopment and a ministry. I am very, very, very sorry that they didn't come in at both ministerial and secretary level to listen to the grievances of the vineyards and at least give them some answers. I took the liberty of bringing in a small amount of this green harvesting, a little taste, and since no one's sitting here, I'd like to put it on the table in case someone takes it to the Minister. [[He places a basket full of green grapes on the table of Dr. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture. Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-200	Thank you, Congressman. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-meeting speech in Tapolca. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.00]]
u2019-06-03-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It may be unconventional for an opposition representative to try not to promote a pro-government criticism or a party policy, but, as Mr President said, in the title: success is always in the power of unity. I could have also given my speech to the address of health for thousands and millions of hospitals! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's In 2009, Richter launched a health program, over 200,000 screenings were carried out in more than 70 cities ten years ago, and thus, as a donation to hospitals participating in this screening, 350 million HUF was collected, as all the patients and participants in the screenings contributed 300 HUF to a two million HUF fund. I think that the importance of these screening tests is very important, because the government, health care and health system cannot do this, they cannot complete it, and that is why I think that is the place and time for such cooperation here in Hungary. In May 2019 there was such an event in my home town, Tapolca, in the centre of the constituency. I think that this was one of the biggest events in the country, the second most successful event. Thanks to the thousands of screenings, more than HUF 8.5 million was collected at Deák Jenő Hospital. About Deák Jenő Hospital, everyone knows that Mr. Secretary of State has heard many times in my speeches that a 100-year-long, long-standing hospital, whose inauguration, building of buildings, brick tickets were all attended by citizens from Tapolca and Tapolca, built this hospital with the power of unity. In 2012, we had a team to save our classes, but unfortunately we didn't, but now the people from Tapolca and Tapolca have shown us again that we do need it. Let's look at the other side of this, because here I would draw attention to the importance of screening tests. There have been a lot of screening studies at this event that are not available in all health institutions, or, if available, the waiting list is so long that it is difficult for the patients concerned to wait for it. There may have been an angiological examination, cardiology, diatology, gastroenterological studies, and the interesting thing is that only four diseases in my narrow circle of friends have been detected that are now in need of medical attention. I think that this is a triumvirate collaboration, because Richter on the one hand and the hospital on the other, on the other hand, needed the successful application, and the municipality needed the operational and other work to make this 8.5 million HUF donation to the hospital. The hospital's management said that this HUF 8.5 million is used to obtain a video choloscope and other healing tools for a screening test. I think and as a last sentence, I should like to thank Zoltán Dobó, Mayor of Tapolca and the apparatus behind him for the successful application, I would like to thank Richter for having held this successful screening in Tapolca, and I would also like to thank him for the success of the operational work, for helping with recruitment and site insurance, and so, in a uniform manner, this Triumvirate was able to give HUF 8.5 million to the hospital in Tapolca. Go, Tapolca! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-202	Thank you very much, Congressman Rig. After the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech entitled "The Margo of Teacher's Day." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The first Sunday of June is educator's day, and instead of moral and material appreciation, it is usually used to pay the nation's day laborers, teachers here in Hungary with a cheap euphemism. In such cases, employees of public education institutions or higher education institutions deprived of professional, organisational and budgetary autonomy ask themselves whether the Ministry of Human Resources is a careful owner of this area, or an impotent golem, in which political actors often act only as party soldiers, often with malice in this sector. All teachers, teachers, teachers and educators ask these questions, because the most important issue in Hungary is what the fate of the main human capital system will be, and how the current government estimates it, in fact, is not in Hungary. It must be said, and it must be said, that the nation's day laborers are systematically trying to degrade into government servants. These people, these teachers, should have a gold cover for Hungary's competitiveness, to develop young people's talent and knowledge. We are hearing nice plans from the government here for Hungary to be among the five most livable European countries by 2030. As it stands, however, it must be said that this is only a fever dream born in some kind of delirium. I would add that, obviously, unfortunately, if everything goes on as we see it, then there will be nothing. What would be the key to success? It is the multitude of educated heads of people that educators raise young people who are interested in public life and public life issues. It is to create in Hungary a broad middle class, to which accession would not be some kind of science fiction, but a tangible opportunity in Hungary. So, we should create a just society. Instead, we see that the philosophy of government society speaks of nothing but the fact that the members of the Hungarian nation must be chained to the assembly line, and that there should be a demented society of wage slaves here in Hungary, which would serve your power needs by far. It is important to see that low knowledge will lead to low added value and low salaries, and the sad consequence of this will continue to be that the lowest added value in Hungary is the lowest in exports between the V4 states. There will be nothing here from social mobility, nothing from the dreams of competitiveness, and nothing from convergence. They also adapt their policy on educators, as teachers who have to deal with hundreds of thousands of disadvantaged or even multiple disadvantaged students do nothing with their development, differentiated education, integration and often socialisation. This pedagogical society has grown old, the power has brought them under administrative, centralistic and bureaucratic control, not to mention underpaid. How can we achieve unfolding when even the Secretary of State talks about the solution here, when wages do not attract teachers to this career, this wonderful, beautiful career? No kidding. This is a humiliation to teachers, to Hungarian society, to people who really work as day laborers of the nation, and from whom you have taken more than HUF 100 billion in recent years. Even though it is said that teachers' salaries have increased again and again, they have linked teachers' wages to the current screening fund for years, so even in the case of a career-starting educator, we can say that they are taking 50 thousand forints a month, and the average wage of teachers is only 60 percent of the average salary in Hungary. That should change, Mr. Secretary. I could recall here the work of János Ember in 1886, in which he talks about the plight of Hungarian folk teachers. I'll tell you, they were much, much better, even then. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:. For how long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.10]]
u2019-06-03-205	Mr President, Dear House, We have come to the conclusion that, in the shadow of electoral campaigns, my fellow members of the government have forgotten a very important factor, and this is that the season of evictions has practically restarted, the moratorium that Jobbik wanted to prolong until the problem was resolved, unfortunately, cannot offer any protection. That is why I am glad that there is still a government secretary in this room, perhaps he can answer me how many evictions the government is expecting this year, because we know that in the last three years more than ten thousand homes have been emptied, more than ten thousand families have been destined to find a solution either in relation to relatives, acquaintances, or in some kind of overpriced sublet solution, or in trusting for pure luck. I had many rattles with Mr. State Secretary, but we always agreed on one thing, and this is the desire for Hungarian reproduction, so that the children who wanted to come into the world, that the Hungarian population surplus should be restored and achieved on its own, not as a result of some kind of alien influence. That is why I am asking you: do you not think that in the case of this tens of thousands of families, there are hundreds of children who are longing for but are not coming into the world? And if we look at this entire social group, so the well over million people who have been hit by this monstrosity called the incredible credit crisis, then it is no exaggeration to say that the annual demographic indicators are left behind by the disorderly social disaster that has turned into a kind of cataclysm. I would also like to say that if we look at why the number of live births is falling again, why the fertility index is deteriorating, then I agree that the Balliberal wording is misleading that it would be an absolute error merely to examine the number of live births, because we can see that again less than before, but the number of women of childbearing age, the base from which a nation state can work, shows a constant decline. Therefore, mere mathematics does not come to our aid here, but it is quite certain that the fertility rate you refer to shows something. Luckily, this went up to 1.5 percent; it is now again 1.5 below a very small, minimal decrease, unfortunately. But I see that at government level, complete social classes are left out of planning for the future, and if these social classes were involved, discussed, participated in the life of Hungary, then change would be tangible. Who are we thinking of? On the one hand, we think of our emigrated Hungarian compatriots who did not leave because of an adventure, but because of the coercion. In their case, we don't actually meet any motivators that could keep them at home or call them home. Jobbik's rental building program could provide an excellent alternative, saving Hungarians working abroad the 10-15 years they now have to spend in banks' clutches in order to gain a home of their own. Those who could benefit from state support for housing savings will be left out, and, let's say, later on, they could provide, guarantee, achieve a CSOK part of this. There is no such option today, since state support for housing savings has ceased, and Antalak Rogán's home lottery remains in its undeveloped form and in a way that is unattainable by the broad circles of society. We also see that without a comprehensive wage arrangement, at least without a wage increase corresponding to productivity growth, the desired goal, the sense of security of Hungarian young people, the country's growth cannot be achieved. In a broader perspective, if someone had finally examined our membership of the EU in this EP campaign, and put an EU balance sheet on the table that you promised in 2010, there was a government decision on this, and the EU balance was never here, they could never tell which sectors we were profitable and where we paid for EU membership, but if you had done so, you would have seen that the well-being of the Hungarians in the rankings of the Visegrad countries was the last, and, indeed, since accession, GDP per capita has increased by 57 percent in 15 years; this seems to be an impressive figure, but it is by far the lowest in the entire region. The Polish population is 100 per cent; we see 62 per cent of Czechs who enter the European Union at the same time; 94 per cent from us to the north, in Slovakia; 100 per cent is clear, as I have said, with an increase in measurements. Hungary is also lagging behind at regional level, but the future lacks complete social groups [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, the problems raised call for answers. It is our shared responsibility not to keep it that way. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-03-206	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, also came forward after the agenda addressd the climate situation in Hungary. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow members of the Government, you have all made a promise. Eight years ago, in the Eighth sentence of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, we were promised to take responsibility for our successors, so we protect the living conditions of generations after us through the careful use of our material, spiritual and natural resources. What have they done to fulfill their promise? Did they do anything at all? Since their promise, our country has been a victim of brutal destruction, forests, fields, rivers, waters, air, and I could tell you a long time. At the same time, our hospitals, schools, education, poor and completely controlled municipalities have fallen victim to destruction. Civil society is shattered, and they are currently trying to destroy the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. While this situation is being watched from the House's window, our children march here on Fridays, and their tables indicate that politics should change, not climate change, and that they should have a future at all, that is what they demand. And the responsibility is in our hands, only and only in our hands, we will decide when we vote for the law whether our children will have a viable future. We poison our environment with chemicals to such an extent that we use so much polluting energy and we live in such a wasteful way that we have created a polluting, disposable consumer society because of profit and comfort, and if we do not act now, all of this will soon destroy humanity. The fight against climate change and the protection of our environment is our common concern. This is a political issue, because it requires political will for systemic change, but it must not be a matter for individual parties, because the future of our own children is at stake. Over the past six months, not only scientists but also politicians and representatives who understand them around the world have said that we are not simply living in a climate change crisis, but this is a climate emergency. Let us hear the voice of our children, scientists, and more intelligent politicians in the world, and commit ourselves to the survival of this dying civilization, our children, and our grandchildren. In the coming years, just to give an example, 40 percent of the insect species on Earth are threatened with extinction. I do not have to say that this will lead to the collapse of the ecosystem as a whole and, consequently, a global food production crisis, the consequences of which are unpredictable. Climate change does not spare Hungary either. Our country heats up faster than the world average. 2018 was the hottest year since 1901. Last summer, the Danube water level was so low that it broke several records, a negative record. Previously considered tropical diseases occur more and more often here, and droughts threaten our food production. According to the report of the European Environment Agency, nearly 13 thousand people die every year in Hungary due to small particle pollution, a figure of 430,000 people per Europe. A bigger problem is that the number of diseases caused by air pollution is even greater. About two thirds of Hungary's energy supply comes from fossil fuels, and greenhouse gas emissions have also recently started to grow again. We would signal the skeptics of global warming if there were any more such among us that between 2002 and 2006, some 280 gigatons of ice disappeared in Greenland every year. In 14 years, the island lost nearly 4 meters of ice in the lower coastal areas. The Paris Climate Convention is a small success, but at the same time a failure on the other side is not enough to prevent the collapse of global civilization. According to scientists, we have about 10 to 12 years to do something to reverse the process. [[15.20]] Moreover, the nations do not even respect what they have promised in their commitments. Total greenhouse gas emissions continued to increase. Hungary is not at the forefront of this, either, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs declares that it is more important for the automotive industry than meeting climate targets. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] Of course, we need to make revolutionary changes right now in order to reverse this process. And we can say that we are small, Hungary is small in the world's greenhouse gas emissions, but, of course, everyone has to add their own share to this; we are not obliged to do it for others, but we are obliged to do it for ourselves. I therefore respectfully ask you to declare a climate emergency, as has already been done in many other countries, by the Hungarian Parliament, and to do everything we can for the future of our children. We are the ones who can help with this problem. We must fulfil the obligation imposed by the Fundamental Law on us in this regard, because the Fundamental Law says that we must say that the citizen and the state have a common goal of good life. Furthermore, we claim that every person has a right to life. Let all Hungarians have the right to a healthy life! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-03-208	Thank you, Congressman. János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-scheduled speech with the title "Slowly a hundred years of loneliness." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-03-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, One, if not the greatest thing to be thankful for is the Carpathian Basin, which surrounds us as a god - given natural unity. The Great Plain, where I come from, is the same Great Plain, which lies a few kilometers from New Snake Ridge across the current Romanian border. It's the same, but it's not. A lot of people have tried to tell me what Trianon means. There are painful thoughts orbiting around us in the air, because in words and numbers it is inexpressible. For someone, fear of death, fear of death, and for someone, the pain of giving up. We can only say one thing with absolute certainty: to whom it hurts is a Hungarian man. When I return to my homeland, I often drive near the Romanian border. As I approach the border, I'm always overwhelmed by anxiety. My breathing is getting heavy, my head is buzzing, and my pulse is rising. I've had a diplomatic passport in my pocket for a year, and the booths are already empty, but I'm still overwhelmed by childhood unrest, like when I had to stand in line for hours, and grumpy faces looked at the contents of the trunks. It's a feeling that that border is in the wrong place, and a sense that on the other side of it, I'll find a whole other world. Another world, which is said to be the 21st. We live in the century and that we have a country together, and this is Europe. Yes, for us Hungarians the XXI. We should have grown up by the century, but our common country, Europe, should have changed to its advantage. We should have gone further than the constant slumber and constant adjustment that we inherited from the Kádár system. We should have gone beyond the paternalism of the Hungarian entrepreneurial spirit. We should have moved past the pointless trenching, putting party politics ahead of friendship and kinship. So that's us. But what about Europe? With the Europe that put the knife on our neck 99 years ago, thanking us for holding off the Muslim flood. Europe, which killed its own sons and replaced them with immigrants during the two world wars. Yes, I am talking about the Europe that is again sitting on a powder keg because, for the sake of multiculturalism, it refused its Christian roots, and now it is taking down the family to organise consumer society instead from rootless individuals. Europe wakes up, some say, while others stress that our nation's alienated sons have now received dual citizenship and a cross-border national unity. That's false optimism. What kind of awakening are they talking about? Ladies and gentlemen, what kind of unity? Please note that Central Europe is being depopulated, our young people are emigrating, and that the middle class that stays home because of an adventure is barely having children! Let's stop deceiving. The Carpathian Basin is full of tensions, none of the states that have been put together for centuries have been worth the 100th anniversary, because it is not possible to face reality unpunished. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, This time next year, we will remember the signing of the Trianon peace dictate for the hundredth time. What's going to happen here in the hearts and minds? It is our shared responsibility to live the day that will soon dawn upon us in a year's time. I'm asking you to end an era. Let this internal civil war that has been depressing this country for decades end, let this constant campaign of hatred be stopped, which, last Sunday, has now received a great deal of fuel again. Let's shake off this self - enthusiast thinking. On the 100th anniversary of the Trianon disaster, I do not want to live in a country where man and Hungarian are the wolves of Hungarians. Let us learn to live together in peace and build a free, just, Christian Hungarian country together. I believe that this is what we must do, I believe, because this is how Hungary can be great again. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-03-210	Thank you very much, Congressman Stummer. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 11 June 2019. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good afternoon, good afternoon.
