u2019-03-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who are monitoring our work today. My fellow Members must have seen me waiting at the door for a few minutes. I was waiting because three of our fellow Members who had applied for a speech before the first four agendas were not in the Chamber, and I was waiting for them to be delayed because of some clock cut-off, and I was trying to bridge this technical situation, but it seems that the technical disadvantage has survived at the moment. I would like to inform you that on 1 March 2019 Member István Hollik stated that there is no conflict of interest against him, so that he can exercise his rights under his mandate and be entitled to remuneration. He has now applied for a speech before the agenda, and I apologise for calling him the first from the LMP Group instead of the third:, Europe will be green or not! Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-03-04-1	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In three months, there will be elections to the European Parliament, with a much higher stake than ever before. It is even bigger than what the majority of governments are campaigning, namely whether or not the Member States of the European Union are becoming immigrant countries. The stakes are that the European Union and its Member States can be put on the path required by the latest report of the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. There are only 10 to 12 years left to make radical economic policy changes. If reducing greenhouse gas emissions and preparing for adaptation tasks will not be a priority, processes will be irreversible, much faster than we think. Human civilization is at stake. I don't think I have much to tell you: the negative changes are already here. I can best describe the increase in food prices in potatoes, turnips or effects on our health as an increase in premature deaths due to respiratory diseases or hot flushes. There is a great deal of work to be done to combat climate change at a country level, but unfortunately that is not enough. Coordinated, rigorous and effective action is needed both in the European Union and at global level. This is why we need politicians in the European Parliament who not only understand the danger of climate change, but also engage in conflicts between the short-term interests of the economy and the long-term interests of people. They take on conflicts with polluting large companies and are able to make the necessary decisions. The most important issue in the European Parliament elections is finally taking climate change and its consequences seriously. We need a very strong and up-to-date political response. Ladies and gentlemen, At the last climate summit, I saw that despite feeling the effects of climate change on our skin, despite the threatening reports, governments are pursuing a procrastination policy. The level of voluntary commitments is the best example of this. Before the Katowice summit, the voluntary commitments of each country were summarised, but the sum of these is not enough to keep the temperature rise within three degrees Celsius. We're sitting on a sinking ship where most people are arguing about deep bottoms or vane sharks in the water, while they don't realize there's no lifeboat on the boat. Therefore, slowing down climate change and preparing for the impact of the next European Parliament elections should be the top priority. By the way, this includes the issue of climate refugees. But this will only happen if many politicians who take on this task will enter the European Parliament. It is time for the biggest polluting companies and countries to take responsibility for the situation, pollution of our environment and the exploitation of natural resources, and, as we can see, this is not happening. The European Union has so far accepted that economic growth is of paramount importance and that social justice and environmental sustainability can be subject to this. It is time to realize that this era is over, because mankind has used the resources of the Earth to the extreme, and we have no other planet. Climate law is needed in all the Member States of the European Union, which provides for the possibility of keeping the temperature rise within one and a half degrees Celsius. We need regulation, ladies and gentlemen, which does not reduce but increases the share of green surfaces and forests; agricultural reform that does not focus on the short-term exploitation of agricultural land, but on soil renewableity and food security; and an economic environment that affects the interests of people over the interests of multinational companies, which considers a healthy environment more important than profit interests. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the real stakes of the European Parliament elections. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.10]]
u2019-03-04-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that we can fully agree on the objectives, that climate protection efforts and action against the harmful effects of climate change are of common national interest, since the level of global warming can be a key issue for current generations of quality of life and health. At the same time, your views and our views differ among the instruments that are applicable to the common climate protection goal and which provide a hope for success. The fight against the negative effects of climate change and the path to sustainable development have become an increasingly important issue for our government in recent years. Our aim is to make Hungary one of the five most livable countries in Europe by 2030, and we cannot achieve this without meeting the objectives set in the area of climate protection. It should be mentioned that our country is responsible for 0.13 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions of the Earth and 1.4 percent of the emissions of the European Union. It is a fact that in recent years emissions have increased slightly in a context of economic growth, but it must also be said that while GDP exceeded pre-crisis levels in 2014 and 2015, greenhouse gas emissions remained far below our pre-crisis value in 2016, so we have achieved significant results in this area as well. Although we have little weight in the world's emissions, we know that in the interests of the future generation, we must also fight global problems with local means. The importance of sustainability efforts is indicated by the fact that we are currently working on the preparation of a sustainability law. In addition, a sustainability guide for municipalities will be drawn up in cooperation with the innovation portfolio and the National Sustainable Development Council. In cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, we are preparing a sustainability action plan focusing on international sustainability goals. Our commitment to climate protection shows that Hungary was the first of the European Union countries to sign the Paris Agreement in 2016 and that we have therefore updated the objectives and commitments of the Second National Climate Change Strategy in the spirit of the Paris Agreement. The strategy is intended to define the short, medium and long-term objectives mentioned above, and concrete measures will be included in the climate action plan with concrete stakeholders and financial resources. Within the framework of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Operational Programme, county climate platforms will be established and county and local climate change strategies will be developed, including local adaptation programmes. In addition, projects for climate protection purposes are expected to be worth several hundred billion forints between 2021 and 2030 within the framework of emission trading schemes. The issue of energy production is also inevitable here. Nearly 70 percent of Hungary's population lives in cities, while concentrated industrial production shows a growing trend and electric transport is gaining ground. Therefore, there is a need for core power-generating capacity that can produce the necessary power-generating power in all circumstances and achieve this in a carbon-neutral manner as much as possible. Maintaining Paks nuclear capacity will meet this objective safely and providing people with cheap electricity. As long as energy R &amp; D does not come up with solutions to ensure the storage of energy produced at a cheaper and more efficient scale, renewable energy will not be able to provide a realistic alternative to this under domestic conditions. In spite of this, Hungary has already achieved a 14.2 percent share of its share of energy consumption from renewable sources in 2016, as has already been said several times in one of these speeches, so we have already exceeded the 13 percent target of the European Union for 2020. If opposition politicians with green values really believe that we need a constructive European Union that really addresses climate protection, global climate change [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the fight against migration, which is also the key to long-term migration management, then, as a first step, stand out among the supporters of the European Union's policy on supporting migration rather than climate protection. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] and in this case all climate policy objectives will be achieved. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Since Gergely Arató, Timea Szabó and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély are still not in the Chamber, the next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr László Szászfalvi, who has applied for a speech on the agenda entitled The Future of Europe. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The champions of democracy in Brussels are offended if someone dares to criticize them, especially from Central Europe, Hungary. With mimosa sensitivity, they view themselves as infallible, the ideas they represent, and their self-destructive policies as incontrovertible. They believe that they can do anything without any responsibility or consequence. The United Kingdom has been released from the EU and millions of illegal migrants have been allowed into Europe. However, we believe that in such a fateful historical situation, we have a moral obligation to discuss Europe's future and to participate in a debate. Therefore, no matter how much the role of offended kindergarteners is played by Brussels bureaucrats who consider themselves unattractive, we will continue and continue to state our firm position. The government and the ruling parties have been representing the interests of the Hungarian people in this crucial debate for years and today, who have expressed their clear and clear will in a number of legitimate ways: they do not want Hungary to be an immigrant country and Europe to be an immigrant continent. The current pro-immigration leadership in Brussels has opened Europe's doors to millions of illegal migrants without asking people, but still wants to bring more immigrants to Europe. [[13.20]] To this end, they will do everything they can to find a good partner in the pro-immigration opposition. This threatens our safety and the lives of our children. The stakes are therefore the future of Europe. Therefore, all Hungarians have the right to know what Brussels is up to. For this information action, the European Commission has denied what plans lie in the drawers. Dear Parliament, In its seven-point response, the Government's statements are supported by public statements, statements and minutes of vote available to all. The compulsory resettlement quota has not been withdrawn. According to Brussels' official opinion, the European Commission has proposed a permanent EU resettlement framework to coordinate European efforts in the long term. This intention was confirmed by the Commissioner for Migration in Brussels on 15 January 2019. Brussels would override the border protection rights of the Member States by extending Frontex's powers. This would weaken the sovereignty of nation states and not stop them, but manage illegal migration. It's more than irresponsible. Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 December 2018, the European Parliament voted for the introduction of migrant visas for the second time, which is supported by the European Commission. This would be an invitation to many millions of immigrants from Bianko. The European Commission itself does not deny giving more money to organisations supporting migration. The European Parliament decided on 17 January to pay them a total of HUF 570 billion. At the same time, financial support from Member States that are opposed to immigration would be reduced in several ways. The Commission is exposing itself by admitting that the allocation of cohesion funds takes into account the number of people who have come to the country since 2013 outside the EU's borders. This is no longer a matter of catching up European regions, and everything would be subject to support for illegal migration. Tens of thousands of immigrants are constantly receiving credit cards filled with money worth tens of billions of HUF, and pilot projects would legalize migration. In summary, there is a message value in the statement of the President of the European Commission - , the possibility of legal immigration into the EU must be created. Dear House, We Christian democrats believe that Europe must wake up, on the other hand, and finally sober up from the pink stupor of open society. On the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, we must protect the values, traditions, Christian culture, indigenous national communities that have kept them for thousands of years. Targeted family support programmes should be implemented that can stop population loss. We want a safe and strong Europe, and we support the government in this fight. Thank you for your patient attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government launched its information campaign because many people in Brussels want to deny these plans, and the reaction to the information campaign we launched was that they denied these plans once again. But, as you said, honourable Member, it is possible to follow from point to point and day how the European Parliament, the European Commission, has taken a position on which issue. Now, however, all they do is try to deny them. I would say a little more radically than the Member said in relation to Britain, since they did not let Britain go, but drove her away. After all, the kind of arrogant policy that ignores the interests of the Member States, national sovereignty, rhetoric, style, education that can be described as Jean-Claude Juncker or Frans Timmermans was not acceptable to the proud English after a while. If we quote only half-phrases from the members of the European Commission, such as what we Central Europeans are sending on BBC radio, Frans Timmermans, that societies everywhere in the world will become diverse in the future, this is the future of the world, so Central European countries will have to get used to it. How does anyone come to tell us Hungarians what we have to get used to and what we don't? This will be decided by the Hungarians when they believe, but it is not necessary that a member of the European Commission of a party with representative representatives of less than 10 percent will tell us what we need, what we need to accept and what we do not have to accept. Several decisions have been made on resettlement quotas. It is enough to quote the statement of the last committee member, Dimitris Avramopoulos, on 15 January 2019, in which he said that they were all committed. And we know it, because numbers have already seen how much to take in. Angela Merkel made a clear reference to the weakening of border protection when he said that Jean-Claude Juncker had a good proposal supported by him on 12 September 2018 to give up the national competences of the states at the external borders of the Union, in Hungarian, to give up their border defence competences by the countries and entrust them to him, who has never protected a border, and he has a few thousand people, while the protection of the Hungarian border requires thousands of people. On 11 December, you referred to the migrant visa and adopted a decision on the manyth time. On 17 January, organisations supporting migration decided to triple their support and to spend an overall amount of HUF 570 billion. So what we spend in Klebelsberg Center over a year, they want to use it to encourage migration, just to show you the scale: it's equal to a hundred thousand teachers' salaries for a year. With regard to the migrant card, it can be said that it has already been recognised in their rebuttal statement that 60,000 have received such cards; and that pilot projects in relation to African countries are also included in a resolution published on 12 September 2018 so that everyone can work from Africa in Europe. And we are living in the government every day trying to reduce the amount of subsidies paid to different groups in need, but this is also the case with agricultural subsidies, and those who do not accept this are constantly threatened. It is unacceptable for us to take funds from those who are most in need. It is therefore clear that the European Commission is afraid of people and is afraid of people's opinions, so try to deny these plans. On the other hand, we can see that these five years are a failure not only because of Britain's departure, but also because the European Commission has not been able to represent the position of the European people. On the other hand, the visible process in European politics is that the classic right-wing, left-wing, Christian democrats, conservatives, social democrats, liberals, greens, this kind of political division will be less and less pronounced, and the position on the most important European issue, immigration, is that one would encourage immigration, protect the sovereignty of a pro-immigration politician, or the sovereignty of states, which will best divide European policy into one or another camp. However, let me briefly draw your attention to a threat to immigration that we talked less about. If we look at the WHO's latest detection of infectious diseases brought to Europe by immigration and immigration, we can see that since 2015 the proportion of measles diseases in Europe has tripled. And what is scary about this is that measles not only appears in countries, such as the Balkan countries, where they were already known, but there is France and Italy among the most infected five countries. And not because he has a bad vaccination system, not because he spends little on health care, but because immigration carries such dangers for the people who live there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, How long does power take advantage of each of us's patience? Mr Péter Jakab asked for a speech before the agenda entitled "Jobs Group." There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On December 12, the day you stabbed a nation in the back with the slave law, I had the pleasure of sitting in Viktor Orbán's chair of HUF 1 million,246 thousand. [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I had the misfortune of looking directly at Prime Minister's eyes. Well, what I saw, to put it mildly, was terrifying. It was terrifying because I wasn't looking back at a statesman. [[Intercoms, noise.]] [[Intercoms, noise.]] Not a politician worried about the fate of the country, but a compulsively grinning, glassy-eyed, confused person who sees George Soros everywhere. (intercoms, noise.) [[13.30]] The man on the street would say he must be crazy. All I said was, Jesus Christ, this man runs a country. I wouldn't trust him with my bike, let alone my countrymen. And he's sitting at the government, leading his own people behind his back to this country against the wall. In addition, the Prime Minister's condition has clearly deteriorated since then, as he has always thought only of us, opposition representatives, as agents of Soros. But now he thinks everyone who doesn't bow to the system is a Soros agent. Soros-Agent is the teacher, Soros-Agent is the nurse, Soros-Agent is the factory worker and the college student, everyone. However, the point is that the slave law was not voted by George Soros, the slave law was voted by you, and the Hungarian worker was thrown to the multinationals, the Orbán barons or the Hungarian state as meat! With the slave law, you didn't just tell me that you could work overtime for 50 days a year, 50 days a year or 50 days a year. [[Sic! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Math is going well.]] the Hungarian workers, but they also told us that anything can be done with the Hungarian worker. And the multinationals took the page. In Esztergom, Suzuki fired an employee who wanted to create a union. In Miskolc, workers on strike for wage increases were herded into pens like animals. In Dunaújváros, the government's strategic partner threatens to cut off workers who are about to strike. But of course, what would we expect from the multinationals if Tamás Deutsch told them that Hungarian workers like to work overtime? What can we expect from the multinationals when you employ civil servants as slaves, even taking the cafeteria away from them? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 30 percent wage increase.]] You cannot say a good word to the Hungarian worker. You can do one thing: Hungarian workers are hired by Soros if you do not want to work as slaves in your own country. I'm just asking you, do you really think that the Soros tenant who works alongside the factory line from vision to blindness? He's the Soros hirer? Or is it the Soros tenant who, 30 years ago, sat here in Parliament with George Soros' money, and has been living around the people's neck ever since? I think he's the Soros hirer. You think that today in this country all evils are caused by a 90-year-old old man. That's what we see on the posters, isn't it? And God forbid, my soul, I am ready to protest even against George Soros, if he is to blame for everything. Just answer the question, but honestly, did George Soros tell you to take the cafeteria away from the workers? Did George Soros tell you to smash the housing register system? Did György Soros tell you to kill 24,000 Hungarians a year who do not have adequate health care? Did George Soros tell you to let in 86,000 migrants to make cheap labor? Did George Soros tell you to make the Hungarians the second poorest people in the European Union? Soros told you to take the Hungarians' money and give it to Lőrinc Mészáros? Did Soros tell you to vote for the slave bill? No, fellow Members, you did this on your own. The destruction of Hungary seems to be a fidesz innovation. Just don't run behind George Soros's back. Don't run behind the Soros posters. Stand up in front of the Hungarian workers, look them in the eye, and explain to them how good the slave law is and how good it is to work for you! Believe me, you will not be greeted by the glassy look of Viktor Orbán, but by the anger and determination of Hungarian workers, the determination that led the audiences to victory in Győr. In Győr, strikers won the pay raise. There was no victory in Miskolc for the strikers, but there was a lynch mob, gentlemen. Which shows we're out of patience. So I'm telling you, Miskolc and Győr should be a warning to you. There may be a lot of spineless people in the fidesz benches, but next to the factory line, there's a lot of spinal workers. Don't wait for these people to hit the table, because once the emotions in this country are loose, it will be a little short to write on the posters that Hungary will perform better! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-10	Dear House, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to react briefly, in a somewhat moderate manner. We are aware that you have been sent in by the labour-rejecting left-wing parties as the opposing spokesperson. This is also apparent from the fact that this speech could have been said by the absent Mrs Bangóné and any of the members of the Gyurcsány Party who were chosen at all times. I'm glad you brought it up that you sat in the Prime Minister's chair a few weeks ago. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that obstruction of voting is illegal. The laws also apply to Members, they also apply to opposition representatives, and they also apply to opposition representatives entering the new parliament. You are also subject to the laws of Hungary. So on behalf of all of us, I would ask you to keep these. As far as the laws are concerned, the last few months, the last few weeks, have proven that your claims have all proved to be lies. You have tried to mislead the Hungarians about working time, about when they pay overtime, and also about whether they are volunteers for overtime or not. By the way, the last few years have proved that Hungarians can work hard. 700,000 new jobs have been created. But to approach this in a different way, there was always a debate, when the Code of Work was amended in Hungary, the left-wing representatives were always shouting the same way, as you have done the result of more than 700 thousand new jobs and constantly increasing wages, which does not mean that there is nowhere else to raise the Hungarian wages. As far as the Hungarians are concerned, you've insulted a lot of people here, a lot of politicians, a lot of congressmen. Allow me to express my opinion here that you also resembled left-wing parties in insulting Hungarians in a series. At a convention, for example, your party president said that Hungarians are servile. Then they also said that the Hungarians couldn't decide whether a part of the Hungarians represented A or B positions, and they were voting according to where they received 300 HUF more. Hungarians across the border were compared with Indians with noble simplicity, who could be bought with a handful of glass beads. And then recently, it turns out that the elderly are called a butt-back commando, for which no one from Jobbik has ever apologized. Where's the apology? If you have such an adult sense of morality, where is your apology, Your Honour? [[György Szilágyi: Ask Cubatov. The president's ringing the bell. å Intercoms, noise.]]
u2019-03-04-12	Congressman Szilágyi!
u2019-03-04-13	One last point, which is not only for Jobbik, but also for the left, is about your joint cooperation, which is also very clear on the basis of your speech. Don't think that Hungarian public life is like Men in Black, where the red light comes, and everyone will forget what they said about each other before and what they did. Now they either take seriously what they have said about each other over the years, or they gradually give up the remaining pieces of their own principles. In any case, we believe that the past of the two parties will foretell their future together. I would also like to conclude by saying that a few days ago you were abandoned by a Member, a Member, who said that cooperation with post-communists was contrary to her conviction and upbringing. [[György Szilágyi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] You were abandoned by a Member who held the Molino in the front row on Parliament's steps a few weeks ago. Well, so much for your moral crisis. So, if you're going to hire me, let me ask you one thing... [[György Szilágyi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell. It's a lot of noise.]]
u2019-03-04-14	Congressman Szilágyi!
u2019-03-04-15	Don't hire Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left-wing opposition. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group of the Fidesz Group, asked for a speech before the agenda entitled Our current affairs. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2019-03-04-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One would also like to take part in the previous debate, but there is something else here that can be regarded as a current matter, and, if I may, I would remain on this logic. The parties are preparing for an election in the European Parliament, and last week, the Democratic Coalition made a list. I particularly regret that Ferenc Gyurcsány is not here today. Not that he was here at any other time; for example, when we had to vote on raising the care fee, we could not find him in the room, but perhaps today would have been even more justified, since there are some things that we should have discussed with him in public. The head of the Democratic Coalition list was Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, who of course is not a new person. We know him, and we know what he wants. Although presented as new, he said nothing new; what he had said so far was already said by DK. And what DK said was voted down several times by the Hungarian people. [[13.40]] Ferenc Gyurcsány wants united European states, as well as the elite in Brussels, nothing new. Nor is it new that Mrs Gyurcsány will not represent the Hungarian interest in Brussels, but will represent the interests of Brussels in Hungary. We are not surprised to recall that Gyurcsány's company received hundreds of millions of money from Brussels from European taxpayers' money. Ferenc Gyurcsány found that last week there were no pro-immigration plans. Nor are we surprised at this, while Peter Niedermüller, his party partner, voted in favour of them. The EP report on the introduction of migrant visas was voted in late 2018, yes, DKs too. DK also drew up the proposal, Péter Niedermüller personally, on the asylum office in Brussels, which could override the asylum decisions taken in the Member State's competence, thereby excluding the right from national competence. The same people will vote for the resettlement quota in November 2017. Mrs Gyurcsány also says that there are no pro-immigration politicians, while her husband says in 2016 that Hungary would benefit specifically if he accepted immigrants. The president of DK, the husband, is proud to accept the EU quota, which Mrs Gyurcsány says is not. Ferenc Gyurcsány asks us to believe that there are no quotas, there are no pro-immigration politicians, while Antonio Tajani, President of the EP, said in December that the EP is ready to accept the mechanism of the compulsory resettlement quota, which they believe is not. So we believe Ferenc Gyurcsány as much as we believe her husband. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungarian people are not stupid, and they can see through this situation. This is just one of the hundreds of tricks; one more cunning by Gyurcsány, who uses his wife this time to achieve his power goals. Indeed, as Minister of State said, Ferenc Gyurcsány is the leader of the opposition, and he will do everything in his power to strengthen this position, and he will use his wife this time to realize their fever dream about the United States of Europe; translated: to re-invade the difficult sovereignty of the Hungarians. Dear Enemies, Even if we look away from all of this, and perhaps that would be more to you: what would you say if Viktor Orbán's wife's company got the power cheaper? Or what would you say if the Union were to fund the company in which it was involved? [[Dr. László György Lukács: Brothers of his strómanes, perhaps of his wife!]] What would you say if it turned out today that the infamous Bulgarian criminal with whom Mrs. Ferenc Gyurcsány was in a company was captured? What would you say if the wife were to hide from all this possible responsibility behind the immunity of the European Parliament's mandate? You would set this Parliament on fire, and perhaps you would be right. What you now consider to be an ally with [[György Szilágyi: I would have liked to have been accounted for!]] Selfies and fairies, and with whom they are marching down the street and taking an oath together, that man is all over them or preparing for them. Ferenc Gyurcsány wasn't brave enough to come here and discuss this with him. This is your ally, this is your leader! I have the good news about the political debate on the European United States, and we do not have to decide and conduct it here, and on 26 May Hungarians will be able to decide on it. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We also read that Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife opened a flag and announced a program. This is practically the programme of strengthening bureaucracy in Brussels, and it is not surprising that in the case of the Gyurcsány family, there is a serious family tradition in order to serve all kinds of unions against the interests of Hungarians. By the way, the programme we have just announced was very likely to be announced in one respect, because the party president and his top family business had received hundreds of millions of mandates from Brussels earlier. Therefore, no one should be surprised at the fact that the black belt represents a bureaucracy-enhancing position at home. On the other hand, our political community would send to Brussels those who represent Hungary there, not bureaucracy back home. This is an important difference, and the Hungarians will be able to decide which way they support at the end of May. I would like to say one more thing, which is part of this: a debate with the European Commission opened last week on the government's information action, and the Commission took a position, although it seemed to be aimed at disproved government statements. On the other hand, the legitimacy of the proposals has been confirmed without exception, which is why we say that the European Commission's resolution is equivalent to a detailed confession, because they do not deny that immigrants will continue to be allocated compulsory resettlement quotas in Europe. Their defense is that the negotiations are still under way. That is true, but this does not change the fact that both the Commission and the European Parliament want mandatory distribution. It is also said that the strengthening of Frontex would not result in a partial infringement of border protection rights, while the German Chancellor clearly interprets it that way. A few days ago, Brussels claimed that there was a zero-plan for migrant visas, which was used to say that it was a zero-plan, while the Commissioner for Migration in charge of the field urged it to be introduced years ago, and the European Parliament voted for it. Nor is it denied that more money would be given to political activist groups supporting immigration, which would be difficult to deny, since there is a 570 billion-dollar commitment to support in the draft budget for the next seven years. Then there's the question of migrant cards. The Commission has acknowledged the existence of these, at the same time claiming that they do not encourage migration. Of course it would increase immigration, of course, if millions could think that if they got to Europe, they would receive cards filled with money, credit cards filled with money, credit cards that European citizens could not possibly hope for! In January alone, according to official summaries, over 60,000 received this. In the resolution on African pilot projects, because there is one, there is a very instructive wording here, which is most clearly about legalising illegal migration so far, so they would not stop it, but legalize it. This is a huge difference in perspective between the institutions in Brussels and us. As far as the financial aspects are concerned, they cannot deny that in May 2018, the European Commission officially published principles on the basis of which it would make it a defining aspect when EU funds are distributed. And then we didn't even talk about the fact that rejection of a mandatory quota would also result in a financial penalty. So, here we are, facing plans that are all in the same direction, that would increase, that would encourage immigration to Europe, and that would give rise to processes whose consequences are inaccessible. Since the risks of these plans cannot be exaggerated, we insist that there should be an honest dialogue about them, even if this involves heated debates. We believe that the future of Europe is worth revealing its intentions. And as far as our intentions are concerned, we want a Europe that builds on its Christian traditions, supports its own communities and, above all, is able to defend itself. We believe that this is also in Hungary's interests. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Since Mr Timea Szabó, Mr Gergely Arató and Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who has applied for a speech before the agenda, are still not in the Chamber, we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-03-04-21	Dear Parliament, Today, Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: László Varju, DK; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Péter Harrach, KDNP, László Böröcz, Fidesz. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: Zoltán Demeter, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. [[13.50]]
u2019-03-04-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that on 26 February 2019, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs informed the President of the Parliament that she had quit the parliamentary group of Jobbik, so that the number of Jobbik's group is now 21. She will continue her work as an independent Member. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that in December 2018 MEPs Bernadett Szél, Ákos Hadházy, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and László Varju reported violations of their immunity. The Speaker of Parliament has handed these over to the immunity committee for examination. At its meeting on 18 February 2019 the immunity committee discussed the issue. The motions for infringement of immunity have not received a majority in the committee, given that the acts applied by the security service of MTVA do not constitute Article 74 of the Parliament Act. § (1) of the Act, so in this case the violation of immunity is conceptually excluded. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the re-appointing the President of the National Bank of Hungary. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-23	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Articles 9 (four) (c) and 41 (three) of the Fundamental Law and CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. Law No. 10. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I reappointed Dr. György Matolcsy as President of the Hungarian National Bank for a period of six years with effect from 4 March 2019. Budapest, 27 February 2019 Sincerely: János Áder
u2019-03-04-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate President György Matolcsy and wish him every success in his work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that the Parliament's quorum was scheduled for 14 hours and 15 minutes, and since oaths are to take place, I will accordingly order a recess of 14 hours and 15 minutes. (Recess: 13.53-14.15 a.m.) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2019-03-04-25	Ladies and gentlemen, It's 2:15 p.m., and I'm asking you to take your seats so we can continue our work. Please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine after you have taken your seat. Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we decide on the proposal for an exception. The government initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/4998 concerning the successful implementation of the Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020 and the provisions relating to certain international major events. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure was taken; the Government initiated a joint debate as the first item on tomorrow's meeting; and, thirdly, it proposed that the summary amendment proposal be decided and the final vote should take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear House, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. at least 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you accept T/4998? Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 116 votes in favour, 20 against and without abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 5:19 p.m. today. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by making personal proposals. First, a member of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary will be elected and sworn, followed by the election and oath of four members of the Hungaricum Committee, followed by the election of members and officials of the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, The election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank follows. Allow me to pay tribute to the Hungarian National Bank's current leaders and members of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank, Mr.Gyula Pleschinger and his family, as well as to the invited guests. The Economic Committee preparing for the election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank has heard the candidate, and in his proposal, acting under the authority of the Hungarian National Bank Act, Gyula Pleschinger proposes to re-elected him as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank with effect from 5 March. The President of the Parliament put forward a proposal for a resolution on this matter S/5025. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The candidate's biography was available to all of us on the website. Dear House, The member of the Monetary Council shall be elected by Parliament for six years by the vote of the majority of the Members present. The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for a resolution without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mr. Gyula Pleschinger as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Mr.Gyula Pleschinger to the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank by 119 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. [[14.20]] Now it is the solemn oath of the elected official and the signature of the oath papers. I ask Mr. Gyula Pleschinger to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I'll ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read the words of the oath. And I ask the Honourable Parliament to stand up and listen to the oath together, as is customary. [[The people in this room stand up. Gyula Pleschinger steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-03-04-26	I, Gyula Pleschinger, accept that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its laws and keep them; I will exercise my position as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-03-04-27	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Parliament to take its place. Mr. Attila Móring, please prepare the oath papers for signature. And I ask Mr. Gyula Pleschinger to sign them in front of the notary's small table. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Gyula Pleschinger and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Gyula Pleschinger was first congratulated by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, then by Máté Kocsis, Péter Harrach, Miklós Soltész, Imre Ritter and György Szilágyi.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate you on the election of Mr Pleschinger Gyula, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, Now it is up to four members of the Hungaricum Committee to choose. President of the Parliament S/5017. has presented its proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council. XXX of 2012 on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums Act No. 14 According to Article 4 of the Hungaricum Committee, four members are delegated by the Parliament. On the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, the Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr Sándor Lezsák and Mr István Simicskó, on the basis of pro-government nomination, Mr Zoltán Magyar, on the basis of opposition nomination, and on the proposal of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, Mr Varga Simeon initiates a Bulgarian ethnic advocate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal by 140 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath and the oath papers will be signed. I would like to ask Vice-President Sándor Lezsák, Mr István Simicskó and Mr Zoltán Magyar, Mr Varga Simeon, to come to the center of the room and take their oath. I'd like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read the words of the oath. Members of the Parliament are asked to stand up and listen to the oath as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Sándor Lezszak, Dr. István Simicskó, Zoltán Magyar and Szimeon Varga step into the center of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-03-04-28	Me, Sándor Lezsák/Dr. István Simicskó/Magyar Zoltán/Varga Simeon I pledge that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its laws and keep them; I will exercise my position as a member of the Hungaricum Committee for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-03-04-29	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Parliament to take its place. I would like to ask Mr. József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature according to our custom. And I ask the elected members of the Hungaricum Committee to sign it. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates the elected members and gives copies of the signed oath document. The elected members of the Hungaricum Committee were first congratulated by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, then by Péter Harrach, Imre Ritter, Máté Kocsis, Miklós Soltész, György Szilágyi and Lóránt László Krisztes.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate Mr.Sándor Lezsák, István Simicskó, Zoltán Magyar and Mr. Varga Simeon on their election on behalf of the Parliament and myself. [[14.30]]
u2019-03-04-30	Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on Commission officials and members. S/5024 put forward by the President My fellow Members have all been able to get to know the proposal on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary.
u2019-03-04-31	Dear Parliament, , 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Parliamentary decision Point 1 is amended as follows: The Parliament shall elect Antal Csárdi, LMP, instead of Krisztina Hohn, LMP, Vice-President of the Committee; Antal Csárdi, LMP, as a member of the Committee instead of Antal Hohn Krisztina, LMP. 2. Point 2 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: The National Assembly in the Legislative Committee Mrs.Loránt Hegedűs is elected by Márta Demeter, LMP, Vice-President of the Committee, Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik, instead of Loránt Hegedűs Loránt, independent and elected as a member of the Committee. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2019-03-04-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/5024. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 134 votes in favour, not by vote, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now it's 2:32 p.m., and we're moving on to interpellation and immediate questioning. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. You have the right to know: the government also provides chocolates for immigrants! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm asking you, on behalf of the government, who's going to respond to the interpellation. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. On behalf of the Prime Minister, on the proposal of the competent Minister of EMMI, Mr Miklós Kásler, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-33	Mr President, Dear House, Although in recent weeks a number of statements in the category of political science fiction have been made, whether from the President of the Central Bank or from the Prime Minister, we just think that until 2030, Austria's level of development or the MNB's competitiveness package will be added to 110 thousand annual live births, which I would very much support, I will only question its reality within a few years, so we must say that there is a point in the demographic package, which is at least to be supported, worthy of support; among other things, because Jobbik has proposed in this House the expansion of CSOK, broadening and extending the family home-building discount, not only in the case of used property or home expansion, but also in terms of preferential credit, as is now included in the government's plans, but also in the amount of support. So there is still a gap between us and the government's braked foam and Jobbik's full solution, especially because at a second point there is some debate or disagreement between us. This is that, in the case of hundreds of millions of villas, Jobbik would in no way support making available the benefit weight of the CSOK. We do not want to support the oligarchs, not the luckiest social groups, but we want to provide solutions to typical Hungarian life situations for the start of a young family. For the desired child, the space needed is clearly easier to obtain by offering a home-building discount, but it does not require hundreds of millions of villas. This was therefore the second point of discussion. The third one, however, is quite insatiable and quite harsh, because if anyone clicks on his phone that he is looking for the documentation needed to apply for a CSOK, so he is looking for the paperwork that is necessary for someone to have access to this discount, I have it on my phone, and it can be seen that at one of the commercial banks they are listing documents that are not required for a supported person of a Hungarian citizen and that they are long-term detailing how emigrated persons can obtain CSOK, how they can achieve this discount. Secretary of State, my question is simple, concise and brief. Are you aware that, in the course of the forthcoming CSOK amendment, you may also be admitted to CSOK by emigrated persons, and for how long do you intend to continue this outrageous practice? Are you personally able to give your name to persons with immigrant status to take a family home-building discount instead of Hungarian citizens, or do you support my suggestion that CSOK may be admitted only under the conditions of Hungarian citizens and I have told you that this discount serves the Hungarian future, and not various government intentions that do not appear at the word level, but in the background? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-34	Thank you, Congressman. As I have already said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Jobbik's faction seems to be losing weight almost every month here in Parliament, and their membership is running out, and they have been recognized behind closed doors, and they have been talking about a wave of exits at management meetings, so every day we have to make more hairy suggestions or comments here in Parliament than ever before. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Look at this...]] They're trying to expand their ravaged camp a little bit. On the issue of immigration, Jobbik has an identity problem, since your group leader, Márton Gyöngyösi, told a foreign security policy paper that there is no choice but to give political asylum to immigrants from Syria. Your group leader also said that international treaties are not respected by the Hungarian Government when the various Brussels instructions are not implemented in connection with immigration. Your group leader has also said to this international newspaper that the admission of migrants is necessary in several cases, and this is also required by the international treaties, which Hungary has signed, and Hungary has an international obligation to do so. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Answer the question!]] So in such cases, your group leader cancels his liberal lesson when he speaks to foreign newspapers, and here he is speaking to foreign newspapers, so they speak, they do not participate in a referendum campaign, the national consultation is attacked against quotas here, also within the walls of Parliament. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't lie!]] Sometimes, through meetings, they don't vote for the amendment of the basic law, and finally, when voters make a clear decision, they change their position, then they dance back, and they're with the Balliberal side. So as many times as there are so many opinions, Márton Gyöngyösi said at the Jobbik season opening event that he does not support the construction of fences in Europe, because that is unacceptable and only causes conflict in countries. As regards your specific question, honourable Member, you can read the legislation, I do not know what side you were looking at. Of course, refugee and protected statuses cannot benefit from this benefit, there are conditions: employment, no criminal record, no public debt. These are required by the legislation, but what you refer to, please do not be misleading and do not interpret this unduly expanded. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian shows his phone.]] I hope you do not mean that Hungarians across the border would want to use this in Hungary. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame on you!]] We know that you are one of those people with Gábor Vona and Márton Gyöngyösi who did not vote for the dual citizenship of people across the border here in Parliament, but do not experience this remorse later. At the same time, I believe that our joint success is that more than 95 thousand Hungarian families have used the benefits of home-building for families, and we have been able to help nearly 400 thousand people. 230,000 children were born and we were able to create a new, more comfortable home, and these families committed to the birth of 45,000 children in the coming years. [[14.40]] In total, we were able to spend HUF 275 billion to make families more comfortable and to have more children if this is in their plans. We only spent 53 billion forints on VAT refunds. If you look at how many people have used the HUF 10 million very discounted loan by the end of last year, you can see that we have been able to provide such assistance for HUF 133 billion. And you know that the Prime Minister presented in his annual speech the plans for further expansion of the CSOK. These proposals will soon be on Parliament's table. I trust that you will be a little braver there, come in, vote and support it, not as you were not here in Parliament during the vote on dual citizenship. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to accept the State Secretary's reply. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Yes!]] Here you go.
u2019-03-04-37	Mr President, Dear House, I find it a shame for the Hungarian Parliament that a secretary of state who is so unprepared and so uncoordinated, showing masculine conduct, can answer a fair-willed opposition question. Any... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off. Peter Cherry: Oh, my God!]] Legally...
u2019-03-04-38	Congressman! Congressman! I believe that you had no legal basis for making such a comment on the Secretary of State, and I am therefore obliged to warn you. So please apologize. [[Intercoms from Jobbik benches, among other things: Why not? Let's not joke. György Szilágyi: Why not?]]
u2019-03-04-39	I would like to tell Mr State Secretary that when we brought in a package of other preferences for our Hungarian brothers across the border in the Carpathian Basin, you voted against it. [[Interview from the governing parties' benches: What? Dr. Bence Rétvári's intervention.]] We pushed these packages. And if we're talking about who's running a two-gallon policy on immigrant status, your prime minister signed a closing document on the implementation of quota-like solutions. Your government, your team, let 86,000 people in here, with a bond, protected, family reunion, in other ways. [[György Szilágyi: True!]] My question was simple. You're giving these people CHOK the same way, all the time? And if you're so uninformed that you can't reach the bank's information material in force through Google at the moment. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Look at the law...]] I'll show you these. [[He's showing up his phone.]] I think it's a shame and a shame that you've been doing this bullshit. You did not answer my question, so the question remains open and the question is whether this government is supporting migrants with a CSOK or not. Shame on you! [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Intercoms from the same place: Yes! That's right. Dániel Z. Kárpát goes to Dr. Bence of Rétvári in his seat as Secretary of State. Constant interruptions from the benches of Jobbik and the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-40	Congressman! I think that this is not the general way of speaking in Parliament, who should be ashamed and who should not be ashamed. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] I think you should look at yourself on this, Congressman. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I therefore ask this House to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 117 votes to 21, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. New Day, new terminations with the title of the new chapter on the health failure of Fidesz. Mr Sándor Szabó would have the floor, but he is not here. [[Péter Cseresnyés: He doesn't work...]] And if it is not present, according to the rules of the house, the interpellation shall be considered withdrawn. Dear House, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology with the title of "Vocational Training 0.0" in the dead end. Congressman Gergely Arató would like to take the floor. Congressman is not present, so the interpellation should be considered withdrawn. Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, Why doesn't the government publish OLAF reports in all cases? It's an address. Congressman Bence Tordai is not present, and his interpellation is therefore considered withdrawn. Member Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Could the financial support of left-wing parties continue with the funds cheated by the socialist lawyer? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Kovács, please.
u2019-03-04-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The crime of Csaba Czeglédy, the former lawyer of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is now known to everyone throughout the country, has been committed to harm others. In the colour of the balliberal cooperation, the representatives of the local government in Szombathely have been charged with the crime of fiscal fraud, which has caused a particularly significant financial disadvantage, following a lengthy investigation by the attorney general of Csongrád County, as well as the misdemeanor of the use of false private documents. Lawyer Czeglédy, as a registered Human Operator Zrt. in Szombathely. President and Managing Director of his Board of Directors, established a criminal organisation in 2011 that sought to circumvent his company's obligation to pay taxes. This criminal organization has created a chain of invoicing at the bottom of which is the school cooperative, mid-level invoicing companies, and at the top level, Human Operator Zrt., under the leadership of Czeglédy itself. He's in position. The M.O. was the following. School cooperatives did not fulfil their obligation to report general traffic taxes and personal income taxes. However, if this legal obligation has been fulfilled, the tax has not been paid. It can also be concluded from the facts of the crime that Altus Zrt. is linked to the former Socialist Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány. As a result of the actions financed by a politician in Szombathely, the Hungarian state suffered more than HUF 6.2 billion damage. Based on the information provided by the various media, information is available that 9 defendants have admitted their accomplices and have also given incriminating testimony regarding Csaba Czeglédy. These statements may serve as strong evidence to support what was described in the indictment. In this way, despite the protection of the Balliberal politician, it seems that the state's criminal power and the potential sanctions cannot escape. His former lawyer on the left is a repeat offender, since he was already convicted of a similar act in 2003. I believe that this lawyer has done not only to be condemned through the glasses of the law, but also to entail very serious moral disapproval. In addition to the Hungarian state, Czeglédy has damaged the weakest and most defenseless groups of society, such as students and pensioners, who have simply not been paid their earned wages in return for their work. The lawyer, who represents himself as a victim and as a victim and as a political abuser, but who has committed moral unscrupulousness, still enjoys the fondness of left-wing parties to this day, while the Hungarian government alone has been willing to stand up for the victims, and so on. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That he began to compensate the victims as soon as possible. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the above, I would like to ask how the financial support of left-wing parties could have been carried out from the amount cheated by the socialist lawyer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, We all know that the past decades of the left have been about corruption scandals. We also remember György Hunvald, who, as mayor of Erzsébetváros, was arrested in the proceedings against him in advance, and then was accused of high-value fraud, forgery, bribery and the establishment of a criminal organization in connection with real estate. I could mention the name of Miklós Hagyó, BKV Zrt. In addition to the case of his former CEO, Miklós Hagyó was found guilty of crimes of misdemeanor abuse and mistreatment by the Szeged Court of Justice. In addition, consider the story famous as the Sukoro case, in which Miklós Tátrai was convicted of attempted misappropriation of a particularly high financial disadvantage. Ferenc Gyurcsány was also involved in the case. You said yourself that Miklós Tatrai went to prison instead. The essence of the Sukoro case is that during the Gyurcsány government, an Israeli-Hungarian businessman concluded an exchange agreement with the Hungarian National Asset Manager representing the Hungarian state. If the agreed land exchange transaction had been completed, the Hungarian State would have suffered damage of HUF 1.2 billion according to the judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, The left talks about the fight against corruption, who have driven hundreds of billions of privatised businesses, carried out metro money, parked hundreds of millions in foreign bank accounts, and damaged students and pensioners in the Czeglédy case with an extensive series of frauds. [[14.50]] Let us not forget that Ferenc Gyurcsány was a former minister, while his wife was the vice president of the National Development Office, which decided on the EU billions, and let us not forget the influence of the so-called Little Clan for decades in Hungary. Among other things, we remember that the bank managed by Ferenc Gyurcsány's mother-in-law provided a loan and privatisation background for the construction of Ferenc Gyurcsány's corporate empire. Dear House, As Congressman said, the criminal organisation linked to Csaba Czeglédy, DK and MSZP's domestic lawyer, has cheated approximately HUF 6.3 billion and has damaged pensioners and students. It raises a question for my fellow Members: what are the links between the lawyer working as a member of the party or the lawyer working as part of the party and the school associations organised by him, as well as the missing money and the parties that can be brought up behind it. I would like to remind you that the Altus Porfolio, belonging to the interest of Ferenc Gyurcsány, has on several occasions granted Csaba Czeglédy a larger loan. Ferenc Gyurcsány, the fallen left-wing prime minister and his wife, Klára Dobrev, claimed that it was only a matter of friendly assistance, yet the conditions laid down in the contract suggest an exact opposite. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Klára Dobrev is leading the DK EP list, but the question arises as to her nomination: perhaps Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife would welcome the immunity of the MEP, because she wants to go to the European Parliament without answering the question of her true role in the Czeglédy scandal to this day. Dear House, The party of the Hungarian Socialist Party and Ferenc Gyurcsány continues to keep secrets and defend Csaba Czeglédy accused of the crime of fiscal fraud and the abuse of false private documents. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise that the socialists are protecting a company that has looted students and pensioners. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Sándor Kovács to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-45	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You can see that people who want to throw dirt at someone else tend to fall back on the charges they're facing. I think it's bigger, for now it's a question, but we hope there will be evidence that Klára Dobrev, as DK's candidate, is really running away from the responsibility of Altus Zrt. and Human Operator Zrt., controlled by Csaba Czeglédy. and these fraudulent sums were used to fund left-wing parties, I'm guessing. Thank you very much for the answer, and I accept it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, MEP László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: the international organisations devalue Hungarian health care? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! In recent weeks, the government has received a lot of feedback from both outside and inside the house about the fact that, as healthcare is currently, it is very far from what you would like to see, i.e. the XXI. From health care in the first century. Recently, the president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber made it clear that we were cynical about the government's success in health, that the government is right in that we are even better than Afghanistan. But not only domestic, but also foreign, there are plenty of evaluations from the past period. Allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to explain, for example, the report by Bloomberg, which prioritises the health and health of the inhabitants of each country. Well, that concludes that the situation in our country is saddening. Countries such as Chile or Uruguay have proven to be healthier than us, or Lebanon, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs considered as the first country of increased security risk. According to the report, the low life expectancy expected at birth, high levels of smoking, alcoholism or even bad air in Hungary have all resulted in a situation with which we are the last of the Visegrád Four countries. In another international survey, our health system has received the worst classification in comparing European consumer indices, with our results worse than Bulgarians and slightly better than Albania. Unfortunately, we have managed to secure one of the last places in European comparison. These international analyses degrade the Hungarian government's health work from week to week. May we ask, how much longer will this go on? All of this is also painful external feedback because it coincides with what the population experiences every day. Many times the buildings are in ruins, sometimes it's just lucky someone doesn't get caught in the ceiling in a ward. In other places, the state buys beds for patients, relatives, patients collect beds at home, or they bring in equipment that has become redundant from the West as a donation. Patients meet tired, burned - out, and worked - up health workers in the institutions and try to buy quality and care with humiliating, and sometimes very difficult, gratitude money for everyone. Well, Mr Secretary of State, unfortunately, the Hungarian patients feel that they are slowly the sickest in Europe, and they feel good that they are the least cared for by their government. Chapter XXI of the Government He promised health care in the first century, but by 2019 almost none of this had been achieved. In the past, almost a year, there has been no real change, although the profession and patients were rightly expecting a turn from the minister with a doctor's degree. Instead, the health system continued to decline, now under the assistance of Prof. Dr. Miklós Kásler. Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to your answers to the following questions. How long will they allow Hungarian health care to slide down in international comparisons? Is there a government plan to prevent this? And why not start a national poster campaign of billions of Hungarians decimating tobacco, excessive alcohol consumption, or anti-cancer action? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to his interpellation question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is not surprising for an exporter of a doctor to quote foreign surveys; obviously there he is trying to raise the demand for the work of Hungarian doctors and nurses. You have gained great experience in how to get Hungarian doctors and nurses abroad to other countries. Of course, you didn't care that it would make the Hungarian patients worse; the better it was for you, or the better it was for your family business, the worse it was for the Hungarian patients. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] But you quoted two international surveys. Let me give you a little tutoring on what it is that you have quoted and what kind of rankings you have drawn. The Bloomberg Institute does indeed have two health assessments, and you quoted them. One is an efficiency survey, which looks at where people's health needs the least expense, in Hungarian: it looks at the average age and how much a country spends on health care. And the less he spends on health care, the more he gets ahead of this ranking, the less money he can create health; so one government follows another, and if the latter splits the health costs, then suddenly that country jumps the ladder, because with less money he can guarantee similar health care by taking measures from the previous government. Now, this is the list on which you said that Romania has left Hungary, where it is purely market-based to see where the least money is spent and where people's health costs the least. Here, for example, Germany sits behind Romania and Hungary sits behind Romania. So if you want to move forward in this list, that means moving away from Germany, approaching Romania and spending less relatively on health care. It's one of the Bloomberg lists. So you'd be drawing funds to move forward here. On the other Bloomberg list, in the ranking of the healthiest countries, I think you can be pleased, too, Member, I am sure that if you are well-intentioned, you have been able to improve Hungary's rankings and you have reached the top 50, from 52th place to 48th place, where there are really health measurements: life expectancy, obesity, smoking, air pollution, most common causes of death, clean water, sewerage, so they are really looking at the content requirements. We did not make a mistake here, honourable Member, but we have improved, we have a more positive position here. But foam on the cake, which you quoted, is the European health consumer index. A private company conducts this survey for market purposes. It also explains why the level of health in Hungary is deteriorating according to this private company index. I quote you literally: the governments of the Hungarian government and other countries focus not on the optimal functioning of their country, but on restricting the freedom of the press, placing the judiciary under political influence and reducing refugees. [[15.00]] So according to the health index quoted by you, the reason why the quality of care in Hungary is deteriorating is because Hungary literally does not accept immigrants. Honourable Member, you present this as a professional international survey here in the Hungarian Parliament. However, it is no wonder that today we are talking about a pro-immigration Jobbik, a pro-immigration party obviously citing a pro-immigration international survey that links the state of freedom of the press, the state of justice in Hungary and our position on the migration issue and the state of health. Obviously, this was a politically motivated survey. Honourable Member, I think it is talkative that, in recent years, the average age of people in Hungary has risen by 1.4 years, fortunately, or that the proportion of people who died of chronic illness under the age of 65 has decreased by 15 percent, while in the EU it has decreased by 10 percent. Fortunately, we have also managed to improve more than other countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr László György Lukács to accept the State Secretary's answer. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-51	I have no reason to accept Mr. Secretary of State's reply. I was thinking, as I was taking notes, how to answer it. Perhaps the simplest thing I've recorded, Mr. Secretary, is this number. Keep that in mind. This means that it was 24,000 people who died in 2017 and this number you confessed would have been prevented from dying. By the way, Miklós Kásler himself claims this in a background study and is related to him. And you know what, Mr. Secretary, if you don't have a problem with what you said, then you'll have plenty and you'll be happy to vote off what your minister asked for, and you asked for 1500 billion for you to save health care. So what's real now, Mr. Secretary? Is it that health care is in trouble or that health care is good? What does Miklós Kásler want with his money? Why is it that 24,000 people died in 2017 when it was the fault of the supply system? Secretary of State, that's what you have to answer instead of cynical answers and cynical puffs. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And almost everyone in this House knows, of course you don't know that Fidesz is the only one who helped immigrants: 86,000 immigrants have been brought in in in recent years! [[It's an uproar. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-52	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 21 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, Bence Rétvári and Péter Harrach, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What measures are planned for the operation of telejournalists and remote healers? It's an address. Mr. Péter Harrach has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-53	Dear Secretary of State, The Christian Democratic People's Party has always paid particular attention to protecting consumers who are at increased risk of their lives. As an example, we can refer to the recent action against illegal display of products. As a result of the legislative amendments adopted, the number of consumer complaints decreased significantly, the number of related credit and loan agreements decreased, and the classic product presentations almost disappeared. Over the last few weeks, we've been focusing attention on another problem. Telejósda and telehegyítás programmes are available in Hungary on several television channels and on the Internet, where hundreds of HUF per minute are promised to the callers countless opportunities. The caller can ask for healing energy, overcoming financial problems, creating the best future, hope in gambling or simply exploring the secrets of the future. Although these programmes do not enjoy a great deal of viewing, they are mostly broadcast in the morning hours, but, despite low ratings, they are also very profitable. And their goal is obviously deception, unfair commercial practice, which is only confirmed by the vulnerability and vulnerability of the primary consumer. Dear Secretary of State, These programmes, as included in our notification to the Consumer Protection Authority, are XLVII of 2008 on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices against consumers. are engaged in activities contrary to the concept of unfair commercial practice as defined in law. Access to the programme cannot be understood, but the recipients of the service will not be properly informed about how they process their personal data. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the above, I ask you how the portfolio sees the functioning of telejournalists and remote healers from a consumer point of view and plans to take action in relation to these operations. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer to the interpellation by Mr Fraction Manager and Mr Bence Rétvári will be given by State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The government sets the protection of Hungarian people and Hungarian families as a priority goal. Thus, the domestic consumer protection system pays particular attention to protecting Hungarian people, Hungarian families, from all the activities and products that can cause them material, health or moral harm, which are true today, are becoming less and less likely to be encountered. Hungarian consumer protection, as it has already done, is strongly opposed to misleading sales methods for consumers. As Mr Group Leader pointed out, less than a tenth of the number of complaints received by the Consumer Protection Authority in connection with goods-showing deceptions has been repressed thanks to government measures. The amendment of the law adopted by the Parliament in December 2015 prohibited credit placement and advertising of free benefits at commodity displays, and the Consumer Protection Authority regularly monitors the display of goods. Due to the continued presence of the authorities, the number of complaints continues to decline. While, before the law was amended, there were an average of 43 monthly complaints, the average number of complaints dropped to only three per month. Thanks to government measures, therefore, the air around these companies is running out. At the same time, experience has shown that products sold under display have shifted to the health line, which we are also taking decisive action against. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology will therefore continue to monitor closely the operation of companies specialising in commodity displays for the benefit of the elderly in order to further reduce the phenomenon. Dear Chief of Staff, As with the display of goods, telejournalists and remote healers are known to the Consumer Protection Authority. Telejournalists can draw huge sums, pull them out of people's pockets, and there's reason to believe that many people are being harmed. The method is known: they set minutes for calls that, including waiting, cost the caller a large amount of money. Procedures have been launched and are ongoing on this subject in the past year. The investigation covers misleading and unfair commercial practices as well as other infringements arising, which fall within the competence of the Hungarian Competition Authority, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, in addition to the Consumer Protection Authority. At present and in the near future, we are taking decisive action against misleading, knowingly damaging sales practices that exploit the most vulnerable elderly people, in order to reduce and eliminate this phenomenon. The government supports all initiatives aimed at eliminating abuses. I'm asking you to accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.10]]
u2019-03-04-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask Congressman Bence Rétvári to accept the Secretary of State's answer. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Allow me to read some of these shows:. Don't hang up the phone, ask my colleagues for the initiation. There's a big prize written in your fate. I'm giving up your fateful karmic winnings, unlocking the blockage in this regard. I'm giving you a million-dollar win, and the reason you didn't reach me so far is because I didn't release this blockage. If you have an 8 or 3 in your birth date, your paper money, your tax card, I'll help you win millions of dollars in a karmic way. I have direct ties to the archangel Gabriel, I can give you money magic advice. I am an ancient deity. and it could also be mentioned how many misleading and sometimes annoying and outrageous words they try to pull hundreds of forints out of people's pockets per minute, take advantage of the difficult situation of their lives, and also in programmes in networked with foreign owners. We are asking the Honourable Ministry and the Consumer Protection Authority to help these various witches and others get them off the screen. I therefore accept your answer, thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What do you think about the fact that the natural decline in population has increased again last year? It's an address. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is not in the Chamber, and accordingly the interpellation issue cannot be addressed. According to our legislation, this interpellation is considered withdrawn. Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How many young Hungarians do not get into the university because you have introduced a brutal tuition fee? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Gréczy is not in the Chamber, so the question of interpellation cannot be said. Interpellation shall be considered withdrawn in accordance with house rules. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff:. The government admitted to conducting a campaign outside the official campaign period disguised as government information? It's an address. Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio is not in the Chamber, and his question of interpellation cannot accordingly be said. According to the house rules, the interpellation is considered withdrawn. Dear House, Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: When will Jobbik repay the unfairly hired millions? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Polish-Hungarian investigative team, which is looking for a billionaire tax fraud in Poland, is undoubtedly already on the verge of investigating two former national police officers, several major contractors and Gábor Staudt's recently resigned bona fide MPs. Several witnesses confirmed that Gábor Staudt personally participated in meetings where a Polish accountant was consulted on how to carry out VAT fraud on the trade in precious metals in Poland, thereby circumventing the Polish tax system. But just as in the worst criminal case, the alleged perpetrator is entitled to the presumption of innocence, just as honest Hungarian voters are entitled to the right of discernment. In this case, there may be a cross-border economic crime, and there may be suspicion of a crime. The fact that the name of a representative elected by the confidence of the Hungarian people may arise in this case is outrageous. Dear Minister, The Staudt case is often ignored by the fact that Gábor Staudt announced his resignation in December 2018, but he actually resigned only a month and a half later, on January 31, 2019, so that he could receive a total honor fee of HUF 1.6 million. Jobbik could have made more than that by making money on the basis of Staudt's representativeship, from the operating, supply, employee and faction wage structure. Then we haven't even talked about the nearly $2 million budget. Jobbik's pretty loose on the money. It is memorable that when they collected last year to pay the fine for their irregular farming, the 100 million thus received were applauded. Behind the prolonged resignation of Staudt and the Jewish István Szávay, the party and the two scandalous representatives made millions on this delay. So Jobbik was once again exposed to the fact that he had spent weeks actually resigning from the two representatives, and the party not only described itself morally but also profited. Dear Minister, Do you see a chance that Jobbik will pay back the money taken unfairly? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr Völner's interpellation question will be from Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, in his interpellation, Mr President, he pointed out that the agreement had been signed on the establishment of a Polish-Hungarian investigative team which could end the multibillion-dollar VAT fraud case at the expense of the Polish state, in which Gábor Staudt, the Parliamentary representative of Jobbik, who had resigned for private reasons, could also be involved. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members that Gábor Staudt announced his resignation in December 2018, as you said, but he has actually resigned from his parliamentary seat only with effect from 31 January 2018. In addition, I would like to address István Szávay, who was also a better representative, who announced his resignation in connection with the publication of a recording. On the tape in question, the former betterman boasts that he played Jewish and then hit a woman at a nightclub in Budapest. Savay's been defending himself ever since that he was actually lying, and he didn't beat her. I don't know which is better, obviously lying would be luckier. However, this is no excuse for the anti-Semitic remarks which he acknowledged. Then István Szávay promised to resign with effect from 31 December, but that didn't happen then. Ladies and gentlemen, They were probably financial reasons for the two politicians being detained by Jobbik. The procrastination of István Szávay and Gábor Staudt's exit could bring millions of forints to the two former Members of Parliament, and in this context also to Jobbik. Once again, Jobbik was exposed to this story, and the party again described itself morally, for they profited from the delay. What has been said again proves that Jobbik does not respect not only the laws, but also the Hungarian people, for the sake of money and power. At the very least, you can expect Jobbik's parliamentary party to pay back the money that has been taken unfairly. Dear House, Under the Fundamental Law of Hungary, he exercises the power of the people through his elected representatives, exceptionally directly. However, pursuant to Article 4 of the Fundamental Law, the rights and obligations of Members of Parliament are equal, their activities are carried out in the public interest and cannot be ordered in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder whether Gábor Staudt acted in the public interest, in accordance with the wishes of his constituents, when he attended personal meetings in order to play out the Polish tax system and thus draw the VAT away from the Polish state. According to the statements in the press, Gábor Staudt and his associates wanted to obtain money by circumventing the law. Ladies and gentlemen, This conduct is in no way compatible with the status of representatives, nor is it compatible with the obligation that he undertook in his election for his constituents. We ask opposition politicians, not in an unfair way, to make money through questionable transactions, but to do the honours entrusted to you by the citizens who elected you. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik is a couple with no history that sank into the same swamp as left-wing political parties. The scandals affecting the Jobbik faction and the infighting within the party are, in my view, incompatible with the confidence of voters in Jobbik. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. [[15.20]]
u2019-03-04-63	Dear fellow Members, Thank you for the floor. [[György Szilágyi: Speech of one and a half million! Eight speeches, one and a half million forints apiece!]] Secretary of State, I accept your answer. [[György Szilágyi. With the taxpayers' money! Noise in Jobbik's benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] We hope that Jobbik will follow ethical and moral rules after this. [[György Szilágyi: That's, that's, that's, one and a half million!]] But let's not have any illusions in this area. Because this weekend, Mr. Staudt sent me a message through social media, letting me know that he had tracked down my address. Mr Staudt must be very disturbed by the interpellation that he threatened me so openly [[Lajos Rig: I'm sure you'll be protected by the Szakonyi...]] But they can't intimidate me. [[Constant noise and interruptions.]] I am still elected by the voters [[György Szilágyi: One and a half million per speech!]] I'm going to represent their interests, and I'm going to find a solution to their problems. [[Constant noise from Jobbik's benches. Here comes the orange guy. György Szilágyi: One and a half million per speech!]] And to Mr Staudt, who told me that I would see you in court, yes, unlike me, you do go there often. I promise I'll keep an eye on the defendants' bench.
u2019-03-04-64	Thank you very much. I would also ask Congressman Bana not to yell at me as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interview to the Minister of Human Resources:. You also have the right to know that the government wants to take away the possibility of obtaining a diploma from tens of thousands of talented young people. It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In less than a year's time, your policy could cause serious damage to tens of thousands of talented Hungarian young people. This is the time left until the government plans to implement a regulation that would allow access to higher education only by a secondary language examination. On several occasions, we have stressed that Jobbik considers language teaching to be a priority. We also agree that inclusion in higher education requires a certain level of knowledge, which must also be reflected in language knowledge. However, it is essential to ensure adequate preparation before imposing such a requirement. At present, a significant proportion of Hungarian public education institutions are unable to comply with these conditions, so the entry into force of the regulation in 2020 would cause serious disadvantages for tens of thousands of young people. It must be acknowledged that the target date you set is too early, it must be postponed. Dear Secretary of State, With the introduction of compulsory language exams, thousands of young people who do not have an excellent sense of language, for example, but who are otherwise talented in other areas, or who do not have the ability of their families to pay for the enormous costs of taking extra classes or taking language courses. According to Jobbik, such material discrimination is totally unacceptable. In addition to Jobbik, many professional organisations agree on this disadvantage, as the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights László Székely has repeatedly expressed his objections. All the people and organisations who know the problem agree on one thing: fundamental language education reforms are needed. Of course, we welcome the two-week trip of young people abroad, which has now been announced, but this is not a solution in itself. As long as the quality of our language education is such that one and a half times the number of language lessons in other countries is not sufficient to obtain a language examination, reform of the funds should start. There may be a greater need for the billions that are now destined to travel young people. Dear Secretary of State, It is finally time for them to realise that there is not enough conditionality to bring this strict criterion into force from 2020. This will have serious consequences in a number of areas that are still missing, in health care, in teaching or in engineering and engineering. On this basis, I would like to have a clear answer to my question: to postpone the entry into force of the regulation imposing a language examination as a requirement for admission from 2020 or to continue the silent reduction of higher education and to exclude tens of thousands of young people from higher education. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-03-04-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer to the interpellation question by Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In 2014, when this decision was made, so five years ago, we had to answer an important question. We wanted to answer the question that six years later, compared to the decision, we wanted to have a higher education that could help young Hungarians even more to project their degree in higher jobs at home, if necessary by reading international literature even during university years, that they could take on foreign language courses, that they could use foreign scholarships more easily, that their degree would be more valuable by learning the language. This is what we want to do, and for the next six years, we are going to help young people to get their degree in quality higher education, their qualifications as high as possible, or sit back, put our hands in arms and do nothing. The government said that we wanted as many Hungarian students as possible to have a higher degree, and as a condition, five years ago we said that after six years, there should be a secondary level of foreign language knowledge, or a higher level of graduation could be expected to be higher than the degree itself, the acquisition of knowledge. Of course, we have also added how many kinds of support young people receive to obtain this. Just because we want these young people not only to be subordinates in Hungary, but also to be leaders through a more valuable degree, their language skills. Many international companies are present in Hungary, fortunately Hungarian companies are expanding abroad. This is obviously a work in a foreign language environment, and in this foreign language environment, the professional language must also be learned in a foreign language, so it is an advantage for them, in the interest of Hungarian graduates, if they can learn professional knowledge in a foreign language even during five years or three plus two years or six years of training. You know and quoted that 924 hours can be spent on average learning foreign languages for a student in Hungary, and this is far enough to enable someone to learn a foreign language at the level of the secondary language exam. He did not quote it, but it is important that while in OECD countries an average language group is composed of 13.6 students in school, in Hungary there are 11 people in a foreign language group at school. So there are fewer in one group than in other developed countries. You know that we made the first language exam free for young people, we spent HUF 823 million last year on this, and 27 967 language examiners were able to use this free language exam. As you can know by browsing these programs, we have announced a program for the benefit of language learning from HUF 2.6 billion, in which we provide the possibility of learning languages outside of class for 2200 young people. One of the consequences of these is that in the 14-19-year-old population, there was a very large increase in the number of language graduates. Instead of the previous 46,000, 54 thousand passed the language exam, obviously because the time was near where this could be a requirement for admissions, and obviously, for whom it would be a requirement for admission in the following year, they knew before the high school enrollment that they had to deal with this admission requirement, and that they could concentrate on this throughout the four years of high school. You have also mentioned that young people receive almost unprecedented help through two-week, state-funded language courses in a foreign native language environment. We hope that this will also help to get the most valuable degrees for everyone and to work for higher wages in the labour market. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Gergely Farkas to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-69	Thank you for the floor. I can't accept the answer. A single acceptable response would have been [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: What was it supposed to be?]] how many years they delay this set of requirements. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He knew six years ago!]] Because Mr Secretary of State also said that if, in 2014, when this regulation was introduced, the six years would have been intended to actually create the conditionality, we would not be here. We would not say that 48 percent of higher education applicants did not have a language certificate in 2018. Forty-eight percent! So you wouldn't let every second admission into college or university.Since 2010, the number of higher education students has dropped from 140,000 to 105,000, and this was a 25 percent decrease. If this regulation enters into force next year, the number of higher education students will decrease even more drastically. Secretary of State, you should acknowledge that this proposal is professionally wronged, unfair, because it will keep tens of thousands of young people away from higher education and should therefore be postponed as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[15.30]]
u2019-03-04-70	Thank you very much. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 19 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. It's an address. Mr Lajos Korózs is not in the Chamber, so the interpellation will not be heard. Interpellation shall be considered withdrawn under house rules. Imre László, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. Congressman Imre László is not in the Chamber, so the interpellation will not be heard. However, interpellation is considered withdrawn under house rules. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: you also have the right to know that the government does not want to pay for police overtime. Congressman Tamás Csányi has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The question of paying police overtime is again on the table. Concerns and mistrust in police personnel have revived that they are being paid for their actual overwork. In 2015 the Parliament decided by law to extend until 31 December 2018 the deadline during which overtime can be redeemed in cash rather than in spare time. At that time, police management expected to be able to significantly increase the wages of police personnel, and they would not be interested in overserving. Jobbik is basically anti-occupational and over-service, as every working person needs rest, entertainment, meaningful association with his family. And to do that, I need you to stop working for more than eight hours a day. However, in many places in the public service, our countrymen can only bring home the income they need to make a living if they overwork and overwork. That is why we need to address this issue. The amount of overtime is 13 and 14 months' salary in recent years. The Minister of the Interior's monthly income comes to the average salary of 15 police officers. That is why it is very important that Minister do stand before the Prime Minister and demand that those to whom we leave our security should have an income close to Western European remuneration. In order to pay a decent salary for the 35,000 police personnel, we have the resources assigned to the wallet, and we should only make fewer purchases of assets every year, so that we can manage the higher wages. In order to deter citizens, an amazing amount of instruments have been used, which are basically unused. With a common sense-based management, it would be possible to start paying police personnel. During the migration crisis, the police serving at the border were able to move from the 150-200 thousand income band to the 200-300 thousand forints income band. However, in the long term, this cannot be maintained. In December 2018, the possibility of a cash redemption of the over-service was extended until 31 December 2022, but there is uncertainty in many places due to the specific budgetary resources. For example, in Szabolcs County, it was designed to set an overtime window for the departments in which no more over-services are paid than the framework. That means you can work more, but there won't be any remuneration. The Jobbik Wage Union initiative would serve precisely these problems. As a member of the European Union, we need to catch up with Western wages, especially with prices in Hungary up to 40% lower than Western Europeans, but one third of the remuneration. We need to bridge these gaps. Mr Secretary of State, please respond to your plan to adapt to the European wage of police personnel to promote the security of our society. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] when it brings it to the government and to ensure that it is the source of financial redemption in the organization for each hour of overtime. Please answer me on the merits. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-72	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government provides the resources needed to redeem the over-service in cash, as it provided financial cover for an average 50% wage increase under the law enforcement career model. XLII 2015 on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies. It shall be done in accordance with the provisions of law. In the context of the false rumors concerning the over-service accounting practices of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Police Headquarters, I would like to inform you of the following. The Kaposvár Regional Department of the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office, as a body designated in the case, and the National Police Headquarters, have also carried out checks on this issue. None of the investigations have revealed the circumstances suggesting a violation of the law, Congressman. In all cases, the police department, the police headquarters, provided the cash redemption of the over-service. A member of a professional staff may continue to decide whether to ask for the redemption of the over-service in cash or in spare time. The amendment of the law submitted by the Defence and Police Committee was supported by the Government and adopted by the Parliament on 27 November 2018. This option exists for services ordered and performed under the bill by 31 December 2022. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The police pay overtime, and the government provides the resources to do so. Overtimes shall be ordered and paid to all professional bodies in the manner laid down by law. Honourable Congressman, If you care about the safety of Hungary, if you care about the safety of Hungary and the safety of the Hungarian people, please refer this answer to where these questions are raised. So what you said earlier about this is that the police don't pay overtime, they're fake news, don't sit them up, believe me, because the government, the police, the Ministry of the Interior are fulfilling their obligations. Thank you very much, and I ask you to accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Tamás Csányi to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-03-04-75	Dear Secretary of State, I'm willing to believe you, but I can't accept your answer. I'd like to ask you three questions just so everyone can see what we're talking about. Is it okay for you to think that an employee in a food chain earns twice or three times what a beginner cop's salary is? That's what Károly Papp, former chief of police, says. Is it okay that, in practice, 800-1000 overtime will be delayed due to the burning lack of police officers within the organization? Thus, it may be said that for the time being, police officers will be happy if they maximize overwork for 400 hours. Is it okay for a police officer to stay home for half a year because of overwork, if it takes everything to make the quality of the job even worse? In view of all of this, Jobbik calls on you to stop using the patience of police personnel, to put the working conditions in place so that this very important course is once again attractive to young people. This is your responsibility, and as your ad advertises, your home before anything else! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-76	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. So I'm asking you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 19 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Family Friendly Health." Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is not in the Chamber, so her interpellation is not given. However, according to the relevant requirements of the house rules, the interpellation is considered withdrawn. Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. Will the Government support the European Citizens' Initiative on fraud and abuse with EU resources? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, while thanking you for your patience and giving the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] [[15.40]]
u2019-03-04-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Put an end to fraud and abuse of EU funds. I think that this is a goal, a call with which all our honest compatriots agree, everyone should support this initiative regardless of party standing or world view. Unfortunately, we can see, on the other hand, that you are rigidly excluded from joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office from the government's side and that substantial action can be taken to reduce the corrupt use of EU funds. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that it was just Tibor Navracsics, your former minister, who said that it would be important to take effective action at Community, European Union level in order to keep the money of decent Hungarians, so that we can really spend EU funds for the purposes that could serve Hungary's catch-up. Why would it be important to support this European citizens' initiative, on which it is important to underline that it is not about joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which would also be a goal to be achieved, and why the government is shutting down, or precisely that it is very understandable, because it is the only way to pay for the mob network, the oligarchs that are channeled to you. But we are dealing with a European Citizens' Initiative, which could also deliver meaningful results in countries that decide not to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. With regard to the use of EU funds, it is important to ask how this is done, how this is controlled, because it would be in the country's interest to spend these resources to create jobs, to boost economic recovery and to promote the competitiveness of our country, and cohesion funds should also serve the purpose of ensuring that countries in a worse situation than Western European Member States are caught up in this way. Here, in this case, in the case of the European Citizens' Initiative, there is absolutely no right to refer to sovereignty either in a false way, as they are not right about the European Public Prosecutor's Office; this debate has been held many times, even today, but the European Citizens' Initiative could be supported by everyone, even you, to say that there is no need for us to join this organisation, but it is also important for us to reduce corruption. Therefore, the question arises that this European Citizens' Initiative, which requires one million signatures at the level of the European Union as a whole, is willing to support, is willing to do so, or is more typical of you to put, say, the International Investment Bank in a position to serve them in this way. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Friends, buddies (The President bells.) They're connected to you. My question to the Secretary of State is, therefore, to take substantial action. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to reduce corruption? [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-03-04-78	Thank you. Welcome, fellow Members. Congressman, three minutes is your time frame. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-04-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a very instructive day, as Jobbik also managed to catch up with DK on the issue of surrendering sovereignty in Hungary. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Sit down, Number One. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Very weak!]] I would remind you that the Hungarian Government has always agreed with the fundamental objectives and aspirations behind the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: No, it's not true!]] At the same time, by setting up the European Public Prosecutor's Office, Member States undertake to transfer part of their criminal sovereignty and one of the essential functions of the State to the European Union. We therefore believe that accession to the regulation would only be acceptable if it fully respects the constitutional arrangements of the Member States and fundamental principles of European Union law such as the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. In addition, the adopted text of the regulation does not meet our basic principles and professional expectations on a number of points, so the Hungarian Government decided not to participate in the creation of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, including in enhanced cooperation. There are 28 Member States of the Union, 22 of which have joined, so Hungary is not the only one who raised objections to this cooperation. Nevertheless, it should be stressed that Hungary will cooperate with the European Public Prosecutor's Office in a spirit of loyal cooperation in accordance with the EU provisions on relations between the Member States remaining outside. Furthermore, the fact that Hungary does not participate in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office does not lead to a reduction in the domestic level of the fight against crimes which harm the European Union's financial interests. [[György Szilágyi: It can't get any lower!]] or that control of the use of EU funds would be less intensive. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] In order to maximise the effectiveness of law enforcement, the Hungarian authorities continue to pay particular attention to existing and well-functioning European cooperation systems such as Eurojust, or to cooperation with OLAF, which, while maintaining its importance, the Hungarian Government generally stands out in European fora. The purpose of the citizens' initiative is to encourage the application of increased controls and stricter sanctions in Member States which do not join the European Public Prosecutor's Office for the protection of the European Union's financial interests, while Article 1 (2) of the European Commission's Decision of 19 September 2018 provides that the initiative may focus on Commission proposals which do not distinguish between Member States solely on their participation or not in enhanced cooperation on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The decision to participate or not in an enhanced cooperation that has established the European Public Prosecutor's Office is based on voluntary choice by each Member State and therefore, under the main rule of Union acts adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties, cannot distinguish between Member States solely on the basis of whether they participate or do not participate in enhanced cooperation. One million signatures must be collected by 27 September 2019 and 1853 signatures have been collected. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik now does not represent national interests, but Brussels bureaucrats. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Jobbik calls for action against corruption where the State Audit Office found in a report that the party did not demonstrate its transparent and eligible management of public funds [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't joke!]] and accepted a prohibited financial contribution. [[Interviews in Jobbik's ranks, including: At least don't act.]] On this basis, we must also evaluate this speech. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-03-04-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The European Citizens' Initiative does not apply to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes!]] but, in order to effectively curb corruption, to collect signatures, even if the country is not a member of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. You could sign this, too, if it were important for you to reduce corruption in Hungary, but it is not important to you, it is not important to the pro-government representatives. Why don't you join us, why don't you join the European Public Prosecutor's Office? [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] Why do you not support this European Citizens' Initiative? Because the most important thing for you is to steal [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] The most important thing for you is to serve your own mafia network, your buddies, override everything. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Sit down, Number One.]] They provide this country to eastern despots, and build their power so that only a circle related to you can benefit from it, rather than getting ahead with our honest compatriots, Hungarian teachers, doctors, nurses and anyone who tries to work for their own family every day with sweat. Jobbik will not allow this, and we will also do everything in the European Parliament election campaign to prevent it from being allowed to happen. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Viktor Orbán (The President is ringing the bell. ) lead Hungary out of the European Union. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP. Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-82	Dear Parliament, As far as I can tell, the congressman didn't accept the answer. So I'm asking you to accept it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: SZDSZ awaits! There's still room in the Momentum!]] Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 17 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. You also have the right to know: No more Hungarian vegetables, only brutal prices? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2019-03-04-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. In recent times, more and more research has been published, which measures purchasing power, and for example, one of these shows that an average Hungarian household has to pay 6-7 percent, but sometimes even 10 percent more for the same family dinner than it did a year ago. In important vegetables and fruits, we can see even more brutally expensive, in some cases up to 40 percent. [[15.50]] But we can also talk about the egg, which is one of the basics of everyday eating, at least it should be, especially if every Hungarian family could eat eggs regularly. We are talking about a 50-forint price, which could be a step up right now, and I am talking about a piece price, so let's just say we look at the 2016-17 price increase, but let's just say that VAT fell from 27 percent to 5 percent. So clearly they did not include the guarantees that would ensure that the benefit of the VAT reduction was not swallowed up by the traders, but that they should reach those who should feel this reduction in substance, i.e. the Hungarian people. But I could tell you the same story in the case of pork, and we would expect these guarantees to be actually incorporated into one of these measures. Let me highlight one, for example, because it is also a serious problem when substitute products are not reduced in a given circle, only a single food is selected, and that is how in practice traders shoot the price of the substitute product close to the VAT reduced. This is therefore a further problem, and this should be addressed in a way that Jobbik has already put before you in many of its proposals, with a single, thought-out VAT reduction focused on domestic food. The latest tragedy, of course, does not come alone, because next to the inflation started in January, the fact that domestic vegetables have virtually disappeared has arrived. I'm talking about basic vegetables like potatoes and onions, whose domestic stock is completely gone. But there are many examples of fruit. It can be felt, therefore, that there is a need for a well-prepared VAT reduction. If you are to think about it, Mr Secretary of State, what a competitive disadvantage it is for honest, honest traders or farmers to be able to show up on the market with the same product in the form of a VAT fraud, it is quite clear that fair farmers and traders will not be able to keep up with those who do this. This situation would therefore be improved by a comprehensive and thought-out VAT reduction, and we had not yet talked about its public health impact. So we would look forward to an answer as to when it will be in Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a uniform and thought-out basic VAT reduction. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Once again, I have to say that the clear experience of reducing VAT on key agricultural sectors, which started in 2014, on the basis of the government's proposal, is that the sector concerned will benefit: it will become whitener, its competitiveness will improve and it will also create a favourable situation for the consumer. This claim is also supported by the main players in the sectors concerned. Each year since 2014, the general sales tax on a basic agricultural product has decreased, and the latest time since 2019 the VAT on UHT milk and ESL milk has decreased. The VAT on all basic foods cannot be reduced at the same time. In this area, only progressive and appropriate implementation will be able to achieve sustained positive objectives, taking into account the potential of the current budget. The government has no direct influence on the changes in costs incurred during the production and further journey of the product and on the global supply and demand market conditions, and the adjustment of the rate of general sales tax is only one of the elements determining the price. The agricultural portfolio continuously monitors the effects of the measures, the reduction immediately appeared in consumer prices, which were caused by changes in market conditions and costs incurred in production. The price of eggs, which you referred to above, is also determined by factors that are closely linked to the market, as well as the price of vegetables and fruit. These include, for example, major drought damage in several crop sectors across Europe in 2018. I believe that these drought-damaged plants, foods, gardening products, especially root vegetables, are not only largely missing in Hungary, but also in Central Europe today, unfortunately, or extremely expensive. Honourable Congressman, Without VAT reductions, higher prices would be found in all the sectors concerned, as changes in production costs and market demand and supply conditions would have been the same for a higher rate. The output and gross added value of Hungarian agriculture has increased by more than 50 percent over the last six years, which is largely due to the measures taken so far, which are mutually reinforcing and complementary, and from which the Hungarian consumer also benefits. The government therefore constantly strives for the Hungarian consumer to consume as many competitive, healthy and high-quality domestic products as possible from a favourable income position, while the development of domestic agriculture remains undisturbed. At both domestic and European level, the agricultural portfolio and the government will do their best to shift trade relations that are not directly under its control into a way of curbing unfair practices, and to ensure a fairer distribution of profits for all industry players and consumers. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the aim of the agricultural portfolio remains to reduce the overall turnover tax on basic agricultural products, preferably in all important sectors, and the positive effects of this will, of course, become indisputable. Thank you for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-86	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I can't accept it. Is there a law against reducing all the VAT on food at the same time? Or I don't know what you mean when you say you can't. Why do we have to wait for all Hungarian vegetables and fruits, which were traditionally central to the Hungarian countryside and Hungarian food, to disappear and not to grow them? Why do you have to wait for this? In addition to social and sector-whitening aspects, the more diverse the cliché, the more we can feed on domestic agriculture, the better it is not only for the national economy, but also for our health. Secretary of State, why do Hungarian people, Hungarian farmers, have to wait for Lőrinc Mészáros to start growing potatoes, grow onions or cherry? Because the only hope in these sectors now is if he buys himself into one of these areas, because then they will certainly take a different approach. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and rescue these areas immediately. Don't make me wait. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 19 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It's 3:58 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Now we're going to talk about immediate questions. [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber in order to do so quietly because of their urgent public duties. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of the Decision are 29. In accordance with the powers set out in paragraph 3 (b) of this Article, by Ms Ágnes Vadai A/5001. The President of the Parliament rejected the immediate question, as the question violates the authority of the Parliament. [[It's constant noise.]] (b) by Ms Ágnes Vadai A/5001. The President of the Parliament rejected the immediate question, as the question violates the authority of the Parliament. (Continuous noise.) Dear Parliament, Before we get to the debate on immediate questions, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats or leave the Chamber. [[Ringing the bell.]] Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does power take advantage of all our patience? It's an address. [[16.00]] Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-03-04-89	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't accept the response.
u2019-03-04-90	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: å How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have tried in vain before at the Ministry of Justice, since State Secretary Völner has falsely avoided the need to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office on a question of sovereignty, and also to support the European Citizens' Initiative aimed at curbing the corrupt use of EU funds, so that we no longer allow any government, including the Orbán government, to steal EU money. 'Cause over the last few years, you guys have been driving this thing around. They did not drive up economic development and job creation goals for the use of EU funds, but, unfortunately, they directed these funds much more towards their own buddies. An example of this is that even the amounts used to control the use of EU funds have been stolen. Last week, my fellow Szilágyi faction confronted the Attorney General with this, but I very much hope that Minister can say something meaningful that if they refuse to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which would also be incomprehensible if we didn't see the corrupt way in which they lead a country, like the Polish Government, at least if they support this particular European Citizens' Initiative, which is now in fact relatively few signatures to report to Mr State Secretary, but the collection on the street has not yet started. On Wednesday, we will start this collection at stands, we will announce this initiative together with the LMP, and I very much hope that people of different world views will support this initiative because it is not a party political and philosophical issue. It is because if you agree that EU funds should not disappear in a dirty way, then action must be taken and regulations must be made at EU level in order to stop EU funds being stolen. I look forward to the Minister's reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-03-04-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The question was what to do, what to do, and what to do with the Hungarian state in relation to the use of EU funds. First of all, I would like to inform Mr President that Hungary was also, according to European Union statistics, the country that used these funds most effectively in the last seven years. Of course, the fight against corruption is a common task, and that is why we have adopted a criminal code which punishes corruption crimes significantly more severely than before, but, unlike you, who would hand over powers to Brussels, we are in favour of the concept of a Europe of nations. There is a European Union body that is still entitled to control the payment and use of EU funds, OLAF, and the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office also cooperates with this body. If and where OLAF has found irregularities or suspicions of criminal offences anywhere, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office has not followed them in other European countries, and therefore follows more stringent practices than the automatic initiation of criminal proceedings. We believe that the Hungarian constitutional institutional system is sufficient to investigate crimes, if necessary, to prosecute them, there was an example of this, regardless of party affiliation, and, in no case, we do not support the creation of a supranational European Union against which I remember that we were still fighting together. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-94	Thank you very much, Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana. Here you go. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]]
u2019-03-04-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I see that you have failed to understand that the European Citizens' Initiative is not even about the European Public Prosecutor's Office, but about taking effective action at European Union level to combat corruption. If you're against this, it's telling. Of course, according to the decisions of the Hungarian government, Hungary drew the money in the current development cycle and in the previous one, at the end of it, since Lőrinc Mészáros can lean back on the buddies who are channeled to you. They have obtained a significant part of these funds, not for meaningful purposes, to improve the situation of Hungarian villages and cities. OLAF also stated in the Elios case about the abuse of Mr.István Tiborc, Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, but the Hungarian prosecutor's office is covering for the government and no action has been taken. On the level of Hungary, you will deliver our country to eastern despots. We will not allow this, we will not allow it, and we will do everything at European Union level and at domestic level to ensure that those involved in these dirty transactions are accounted for. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-03-04-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In the last eight years, some 800,000 new jobs have been created in Hungary. So far, we have known two forms of opposition, one of which was, and this was the dominant one, that this was solely due to EU money. If I understand you do not share this, you believe that this is solely due to the performance of the Hungarian government, because if it is not so, then the use of EU funds could have been quite good in the country where there are 800 thousand more people working today than before. In order to develop the Hungarian villages, I would like to recommend to you, Mr. I sincerely hope that the legislative amendments in this regard will be supported by Jobbik. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-98	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Oláh, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question. Mr Lajos Oláh is not in the Chamber, he is not attending the Parliament meeting, so we cannot give him the opportunity. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: It's an address. He is not in the Chamber, he is not taking part in the Parliament meeting, so we cannot give him the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes and Péter Ungár, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question on the national affairs? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-03-04-99	Thank you, Mr. President. But I'd like to wait for Prime Minister, so I can't accept the response. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-04-100	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What does the government do about energy poverty? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-03-04-101	Yes, I accept.
u2019-03-04-102	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-04-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is unacceptable that today more than a hundred people die every year in Hungary because they cannot heat or get to a warm place in winter. This has meant more than a thousand people in the last eight years, the population of a Hungarian village, and we have not yet talked about those who are in a position to heat, with which we can, and thus cause serious air pollution, we know that the result is also thousands of deaths. But the number of people suffering from energy poverty is much more than that. About 80% of Hungary's 4,4 million domestic residential properties do not meet modern technical and energy criteria. Although annual household energy consumption is well above transport and industrial energy consumption, many of them are very cold, among the residents, especially the elderly, the single and the multi-children, because today 2-3 million people live in housing poverty in Hungary, in residential homes built before 1945, and which require at least four times more energy to heat up a square meter than in new residential buildings. [[16.10]] They should and should have been supported, because by 2017, Hungary received more than HUF 11 000 billion of EU funding. In 2011, the government planned the energy modernisation of 700 thousand apartments for the period 2014-2020, but we can see that only 5 percent of this was implemented in the Home Gay program by the end of 2017. Secretary of State, I'm asking how you plan to make the 600,000 down. What does the government do to reduce energy poverty? Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2019-03-04-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés answers the immediate question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-04-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It must be noted that the government has done a great deal to combat energy poverty. It has helped and will continue to help reduce energy poverty in Hungary through a number of interrelated energy measures. Perhaps the most important one should be highlighted: this is undoubtedly the reduction of the overhead costs that started in 2012. This government did exactly the opposite, as did your ally, the social-liberal government led by Gyurcsány, when it doubled and tripled the prices of electricity and gas between 2002 and 2010. But back to the answer to your question, the multi-stage measure covered all the components of public utilities providing energy for households, electricity, natural gas and district heating, with all three areas covered by the reduction of electricity. In the last six years, the reduction of the rent has left a total of HUF 1500 billion in Hungarian families, saving thousands of HUF per household per month. The move also substantially improved the situation of those groups of Hungarian society for whom the payment of overhead bills rising during left-wing governance was difficult. According to January data this year, the amount of public utility debts is now only half of the pre-cost value. Similarly, the number of households with insufficient heating has decreased, with an indicator of 6.6 per cent better than the EU average. The government will continue to maintain progress in reducing energy prices in 2019, despite the rise in market prices for electricity and gas and all opposition attacks and movements in Brussels; and I would like to mention a next component and programme in the rejoinder. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-107	Secretary of State, I do not know that you are familiar with the report recently published by an international organisation on EU countries. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: An international organization. One.]] based on Eurostat data on energy poverty. According to this report, Hungary is the last in the line and the last in Bulgaria. I would also like to refer to what this report has stated that, in general, but in Hungary in particular, it is a lack of political will to change this. There is nothing more eloquent about this than the fact that you presented the national energy and climate plan to the European Union in January this year, and there is almost no mention of how you want to eliminate or reduce energy poverty in Hungary today. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2019-03-04-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-109	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Looks like you weren't listening to my answer, my first two-minute answer. What can be done more against the energy poor than to reduce the price of energy? [[Erzsébet Schmuck: We are the last! Bulgaria is the last!]] Your allies said the exact opposite, constantly increasing energy prices many times, and we reduced it and, of course, offered other types of programs and opportunities to reduce energy poverty. If only on a social basis, the supply and insurance of firewood, winter firewood, should also be mentioned. But one of the very good proofs of the steps to reduce the energy consumption of families and the reduction of the overhead is the warm home programme, which has so far contributed to the energy modernisation of 310,000 households worth HUF 36 billion. And there could be additional examples if there was time. I ask you, Congresswoman, to be informed of the government's programmes and activities in this regard, and you would not ask such questions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-110	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Congresswoman Timea Szabó and Congressman Bence Tordai do not reside in the Chamber, they do not attend the Parliament meeting, so they will not be able to speak. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Mr Tamás Mellár does not reside in the Chamber, he does not attend the Parliament meeting, so his speech will not take place. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Fenyvesi, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: " What else needs to be revealed so that Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife can finally stop lying? " The title is given below. Congressman, you have the floor. [[György Szilágyi: Only 1 million 300 thousand forints of taxpayers' money!]]
u2019-03-04-111	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In recent news, Interpol found in Belgrade Cvetan Vaszilev, a Bulgarian banker who stole some EUR 600 billion from one of the largest private banks in Bulgaria, the Corpbank in Sofia. The oligarch is also being prosecuted for money laundering and suspicion of bankruptcy. As known, the banker was related to the company of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev, Altus Zrt. because it is interested in various projects in almost the whole Balkans, including Bulgaria. For the Bulgarian oligarch, Interpol issued the highest level red BOLO last fall. The banker could also lend money to politicians and oligarchs. The big question is that the name of the Gyurcsány married couple will be on the list of those who received Vaszilev's money from the stolen money, and the joint companies will receive it from the embezzled millions. Vaszilev, however, is not only an economic criminal. A number of international journalists' organisations have dealt with the fact that the banker has hired assassins to eliminate a Bulgarian media owner who wanted to expose the crimes committed by Vaszilev. A number of questions are raised in this case, which the Bulgarian authorities will hopefully be able to answer as soon as possible, as Bulgaria has already requested the extradition of its criminal partner. Have you been in touch with Cvetan Vaszilev during the BOLO? How is it possible for a Hungarian politician's name to come into contact with such a dark matter? Why did you initially deny business relations with the Bulgarian banker Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-03-04-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The question asked by the congressman is, "What else needs to be found out so that Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife can finally stop lying?" It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. I can't answer that, but if the question is what it takes to stop lying to Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife, then I know that it requires a miracle. But since it's a Christian Democratic government, that's why we're giving miracles a chance, so let's hope Ferenc Gyurcsány tells the truth. [[Deficiencies, noises, interruptions. György Szilágyi: A settlement was needed!]] Jobbik asks for accountability, but when joint candidates are set up with Ferenc Gyurcsány and campaigned with him in the autumn municipal elections [[György Szilágyi: Should have been counted! The president's ringing the bell.]] and support the same candidates, then we really need to think about the fact that we did better by creating a Gyurcsány-Jobbik alliance, or we would have been better off if the rule of law institution was in better shape and able to account for Ference Gyurcsány. [[György Szilágyi: It took eight years!]] Unfortunately, the system of institutions of the rule of law which in 2010 had no or no retroactive effect on criminal law rules, so what the socialists left behind and had beaten before it was not fit to hold Ference Gyurcsány accountable. This is how today he continues to lie by finding new allies in the Jobbik faction and the Jobbik party. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-114	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Minister, Dear House, The case in question is particularly embarrassing because the Gyurcsánys only admitted it after they were involved with Cvetan Vaszilev after a press organ released the court-martial evidence of their cooperation. [[16.20]] Before that happened, they even denied knowing the Bulgarian oligarch. Klára Dobrev is going to the European Parliament, visiting European united states. He dreams of solidarity and social equality for all European citizens. But how does this utopian image fit him and his husband doing business with a businessman who robs private banks and sends assassins to reporters? Is this the kind of Hungary you really want for Klara Dobrev? [[Intercom from Jobbik: He even read the answer! Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-03-04-116	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-03-04-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The efforts of the Gyurcsány family to get into the Hungarian legislation and the European legislation and to stay in it are fully understandable, since the immunity is granted only in this form. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Let's count it now!]] So the intention is clear, and it is up to the Hungarian voters who are being sent to the European Parliament, which is why we always stress that the European Parliament elections on 26 May have a serious stake. The stakes are who represent Hungary and who are there, they represent Hungary in the European Parliament. We have seen many good and bad examples of this in recent years. I am very sad to say that good examples have been shown by the pro-government representatives. That's why we think [[György Szilágyi: Tamás Deutsch! How did they set a good example?]] that if a person wants to see national representation in the European Parliament, then candidates for representatives of the governing parties must vote in confidence. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-118	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congressman to accept the person of the responding person, or personally... [[Dr. László György Lukács: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Not long ago, it was discovered that Minister Miklós Kásler asked for money to save health care. All this came out after nine years of Fidesz government. He asked for HUF 1000-1500 billion, but let's also see what he asked: he asked that he could complete the program, the money poured into the concrete, and he asked for assistance for a public health program that would otherwise be eligible. But how much did he ask for? 1,000 to 1,500 billion. You could say it's a lot. Ladies and gentlemen, We have to say that we were right about everything. It is addressed to the opposition parties and experts, because for years now we have been saying that about that amount of money, even 600 billion forints per year, is missing from health care, and that is why we see that Hungarian health care is doing really badly. But there was a very talkative part in the Kasler justice plan and justice programme, and that is the fact that they should hold on in 2017, fellow Members! 24,000 Hungarian citizens who could have been saved if healthcare had done better died. That's 192,000 people in eight years! We lost this 192,000 people and his family. These families have suffered the greatest loss they could have suffered, the loss of a relative, simply because you, honourable Secretary of State, did not give as much money as you should have. You have the historic authority. You had the historical sin. They haven't done anything in nine years, and health services have been crawling around. It is quite obvious that Miklós Kásler admitted what was the government's health policy for the past nine years, eight years: leaving people alone; leaving them to die slowly. The 192,000 people who could have survived better in health care are proof of this. Dear Secretary of State, It's time to clear the air. What are you asking? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The minister with this money? Why did you wait so long? When are you gonna apologize to the 192,000 people who could have been saved? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-120	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-04-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Jobbik has a nice arch for the past eight years. When you arrived in Parliament, what you wrote on Kuruc.info was considered to be a reality. [[Tibor Bana: Who wrote to Kuruc.info? Who wrote you? The Jobbik never had anything to do with it!]] Of course, some people suddenly deny kuruc.info, because they can change their cape quickly, but they got there from keeping kuruc.info a 100% credible source of news, that today it is Népszava, which is a credible source of news to you, and if no one has seen any kind of plan, only a journalist of Népszava writes about it, you say that it is an existing thing, with exactly such numbers, like that, by the way. So we managed to get information from one extreme to the other extremes, from kuruc.info to Népszava, from non-comprehensive sources, not from the parliamentary committee meetings, from the various budget laws, from the various government decisions published in the various bulletins, but from kuruc.info when you like it, when there is a balliberal turn of Jobbik, from Népszava. We'll see to it that in four years' time, in eight years' time, what will be your credible source of news. But, honourable Member, in recent times, in which you believe nothing has happened, for example, since Miklós Kásler has led the Ministry of Human Resources, you have failed to mention the fact that the government has decided on a 72 percent wage increase for the workers and nurses, from 2019 to 2022, that the wages of the nurses will increase by 72 percent. This is a very large wage increase, especially if you compare it with the fact that this is not the first wage increase, since there was an average 27 percent wage increase in 2012-13. [[György Szilágyi: 24,000 people died!]] [[György Szilágyi: 24,000 people died!]] In recent years, if this year and the previous four years are compared with a 65.5 percent increase, i.e. between 2016 and 2019. (György Szilágyi: 24,000 people died!) These are, therefore, wage increases of which if you add to the increase of 207 thousand forints for doctors over two years plus 27 per cent for 2012-13. [[György Szilágyi: 24,000 people died!]] then you can see that what is happening is not what happens before 10, in the period of government of your new friends. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] health care workers' wages have finally increased, increased noticeably and the wages of health workers are increasing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-123	Dear Secretary of State, I know it hurts to face the fact that your past health policy has built everything to let people slowly vanish and pass away, to be lost in health care and thus to condemn to death those 24,000 people who, unfortunately, die in a worse-performing health care system every year. You know what, Mr. Secretary? I think it seems to me that if you go to the next constituencies in Vác, you might not have to carry sacks of potatoes, but a bag of letters apologizing to the relatives who have lost family members who can still be saved. I think it's the least you can do to apologize to them. But if I understand correctly, it is the case that the government does not want to give money to healthcare according to this, as requested by the Minister, but the government does not want to improve their health, and it seems to me that the Hungarian government does not want to save these people who could be saved. I repeat, we are talking about 24,000 people, Mr. Secretary of State. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's time to tell us what's going on with the Kasler justice plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-124	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-04-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's interesting to watch the good speeches like this, to say something, that something exists, and then to say that something doesn't exist, and they argue with themselves. I wouldn't get involved in this argument. Mr László György Lukács has a good debate with himself, I see, but I think that few people can deny that, according to the OECD survey, among the developed countries of the world, if we look at where, to what extent, health spending has increased, we can see the seventh largest increase in health expenditure in Hungary if we look at the scale of expenditure for citizens in real terms. This means that out of all the developed countries, there were only six, where there was a rise or slightly higher than the Hungarian one, and the seventh largest increase was this increase in resources in Hungary. So, honourable Member, I think that those who are the seventh to develop health resources among the developed countries, I think are on a good path, unlike you, who should really apologize once for the fact that at the same time his main activity was to convey doctors abroad. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Jobbik's health policy [[Dr. László György Lukács: That's not true!]] He's an exporter of medicine in the country, and I can only congratulate you on that. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Congratulations! It's time to talk about the Rétvári-hálasáték empire in Szigetvár! Intercoms from Jobbik: Oops! Oops! Smile's gone fast! What's going to come out! What's coming out of the bag!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-126	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask an immediate question about innovation and... [[Noise.]] My fellow Members, I would like to thank you if you would allow us to continue our work. Dear Parliament, So, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. When can the bicycle route between Nagykőrös, Summerfather and Cegléd be realized? Minister Péter Cseresnyés asked the Secretary of State for an answer in response to an urgent public task. I will ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members to make it possible for them to present their question. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2019-03-04-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to draw attention to the importance of an investment that would not only improve the quality of life, but literally save lives. It is the bicycle route to be built between Nagykőrös, Summerfather and Cegléd, the lack of which has been a permanent topic of speech in the constituency for two decades now. The citizens I represent are personally, telephoned and mailed to me about this development, and I must say, rightly. The bike in the Great Plain is an equal alternative to public transport and vehicle traffic for many. In our area, many people go by bicycle to work, shop, do business, or visit relatives. It is not a sport or a hobby for them, but the only means of transport. In my constituency, there are a large number of people living in a farmland outside the city. It makes their lives very difficult and even endangers the fact that they have to ride on the road, near and between cars. Several deadly tragedies have occurred in recent years. It is in our interest, therefore, that cyclists be able to run with the risk of a reduced risk of accidents. Dear Secretary of State, We did a lot of work on the site to build the bike route. The three settlements have assembled and made an investment plan for this only 14-mile, but more important section of the road. However, European Union funds are not available for construction in the Central Hungary region, and unfortunately they are not domestic at the moment, because from the compensation granted to the county of Pest, only inland cycling routes can be established, and not between settlements. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State when the bicycle route between Nagykőrös, Summerfather and Cegléd can be completed. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-128	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-04-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has made the development of undeserving cycling transport a priority sector for transport development between 2002 and 2010, as it is not only important for tourism, but, as you mentioned, for example, it is inextricably part of the daily lives of people living in the Great Plain. There is no difference between us about the need to develop cycling opportunities between municipalities in Pest County. On Highway 441, between Cegléd and Nagykőrös, both motor traffic and heavy bicycle traffic confirm the correctness of this government objective. Accordingly, two calls for proposals recently supported the development of cycling routes in Pest county. Within the framework of the Central Hungary, a competitive operating programme, HUF 1.9 billion and HUF 4 billion from Hungarian sources have already been provided for this purpose. In order to allow the 14 km long section between Cegléd and Nagykőrös to be included in the list of developments depending on the availability of additional resources, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology will take the necessary measures to prepare the bicycle route in 2019, in consultation with MP Márius Révész, the government commissioner responsible for active Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-130	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-03-04-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The good news for me is that the preparations for the construction of the bicycle road will begin, and they will start this year, and I hope it will be built in the coming year. This would be all the more important, because if this bike route were to be built, we would be able to ride a 40-mile stretch from Cegléd to Kecskemét. As the Secretary of State said in his reply, the truck traffic on this road is particularly high, the truck traffic in the north-south is enormous, and many accidents are also caused by the many trucks on these roads. I trust that the government understands and understands the words of the people who live here, and in the next year or two, this bicycle route will be built. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We consider cycling to be very important as an alternative mode of transport, and for this purpose in recent years, as I have already mentioned, several kilometres of cycling routes have been built in inland areas, within settlements and connecting settlements. We have broken off with the socialist notion that living in the countryside necessarily means a lower standard of living; that is what they once said. We would like to disprove this and set as an important goal that the rural way of life is at least as valuable if it is not more valuable than urban life and life. We therefore consider it very important for the countryside to be able to offer the same standards of living compared to the city. One very, very important part of this can be the development of cycling tourism, which can bring rural life to a higher level, and this requires the development of a bicycle road network. This is what the government considers very, very important, which is why we consider it important to develop cycling routes. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-134	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Hubay, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Whose interests would it be in the interests of weakening national border protection systems? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-03-04-135	I'll take it.
u2019-03-04-136	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-137	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, As we approach the day of the elections to the European Parliament, it seems that from week to week there are two pictures of the future of Europe that are in stark contrast with each other. Some people imagine the future of Europe and our country playing from George Soros's sheet music, so they want to create a community based on mixed societies without nation states. However, there are, and apparently more and more people who do not want mixed societies, but want to stick to Europe's history of thousands of years of Christian culture and the survival of nation states. However, the fight is difficult if some of the Hungarian candidates wishing for the European Parliament try to discredit our country abroad at all levels, and they themselves contribute to further strengthening illegal migration. Dear Secretary of State, As is well known, the Hungarian government was the first in Europe to contain illegal revolution, thanks to its effective border protection policy. However, in its recent programme, the MSZP would rather be working to break this down. Their main objectives include the strengthening of the European Border Protection Agency, also known as Frontex and the establishment of its exclusive border protection rights, significantly weakening and limiting the possibilities of Hungarian law enforcement and border protection bodies. Frontex has, by the way, proved itself in recent years. We have seen their achievements throughout southern Europe, where millions of illegal migrants have flooded the continent because of their inaction. We find it outrageous that a party wishing to represent the Hungarian people in the European Parliament, which, on the basis of its programme, clearly serves serial, pro-migrant and foreign interests. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has now been contributing for many years to the protection of the external borders of the Schengen area. The work done is effective and effective, the numbers speak for themselves. [[The president's ringing again.]]
u2019-03-04-138	The question, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-139	However, the question arises who would benefit from the weakening of the Hungarian border protection system, and what would Frontex...
u2019-03-04-140	Your question, Congressman, must be stopped differently.
u2019-03-04-141	... exclusive border protection rights for nation states. I apologize for talking a little longer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone has to follow the time frame. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go. [[16.40]]
u2019-03-04-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important Community value, and today Hungary is a safe country. From the outset, Hungary's position is clear that the external borders, the protection of the Schengen external borders, the obligation to protect the border at all is a national responsibility and a national competence. We do not allow this to happen, we do not allow this national competence to be transferred to Frontex or any other EU agency. We consider it important that all EU countries comply with this obligation, and in particular those with Schengen external borders should comply with this border protection obligation. So we have made it clear and we are now in the position that the protection of external borders is a national competence, and we are not giving it up. We will not hand over the gate key, we will protect Hungary, we will protect the security of the Hungarian people as we have always done in the past, almost four years. We thank all those border hunters, policemen, soldiers who have been involved in this and will continue to contribute in the future. As regards the possible role of Frontex, the role of Frontex in ensuring the Schengen external borders can only be supportive, complementary to the individual Member States, and cannot replace the responsibility of the Member States to protect the borders. So we can imagine that if an EU Member State cannot comply with its obligation to protect the external borders and ask for the help of Frontex, then we can imagine this participation. By the way, so far, Frontex has not yet protected a single kilometer. However, we believe it is important that the Member States fulfil this obligation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-144	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-03-04-145	Dear Secretary of State, Referring to your speech, we are not shutting down a reinforced Frontex, and we would even welcome it if there were an effective border protection system, such as that of Hungarians, throughout Europe, but I can only imagine this, and only in parallel with maintaining our national border protection. Hungary will continue to be able to act effectively against illegal migration, and we hope that the new European Parliament will support this in the future and will not attack it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-147	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary, as I said earlier, has fulfilled and will continue to fulfil its obligation to protect the external borders. This is why this country is making enormous efforts, and Hungary has provided more than one billion euros in resources to ensure this border protection. Despite our request, the European Union has not supported this protection, it has not reimbursed 50% of the costs as Hungary has requested in its substantiated submission. Nevertheless, the safety of the Hungarian people and Hungary will, of course, remain our first priority in the future, and we will be able to and will be able to comply with this obligation. As far as Frontex is concerned, we consider its complementary role as a supporter, its contribution to the request of the Member States. If this also contributes to the protection of a common Europe and the disappearance of internal borders, I think that this can be supported. But once again, this competence, the competence of border protection, must remain a national responsibility for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-148	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-149	Mr President, Dear House, In recent weeks, Fidesz-KDNP has started to force the idea of trust funds through the Hungarian parliament, committees, and they started to justify themselves in the debate with an upshot, when creating a form of foundation that is specifically used to manage assets of more than 600 million, in a preferential way. My question is very simple, Mr. Secretary. Do you think, based on your personal opinion, what social need, what pressure has been placed on you to be able to handle wealth greater than 600 million more effectively, with more favourable forms of taxation, the benefits of these assets, where appropriate, to convert public wealth, public money into private property, to convert and dispose of? And what kind of pressure has been put on you to extend this not just to the MTA, where you went with an ultimatum to give all your assets to a form of foundation, in exchange for maybe having a little say in your own life or not? What was the social pressure that is supposed to extend this opportunity to the assets of the oligarchs close to you, allowing public wealth to be disposed of, converted into private property, and, where appropriate, to be transferred abroad? What was the enormous pressure, the exuberant social need that forced the need to do so in such a short time, in such a massive way? After all, the end result is that, without a normal debate, in record time, they are trying to get it through Parliament. We are therefore interested in what preferential opportunities you see behind this new form of foundation, you see more favourable tax options, where appropriate, for the exploitation of property. And if they didn't, why did they push this so hard? Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-150	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-04-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, A lot has been said in the debate on this law, and it is also a mistake that has been made in this speech. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this bill is being discussed in the House's regular agenda, so we cannot talk about any urgency or swift and immediate legislation in this case. Again, I say that normal legislative arrangements are in place. Since there are no masses of modifiers, it may move forward more smoothly than discussing a great code, since it develops a sub-area. We also told you that there is no bail-out here, that there must be property in these foundations, and that there is a guarantee that this property is managed on guarantee terms. The kind of return that is generated must be clarified in the articles of association for which it can be used. The circle, such as the foundations of public interest, for which such a trust fund may be established, is identified. It is also mentioned that an auditor is required for these foundations, so transparency is fully ensured. If the assets, for example, are in companies, then obviously those companies are subject to the same tax rules as normal market firms. So this kind of vision, which suggests some kind of conspiracy here, is completely unfounded. Secondly, I can refer to international examples that in countries that were in a more fortunate position and had wealth in the past, this type of asset management exists. [[György Szilágyi: They didn't collect their assets in six years.]] Simply the development of Hungarian law, the Hungarian economy, has just come to the state that it has become necessary for us as well. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-04-152	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-153	Mr President, Dear House, I agree with Mr State Secretary on one thing: there is a similar form of foundation in successful Western European national economies. Secretary of State, do you know how long it takes for all these cars to be collected on average? Over 60-80-100-120 years, on family dynasties, across generations, for the treatment of wealth with decent work. Mr. Secretary. This concerns not six, not eight, or ten years of accumulated wealth, concentrated in the hands of people who, before 2010, were in this quoted market, let's just say they weren't at such a high level. And, Secretary of State, let's play with a thought experiment: can you give your name to the fact that, where appropriate, businessmen, oligarchs, in public procurements, in EU competitions, somehow gain billions of dollars, this is being outsourced to a family foundation, its profits and profits are being taken out of dividends, so that the former stolen public money loses its public money perfectly, and then, invisibly, do what they want to do with this dividend? And if the circle of beneficiaries, as defined in the Foundation's statutes, will contain only the family members of the oligarch concerned, I think we should continue this discussion. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] because it cannot go unpunished, such a clear way of circumventing public funds. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Interpretings at the same place: That's right.]]
u2019-03-04-154	Congressman! Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State. considering the extension. [[16.50]]
u2019-03-04-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To what has been said, I do not see Parliament as a forum for [[György Szilágyi: Because you can't deny it, that's why!]] to give legal further training courses to the opposition. But if we are talking about public money and when public money can become such a kind of capital or operating wealth or a profit or even a cost actually used, then we all know that the moment the state or the municipality has paid a contractor, we are not talking about public money. So, if someone would be like that after that, because let's see in practice who else is going to set up these foundations or actually turn it into a foundation for corporate development, this has nothing to do with public money. [[György Szilágyi: He lost his public money character. That's right.]] But I think you may still have lawyers left behind after Mr Staudt, ask for their advice on this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-156	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of János Stummer:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am speaking for those of you, respected fidesz people, who have been unjustly deprived of their dues; for those Hungarian people who have become desperately poor because of your decision, many of whom have lost the roof above the head of their families; for those who have been pushed into the hopeless darkness by you, many of whom have been driven into suicide. These are the tens of thousands who, for the first time after 2010, experienced on their own merits what the poor, the fallen, needy Viktor Orbán could expect in the next few years. They are the Hungarian citizens who were first attacked by their own state after 2010, who were first targeted by the system of national cooperation. Then you were right to say that the form of supply must be cleansed of abuse. But your hand was not guided by creating a more humane and just system, but only by saving a few ten billion forints on these families. The wrongfully taken money was not put into health care, it was not invested in enabling Hungarian workers to finally work in safer working conditions, not in order for our injured compatriots to regain their old self as soon as possible. With the stolen money, you built a stadium for your daddy, bought a chain of hotels for your little girl, posters of crap all over the country, and you also came up with a way to fill each other's pockets. Whether you like it or not, since the fall of last year, the Constitutional Court has decided that you stole from the disabled. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] When will the new review system be introduced? How will those affected be compensated and when? [[The president's ringing again. Gergely Gulyás: March 31st.]] And who of you is going to apologize to these people? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-158	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-04-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, All the decisions of the Constitutional Court have been followed so far by the Government, so it will also be observed, according to the deadlines set out in the Constitutional Court's decision, the proposal will be submitted to the Parliament. At the same time, Mr President, he left out from his speech that, in fact, the transformation of the system, the connection to the system, was important or not important for Jobbik. It is also interesting because you attacked the previous system, the system before 2010, very vehemently back in 2010. Your opinion has changed a lot in eight years, turning 180 degrees; I wonder how you think about it now. The most important thing for us was that those who were obviously a few years ahead of the pension should not change in the case of those who had already received benefits with similar amounts. On the other hand, who was not close to retirement age and who still had a realistic chance of getting a job and with employment, honourable Member, his income increased, we have contributed to this increase in income. For example, the introduction of the rehabilitation card, resulting in tens of thousands of jobs for people who used to live on welfare. Now they're getting multiples of previous aid as a wage. Obviously, this means more respect in their everyday lives, as one prefers to work for more money than to stagger from aid somewhere on the brink of being and not being. This was our goal to help tens of thousands of people contribute to the dignity of everyday life and contribute to the growth of incomes. Those who were not able to work and who were not close to the retirement age or who did not have completed the pension received a type of social benefit similar to that previously provided, and therefore the State's contribution to life support could have been achieved in this area. But our basic goal was not to increase the income of those who could be increased because they were able to work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-160	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State with potatoes, apparently. [[Peter Cseresnyés: How witty you are!]] has problems with understanding the text. So I asked you three simple questions, and you're wrong.
u2019-03-04-162	Congressman, your adjectives, I'd like to ask you to keep them for yourself.
u2019-03-04-163	So my first question was when they were gonna pay compensation to those disabled pensioners you stole from. Two: the deadline for the new review system to be implemented is 31 March. When will this be brought before the House? Three, who among you will apologize to the people who have been stolen and humiliated? Answer that, Mr. Secretary. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-164	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-04-165	Honourable Congressman, He did not answer how much Jobbik's position on this issue has changed. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: You must answer because there are three questions provided! The president's ringing the bell.]] And it seems to hurt you, Your Honour. [[György Szilágyi: Three questions are provided!]] I would be happy to repeat to you what was said in the two minutes. [[György Szilágyi: One.]] One minute to understand. We will implement all the decisions of the Constitutional Court within the deadline in the past period as well as now. What the Constitutional Court requires the Government to submit a bill as a deadline, the Parliament will do, and everyone will receive the benefit that can be read from the Constitutional Court's decision, in relation to this bill. But I would like to remind you that tens of thousands of people have gained much more revenue, precisely because we have touched this system, which goes back to the Horn period, so let's not analyze why and how they have done what you are protecting. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] So you're on the side of the Gyurcsány system because you didn't say that you should have touched it, and that you would continue to keep the masses, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people in poverty by aid, and not follow a policy like us, so that whoever could have it would have a job instead of aid. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Obviously, for a disabled worker with state aid [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] Since we compensate employers for the fact that they are obviously trained by a disabled worker (the president is ringing again). , additional work on a daily basis. We provide additional resources for this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-166	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It is 16 hours 57 minutes and 48 seconds, but the time frame has not yet passed, so following all the rules, as long as the time has passed, János Bencsik, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask Prime Minister an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[On the sign of János Bencsik:]] You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-167	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Manfred Weber, the Fidesz-supported European EPP candidate, said this weekend to Spiegel, describing Fidesz, that what is much, Viktor Orbán is on the wrong track and put concrete steps forward for the exclusion of Fidesz from the European People's Party. By the way, Fidesz's exclusion is becoming increasingly supportive and enthusiastic, not only of the left-wing and liberal European parties, but also of the European parties that define themselves as right-wing, Christian and conservative parties. These are your allies, by the way. And while there are these opinions, it seems that Fidesz is doing everything in its power to provoke their own expulsion or exclusion from the European People's Party. By the way, they are not only harming themselves, but primarily the country, because if you, Fidesz, are excluded from the European People's Party, it will not only reduce Fidesz's powers of advocacy, but also Hungary's. [[17.00]] Of course, you can say that you have not actually stood up for Hungarian national interests. They did not stand up when the Lisbon Treaty was voted unread in agreement with Ferenc Gyurcsány, who attacked many of you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who just spoke for the European Public Prosecutor's Office?]] They were not in favour of the European Citizens' Initiative, which would have reduced the pay gap between the Eastern and Western countries. They did nothing to deal with migration pressure on the European stage, beyond the fact that Hungarian tax forints and Hungarian tax-paying money were used to plant the country. Moreover, nothing has been done to support the autonomy and self-determination efforts of Hungarian communities across the border. So it is legitimate to ask how much sense does it make for you to be members of any European Union party family? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But given that they're playing the odds [[The president's ringing again.]] I would like to ask the Minister how much longer they will push the string. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-168	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-03-04-169	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, We represent a Hungarian national interest so [[Sounds from Jobbik's ranks: Ha-ha-ha!]] As soon as possible, and as far as possible. After the Jobbik according to our knowledge [[Lajos Rig: He's not a Lazarus, that's for sure!]] He is not a member of any European party family, so I can assure you one thing: our ability to assert interest in your logic is certainly much better than that of Jobbik. I hope that yours will also improve, despite the fact that there are countless reasons for this. Finally, I propose that an agreement within a group should be held at least before immediate questions, because you have now alleged as our sin that we voted in favour of the Lisbon Treaty, and we are just saying that the Lisbon Treaty properly divides powers between the Member States and the European Union. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Are you serious?]] Compared to this, you have a number of proposals, including a number of such proposals in today's session, which would further shift these powers to Brussels and take away powers from the Member States. In this case, however, I do not understand what your criticism of the Lisbon Treaty is about, since you would have gone far beyond this surrender of sovereignty. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-04-170	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-171	The problem, Minister, is that all the villains that Fidesz does burn to Hungary in the eyes of the European Union are identified with Hungary. The truth is that under your governance, Hungary is currently the second most corrupt state in the European Union. The problem is, you're not interested in solving the problem, you're interested in sharpening the problem and doing your best as a provocator. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This Jobbik is not typical of being a provocator!]] that these problems cannot be addressed and resolved at European Union level, but are used for internal policy purposes. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] You, Minister, said in a previous speech that there is a very serious stake in the elections to the European Parliament, and we agree with that. In the elections to the European Parliament, in May, the voters will also authorise you to contribute to theft of additional EU funds, their contribution to grinding down media that are even more independent of the government, in order to increase the manual control of the courts even more. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] contribute to bringing further sectors of the economy into full private hands and contribute to the... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2019-03-04-172	Congressman, your time limit is up. You're out of time, Congressman. I'm sorry. [[György Szilágyi: Interesting, after five seconds, Retvári's wasn't turned off! András Tállai: Stop yelling, Szilágyi!]] I didn't argue, Congressman. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: At least give him a round of applause. Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are getting hotter! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: This is not like you! Dániel Z. Carpathian: You got normal questions! András Tállai: This is not the middle B!]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás in return.
u2019-03-04-173	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We agree with the importance of the European Union elections, we also recommend that everyone take part in the elections and vote for the ruling parties, because it was only the representatives of the governing parties who consistently represented the national interests in the European Parliament. [[Tibor Bana: What national interest? Stealing?]] The Jobbik faction, as far as I can see, is made up of only three, but it's still split into three parts. I can only suggest that a coherent delegation capable of representing national interests effectively can travel to Strasbourg and Brussels. [[Tibor Bana: You support the national mafia!]] This requires that the governing parties get as many votes as possible. Finally, I would like to propose once again that we are ready for a constructive dialogue on the future of the European Union, but we should slowly decide, following the burning of the EU flag, that you want united states in Europe, that you may consider the current degree of integration desirable, or that you would withdraw or withdraw from the European Union. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] as previously stated. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-174	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:04 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. I would like to inform the Jobbik Group that they had ten seconds and that they have the opportunity to speak and do not be surprised that the time frame is being taken into account. Dear Parliament, We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to reduce the VAT burden on basic foodstuffs by CXXVII of 2007 on general sales tax. T/3732 amending Act T/3732 Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-175	Mr President, Dear House, It seems that we could go on a more peaceful basis in Parliament, since it is a proposal that is particularly professional. There are two obstacles to this more peaceful sailing: on the one hand, the lack of pro-government attention, respect for the exception, because some Members remained here, on the other hand, the ratings, the style that Fidesz-KDNP brought into Parliament today are clearly for a party conference. I understand that during their youthful socialization they seemed to fight communism, but the fact is that the same methods, bendings, even expressions are almost literally recalled here in the House in 2019, which is an amazing experience. A few words about the proposal itself. Reducing the VAT content of basic foods is not only a matter of national economy, but also of humane nature, and we must add that the government has a right purpose in which I support it. This is the stated goal, and we hope that this is also the real restoration of the Hungarian coral and the restoration of the Hungarian population balance. It would be more honest to say to the government that the fall is slowing down, as there is a clear fall in demographic terms under the Fidesz governments, and even government lying cannot compensate for that. I wish we didn't, but unfortunately, we do. It would be worth focusing on different forms of family support, changes to the tax system, reaching all the social groups involved or affected, so that they can not only move up from the upper middle class, but also give a positive message to those young people who are flirting with the idea of emigration, or who live in such a difficult line that the purchase of basic food, can be said to be more difficult than those who, by their luck, are faced with a very high VAT key in Hungary when purchasing a luxury yacht. It can be said that, in terms of two factors, the attitude of the government is unsustainable and impertinent at two items, since it has been sabotaging the adoption of opposition proposals that would reduce the VAT content of child rearing articles; it is now the highest in Hungary throughout Europe, 27 percent. The other is to reduce VAT on the whole range of basic foods. We have already talked about this today, that selective selection of a product, some VAT reductions affecting 5-7 percent of the consumer basket in the first round, could not be effective and combined with a price increase in VAT reductions because they did not pay attention to substitute products, which have been trickily priced by traders in such a way that they could not reach the customer in any way and did not pay attention to the market themselves, so they failed to develop guarantees of consumer protection that could guarantee that a VAT reduction would result in a genuine price reduction. At the same time, we are also experiencing contradictions within the government regarding the VAT reduction of basic food types, as I was told at a committee meeting in the Committee on Economic Affairs two weeks ago that this is an old proposal, essentially the only obstacle being that it would cost about HUF 150 billion in the first round of the budget. I would like to stress that, given the whitening of the economy, the positive side effects, the multiplier effect, this amount will return to the budget in a few years, with no measurable loss. At the same time, we also need to see that the barrier created by Fidesz, this HUF 150 billion, has been found four times and found in the Hungarian budget by Jobbik's experts, either vaguely or spent for completely pointless purposes, so there is a budget reserve for everything. [[17.10]] I will just quietly add that the state support for housing savings has been abolished by Fidesz, which it has won in a quote, but it is possible to give complete social groups a positive gesture and a discount that these people need in the light of the economic policies of the last few years. We therefore call on you not only to reduce the VAT content of basic foods selectively, but also to reduce the VAT content of basic foods in full. At the moment, the Hungarian budget would have room for manoeuvre, in my view, to bear these effects that seem to be passing out in order to have a longer-term, absolute positive vision, where with various consumer protection guarantees it is also possible to guarantee that we do not walk like pork or other articles that the VAT reduction has been followed by a price increase. It would therefore be very important for Parliament to make a unanimous decision on such a positive, philanthropic, humane solution, because I would like to emphasise once again this not only in the interests of the national economy, but also in the question of fairness. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now speak in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and the first independent Member may speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2019-03-04-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The LMP supports the inclusion of Jobbik's proposal in the series. We have stood before to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%. We have seen, of course, that the Fidesz government has started to reduce VAT on some products, but we consider this insufficient and we consider it insufficient. We also said that it should be extended to the most important food groups, vegetables and fruits, because not only the rich want to eat healthy, but also the poorer people. What we see is that, in the context of climate change, the price of basic food has also started to rise dramatically in Hungary, and we see that vegetables and fruits have also become extremely expensive. It will now be such a symbolic example that the prices of carrots and carrots have tripled in one year, a kilo of turnips is already 1600-1800 forints, more expensive than meat, the price of potatoes has doubled, and the price of onions has increased by 80 percent, but it is expected that in the coming years there will be even more increases. However, we see that these price increases do not tell you much, but of course we understand, because when we look at the bill here, we always see that they are on the side of the rich and the multinationals. However, we also know that there are a lot of poor people in the country, that food represents a very high proportion of their spending, so it would be time for a comprehensive, wide-ranging VAT reduction. We ourselves are asking our fellow Members, the Party of Government, to support this proposal. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-178	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-179	Thank you very much. Dear House, Allow me to say a few words, although this debate has been held in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and on the other hand, Mr Sándor Farkas has already responded in quite detail on a similar subject, but I would like to give a brief summary. There is no doubt that it is always possible to raise a reduction in VAT, there is a government with such a tax policy and a programme, so I think that properly, gradually, as the Secretary of State has said, considering the effects and it is not only a loss of fiscal revenue, but also a market environment, other laws, the application of the compensatory premium and a lot more, so I think that this programme is moving forward and that the government will propose the application of the 5% VAT rate in due time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The point has actually been expressed in the counter-argument of my pro-government fellow Member: this VAT reduction will take place in good time, but we cannot wait for the right time. There have been very important social aspects and sector-whitening aspects, but I think, for example, we need to look at public health in a double line for a few ideas. So while we want this to come from government communication, at least, so that the Hungarian people can live healthier and feed as variedly as possible, in parallel, the non-reduction of basic food VAT will help and start processes that are exactly the opposite. We are now really at the moment of finding Hungarian onions, potatoes and countless other vegetables, fruits in a chain of stores, it is a challenge, almost impossible mission, and this is indeed related to the rate of VAT, as we expect the sectors that are otherwise extremely demanding for extra work to compete with those who appear unfairly, even VATfully, with the same goods on the same market. It's absurd, it's unpredictable, and of course it doesn't work. I think it is worth looking at in this respect, and it should be stressed that, if my fellow members of the Government really want to be here, too, so that there is still someone who produces Hungarian vegetables and fruit with such an expensive workforce, then the right market conditions must also be created, i.e. that there really is a need to create competition, but in such a way that it is fair and equal conditions for everyone. And if we reduce VAT, logically, for a 5% basic food, if we look at it logically, the level of VAT fraud will not be worth it, and in this way, fair players could also have a competitive advantage, and we should push for and promote this. It's just that as an extra reason, I couldn't take two more minutes here to highlight this from the Jobbik faction's point of view. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, independent. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a long-standing proposal, which has been discussed on several occasions by the House or by the relevant committees. Even around December 2012, during the first submission, I was among its signatories, its proposers, and my opinion and my colleagues' opinions have not changed since then, because we have supported any proposal that has reduced the increasing burden on people today. A lot of arguments have been made, by the way, I would like to point out one thing: that the political will or the lack of political will really decide when the majority of governments will allow this to pass through their filter, because here the aspect of whitening the economy and the public health aspects go far beyond the difficulty of putting the proposal into practice, that if this significant, complete VAT reduction on the entire spectrum of basic food is done, then it will appear in consumer prices, or it will swallow it, in an ugly word, it will absorb trade, and in fact, the benefits of VAT reductions are stuck in traders. Well, that's what the control system is for, and that's what the authorities that are supposed to control it have the power and competence to control it. At the same time, of course, we consider the proposal to be eligible, and the Group of the Hungarian Movement will support its inclusion in the series when voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2019-03-04-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since I do not see any other candidates, I would like to ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Z. Carpathian on Daniel's mark:]] You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2019-03-04-185	Mr President, Dear House, Firstly, I would like to thank all those who have spoken about this for their support in principle or in practice. For me, the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs was also a positive experience in that it was basically professional and free from the amazing ratings in plenary, and it was able to stay above a certain standard, which is not to be underestimated in today's circumstances. I would like to note that when the Government says that it will think of fully implementing this proposal at the right time, we are, therefore, nine years behind the government's governance. So let us be skeptical about the right time, because over these nine years, more than HUF 20 000 billion has been taken out of Hungary by multi-companies without tax, which is a brutal amount, so if we had channeled only one minimum percentage in tax form, it would have been equivalent to a mini-Marshall plan. [[17.20]] The Minister of Health and Health are asking for a thousand billion-dollar order to keep the health system on its feet, while hundreds of thousands of people have migrated from this country. In such circumstances, waiting for the right time at least creates ambivalent feelings. At the same time, there should be immediate intervention in three areas so that these harmful effects calm down, so that thousands and tens of thousands of others do not migrate from Hungary. One of these would be to reduce the VAT content of child-rearing articles. The second is the reduction of VAT on basic foods mentioned here. Thirdly, a public housing program would help. We were talking about the second leg. I am pleased that, in essence, the professional counter-argument cannot and cannot be said in relation to the reduction of VAT on basic foodstuffs, but the detailed rules of this, the conduct of this debate, would require that this proposal receive the majority of votes in plenary. And I hope that, once in a while, there will be a solution that all parties recognize as binding on themselves and can and will follow through government cycles. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-03-04-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports and the discussion of the draft amending proposal between the International Investment Bank and the Government of Hungary on the publication of the Agreement on the seat of the International Investment Bank in Hungary. The government referral is T/4476. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-187	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 February 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/4476 agreement between the International Investment Bank and the Government of Hungary on the announcement of the seat of the International Investment Bank in Hungary. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal, the summary report by the committee of the House Rule 46. By 23 votes in favour, 8 votes against. Ladies and gentlemen, The International Investment Bank is a multi-national, country-wide development bank which aims to strengthen social and economic development, prosperity and economic cooperation between Member States. The change of seat is in line with the goals of the Hungarian government, since it is clear that Hungary's capital city, Budapest, will become an international financial centre within the region. With this step, an important institution will enrich the Hungarian financial portfolio, which can also facilitate the international market access of Hungarian companies, and will significantly increase the proportion of Hungarian labour in the institution. Several international credit rating agencies have also positively assessed the transfer of the bank's seat to the Hungarian capital. The move of the International Investment Bank to Hungary is therefore a recognition for the economic policy followed by the Hungarian financial government in the last 8 years. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Gábor Gion, Minister of State, on behalf of the rapporteur, at this stage or at a later stage of the debate... [[Gábor Gion: In the end...]] Yeah. Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. You have a ten-minute time frame at your disposal. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-04-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Amendment 1 to the International Investment Bank's summary amendment proposal is about changing the title of the bill, which we do not see precisely why. According to the amendment, the proposal for the seat of the International Investment Bank in Budapest is, in fact, about a change in the statutes of an existing document, emphasising that it was founded in Moscow in 1970. I ask my fellow Members why it is important, in hindsight, to change the title of the proposal in this way as a Commission amendment. The next problematic part is still linked to the termination of the previous contract and the re-binding, to which no substantive reply was received at the committee meeting. In 2000, the Hungarian government terminated its contract with the Russian development bank, and in 2015 they agreed again. Government communication in this regard was that this financial institution had not yet been transparent and functioning, but since then it has undergone a lot of changes, it is now in a good position and is fully transparent. The LMP takes the view that the move of this bank to Budapest is only another step in increasing Russian influence. The Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to serve Russia's interests, as demonstrated by the signing of Paks II. also investment contracts, which are of particular benefit to the Hungarians. Not to mention that today we should not be encouraging the construction of a nuclear power plant, but encouraging the deployment of renewable energies. LMP cannot support the move of the Russian investment bank to Hungary. This measure raises a lot of questions, which is likely to be in close contact with Hungary's worst business. Therefore, not in favour of this bill, we also demand the termination of the Paks contract. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2019-03-04-190	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-191	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad you're here. Welcome. Allow me to use the name KGST Bank in connection with this submission. This is not my rating, I am not qualified, articles and treatise appeared in the Hungarian press typically with such news or in such a presentation. In fact, I would ask you, taking advantage of your presence here, because the decision to be taken, the orientation is greatly helpful, and it would help us to get concrete answers to our specific questions, as would be the custom in a normal parliament in a normal country. The first of my specific questions is what kind of social and economic development this institution's seat is, because that is what we are talking about; it is an institution that is still in place. Both Hungary's share and its involvement in the amounts allocated are around 10% or more in all of this, so it cannot be said that the Hungarian national economy would be shaken or the presence of this mass of projects would start very much in the other direction. And I would be interested to know specifically what projects are expected to support and credit the emerging party, as analysts typically suggest that the government will limit itself to resources for the KGST bank that it cannot solve through EU funding. Therefore, it seeks to find external resources for projects of a different nature. I have already said in the general debate that, let alone, I have no objection to the acquisition of the mass of resources or types of credit from several directions, this is a necessity in a normal economy, but not under such conditions as this is before us, and not by the unwarranted, perfectly unilateral discount of an institute, which we have no well-enabled and delimited interest in the national economy, since neither Minister of State nor fellow members of government have stood up, they have not said that, in particular, in connection with this railway investment or infrastructure investment, the need for resources which they are now trying to satisfy is possible in connection with road renovation. We don't even know from informal channels what you really want with this institution. The solution mentioned by my fellow Member is incomprehensible at committee level. All in all, we would therefore like to know what social, economic development specific objectives the KGST bank's headquarters are for. And we also see that on this, so-called, or living in folklore, institution can't compete with an OTP Bank, whether by examining the mass of its resources or its size. So we have strong doubts as to the degree to which this process can contribute to national developments or booms. [[17 .30]] We therefore ask for your information in this regard. You may also understand, Mr State Secretary, that asking for support from the opposition is not too sincere if you keep from us the mass of information that is clearly available to you, but would require rowing to an area unknown by the one-off opposition representative. Obviously, you have negotiated with this institution, and we have already signed the papers for which you are only about to ratify them. Let us know what they have agreed on, what they have agreed on, and if they are able to set economic development goals, which are on the path of decency, then I will certainly be there for them. But it would be very difficult to support this proposal in keeping with this mass of information. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-03-04-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak under the item on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-04-193	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, First of all, I would like to thank you for the constructive cooperation you showed during the parliamentary hearing of the bill. The majority of the issues raised here and the issues that have been raised so far, I believe, have been resolved in a satisfactory manner at committee meetings. We have shown that the privileges and immunities granted to the bank are not new, they have already been included in the current Statute of the Bank. Hungary and the other Member States of the Bank have already granted them to the NBB. The Statute of other development banks with international legal personality provides for virtually the same privileges and immunities. The most important condition for the International Investment Bank to move to Hungary is fulfilled by the adoption of the bill. Following the publication and entry into force of the Act, the bank may begin to carry out the relocation. We provide a temporary location for the placement of the NBB during the initial period. The legal and financial conditions for accommodation are being developed. The final disposal is still under negotiation, and the appropriate location is currently being selected. I would like to repeat what I have already said: the amount of the financial contribution that Hungary will make to this will be determined rationally, within the limits set by the budget, in order to increase Hungary's ownership in return. We are convinced that NBB's business portfolio in Hungary will increase significantly with its settlement in Hungary, with its Member States that include several continents, it can also facilitate the access of domestic companies to the external market, including dynamically expanding markets for which we had limited opportunities in the past. During the expo, we pointed out that the majority of the bank's ownership is owned by the EU countries. Therefore, the claim that this is a Russian bank is not correct. It's an international bank. I would also like to draw attention to the bank's outstanding assets, which is available on the bank's website. Half of the loans allocated by the bank are recorded to companies in the EU Member States, which account for about 20% of the portfolio in Vietnam, Cuba and Mongolia, with only 14 percent of the Russian exposure. The remaining part is intended to finance investments in non-Member States, but with exports from Member States. I believe that this confirms that the bank is an independent institution taking into account the interests of all Member States. As the bank moves to Budapest, a new institution appears in Hungarian financial life in a physical sense, adding to its palette and expanding the opportunities offered to Hungarian businesses. Dear House, In view of this, I ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary [[February 2015 February 2017]] The debate on the Commission's reports submitted on the adoption of the report on the subject. H/3606 submitted by the Judicial Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the President of the Commission, Mr Vejkey, if he would like to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] I give you the floor, Mr President.
u2019-03-04-195	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Nationality Speakers and Nationality Representative! At its meeting on 20 November 2018 the Committee on Justice of the Parliament discussed the situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary [[February 2015 February 2017]] B/2160. It decided to submit a report and a proposal for a decision adopting it. The joint general debate of the report and the resolution proposal was held here in the Parliament on 20 February 2019. In the debate, the report was supported not only by the governing parties, but also in particular by the Roma minority advocate and the German minority representative. I believe from the opposition's comments that the appropriate comments in the debate actually supported this proposal for a resolution. I ask you to support it in the future. As rapporteur for the Judicial Committee, I will inform you of what has been said at the Justice Committee meeting. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the President that you have 7 minutes and 20 seconds before closing. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Thank you very much.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to thank President Imre Vejkey for his speech. Since no one has expressed their opposition on behalf of the Government, I would like to give the floor once again to President Imre Vejkey, rapporteur for the Judicial Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2019-03-04-197	Mr President, Thank you again for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Judicial Committee held a detailed debate on the proposal for a decision as a committee appointed at its meeting on 26 February 2019 and unanimously, with 8 votes in favour, no votes in favour and no abstentions, decided to comply with the regulatory provisions. No amendments were tabled to the motion and no amendments were expressed in committee and the committee closed the detailed debate on 26 February 2019. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-04-198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-199	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten und als der Vorsitzender des Ausschusses unseren Standpunkt erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to inform you of the resolution of our committee as a representative of the nationality of Hungary and as chairman of the committee. [[17.40]] At its meeting on 26 February 2019, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary discussed the report on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary and H/3606. Decision No 44-45 relating to the report and its detailed discussion was carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. According to Section 84 of the House Rules, since our committee is the House Rules of Decision 84. Paragraph 4 of this Article constitutes a committee related to the debate in respect of the report. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary unanimously concluded that the proposal for a decision complies with the provisions of the House Rules 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. I would also like to inform you that the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary has not tabled and has not submitted a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate. In the last parliamentary period, I have started a significant part of my comments, for example in the reports on the implementation of the 2013 and 2014 budget laws or in the report on the nationality government for the years 2013-15, because I am in a lucky position, because I can express my professional opinion honestly, without any influence, without any strings attached, because the nationalities living in Hungary did not have much to do with the preparation, adoption or implementation of these laws. However, I have now read this government report for the year 2015-17 with a very good feeling, as this is the first two-year ethnic material to come before Parliament, both of which have fallen into the parliamentary mandate for the two years under consideration, and there is hardly any part of it that if one had read it, it would not have felt a significant positive change in relation to the previous ones. Significant progress has not only been made in the extent to which national national authorities, the institutions they maintain, the support of local minority authorities, the ethnic tender frameworks, the number of national minority public education and cultural institutions adopted by the national authorities, but also in the direction, extent, scale after the previous six to eight to ten years, and sometimes nearly a million years of change, which rightly shaken and gave a new vision of the future to the nationalities living in Hungary. I would like to stress here that in these historical changes, I think it is not about the person of the parliamentary advocates and the minority representative, but the parliamentary mandate, the committee of Hungarian nationalities, the possibility of parliamentary nationality work, the systemic change. I am quite sure that, according to this report, we talked more about the nationalities living in Hungary here in the Hungarian Parliament than in the previous 20 years. As a result, Hungarian politics, the Hungarian majority society also received significantly more information, information about indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, our situation, our opportunities, our problems, our goals, our achievements, and a series of intensive, forward-looking negotiations and legislative processes that really improved the situation of Hungarian nationalities in a meaningful and qualitative way. Therefore, in spite of all the problems and additional tasks which have been significantly increased due to the growing educational and cultural autonomy, I would like to again express my sincere thanks to the former and current governments, the former and current Hungarian parliaments, all the factions, the decision-making government fractions, and the opposition factions in support of ethnicity decisions and the independent representatives. I would like to conclude by saying that the real rights granted to Hungarian nationalities will bring the greatest advantage to Hungary and to Hungarians across the border. It is very happy for us that both the former and the current Hungarian Parliaments, the former and the current Hungarian governments, have understood this, confesses, and it controls their actions and decisions regarding indigenous ethnicities in Hungary. May God keep their good habits. On this basis, as a representative of the Hungarian Nationalities Committee, I would like to inform you that the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is the B/2160 proposed by the Government. 1) and by the Judicial Committee H/3606. He unanimously agreed with his proposal for a resolution and proposed it to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2019-03-04-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I ask you, one of my fellow Members wishes to take this opportunity. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask President Imre Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, on behalf of the rapporteur, to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Mr. President.
u2019-03-04-201	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the speech by the German national representative. I think that this has provided a very nice framework for what this two-year report actually means. What I can tell my fellow Members is that I propose that the committee, as well as I myself, and our fellow Member Imre Ritter, adopt this together with the H/3606. I would like to ask for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposals for trust foundations and the summary amendment follow up. Government referral T/4513. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2019-03-04-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that T/4513 on Trust Foundations was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 28 February 2019. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 24 votes in favour and 6 votes against. The purpose of the bill before us is to offer the foundation to investors as a trust institution. The bill allows for the establishment of a special form of foundation which, using the property assigned to it by the founder and the income derived from it, carries out asset management in order to carry out the purposes and tasks specified in the articles of association. A multitude of international examples show that we are talking about a well-functioning institution, but there is also a social need [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] we have also heard examples of the construction, in the previous speeches, in support of this social need. The proposal before us provides an appropriate regulatory environment to open the way for professional asset management within the framework of a foundation, with effective safeguards, and therefore, in the light of all this, I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill with their votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-04-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am now going to ask your rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Interventions by Members are now taking place within the time-frame on which the agenda is to take place. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group. [[17.50]]
u2019-03-04-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I repeat what I said in the keynote speech, that it is a shame that such a bill is brought before this House, and it is a shame that the government has not yet withdrawn it. The TAB modifier has made it clear, which we already suspected, that one of the government's main objectives with this bill is to outsource MTA's 500 billion-dollar assets in some way, and I'm sure some of it will be stolen. This would certainly ensure the possibility of setting up such a foundation, the right of control by the government over property and research revenue. Of course, it usually takes place through such appointed stuntmen. To do this, however, we also need to see that it will result in the destruction of the network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which is extremely damaging to Hungary's present and future. 'Cause what's gonna happen? Researchers have been in an uncertain position for some time, and the result will be that researchers, who are talented, acknowledged and who are involved in the foundation of Hungarian science, will leave, and they will certainly take part of the projects, because in many cases these research funds are linked to people, because they are usually won by those who have completed them. But what we see is that the government is not very interested in this, and in general the government is chasing only the short-term profit, and it is afraid that it will be destroyed out of the desire to profit, out of the desire to control everything by hand, the Hungarian scientific life. But there is another serious consequence of this bill. Of course, they will talk less about this, because it will involve Fidesz simply opening the way to conceal and indeed to extricate huge assets from the burden of public burdens. At this moment, I am not saying that some kind of tax will not be charged, but you have not been able to bring it here in parallel with this bill, whether anyone who will put it in here and gain it will pay taxes, how they will participate in public burdens. But we also see that experience also shows that you have said that yes, successful, and the example of other countries shows how great it is to create such trust funds, but they also show, and they are deeply silent about it, that this foundational wealth management in the world is, in fact, one of the popular tax avoidance tricks of the world's wealthy elsewhere. Because they pay less taxes. In addition to tax havens, this institution is perhaps the most important instrument in the world for the extreme growth of financial inequalities. And you don't want to see it, you don't want to face it. And yes, if you vote in favour of this law, you will once again prove that you are party to the rich, to the tax evasion and to the multinationals. But I would also like to note that we see that this law fits in with the halving of corporate tax, profit tax, when the multi-key player was turned into a single key, when 170 billion forints were simply removed from the budget. But it is also linked to the introduction of one-key personal income tax, when you supported not the poorer, but the higher-income, the wealthy. Once again, we ask the government to withdraw this bill and do not keep it on our table, it is unfortunate that Hungarian society is still breaking up, it will only strengthen this situation further. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Dear Parliament, Secretary of State says he doesn't want to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Today we have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas, and now we are going to have speeches after the agenda. I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, in a five-minute timeframe. The subject in which you wish to speak, Congressman: When will the money with which teachers have been shortened over the years be returned? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, Mr President, for reading the title of my speech. Indeed, when will they return the money that was taken from the teachers' pockets in four years? It's a hundred billion dollars. For some, this is obviously a bagatell sum, for example, in 2017 the assets of Lőrinc Mészáros increased by HUF 160 billion, but teachers and teachers who have been shortened by the government since 2015 are very much absent from the family budget. It is necessary to examine the condition of those people, those dedicated teachers who pursue the profession, who are entrusted with the light of our eyes, parents with the light of their eyes, their children. They're overloaded and underpaid. It is not by accident that only 40 of 100 graduates who leave college and university start this beautiful career, and within a few years, one third of these people will certainly drop out. On the part of the government, it is a very sad and very deceitful thing, say, to consider these teachers as a kind of public benefit ubermensch, who are working for nothing today only because of the love and dedication of the profession, so they will draw the yoke and raise the generation of the future. In this case, it is the fact that the HUF 101 500 2014 minimum wage projection fund has been unchanged for the fourth year now, and with the help of the payroll gauge set up by the Teachers' Union, it is easy to calculate the damage caused by the government's failure to raise or adjust this projection fund year after year to the rising minimum wage. There should be no misunderstanding, and I would very much ask that the pro-government side do not turn out this speech in such a way that Jobbik is making too much of the current minimum wage, perhaps exceeding the guaranteed minimum wage. There is no such thing, not enough, but even less, even more shamefully, where the teachers' wages have sunk in this way. At present, a college graduate starts this beautiful and responsible career with 182 700 HUF, so that if he has a master's degree, this is a gross HUF 203 thousand per month. The guaranteed minimum wage is 195 thousand forints, so this is how much the government values the person who deals with the future generation, the country's hope. It is no accident that this wage pressure gauge has caused a serious increase in blood pressure in many teachers who have looked into how much less they receive from month to month. In the case of a beginner, this is a gross HUF 51,000 per month, but in the case of a master's degree on the field three decades ago, it means HUF 100,000. Once again, obviously on the pro-government side, there are a lot of people who don't mean anything by the amount, but in the life of a teacher, it's a serious sum. There is a reason for the trade unions, the Teachers' Union, to demand that substantial progress be made in this regard, as this cannot remain. Obviously, it also needs to be added that money should not be spilled unnecessarily into an ineffective education, because that would be completely pointless. Indeed, education must be sacrificed if they are, in particular, in accordance with Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. They develop skills of the century, such as creative thinking, and they add to the development of social competences, and this education is indeed problem- and project-based, as Jobbik imagines. [[18.00]] In 1676, an Englishman named William Petty spoke of human capital. In the 1960s, Schultz developed this into a scientific paradigm. The thing is, the Fidesz government is gonna shake that thing off like a dog. If this were not the case, they would have to realize that the place occupied in the social inequality system depends, in a significant part, on how much one can put itself on the cultural dimension and how much education has added to its human capital. We say that in order for this education to provide quality in Hungary, effective, effective and fair education is necessary. And the teachers, Mr President, I ask you to hold on to your patience, but they will do their part, because according to the education efficiency index Hungary is 4th among the OECD countries in this order, ahead of, say, the 25th place Germany. Effectiveness is quite another thing, in which we are very ill standing, and another thing is fairness, in which we can also boast with very bad indicators. Let's change it. We'll take care of it. Listen to our suggestions. Thank you for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-meeting speech, which, today, was not mentioned in the T. House, which should have been discussed. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-04-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is so much not to be said because of barriers to content within the walls of Parliament, and there are a lot of topics which, on the other hand, are desirable here. Today, I have prepared a topic that I think is a very small insight into health care, but a very important confirmation that everything is not all right in the 21st century. In our 100th-century health care. And that is the question of hospital donations and donations. It is clear that in a healthcare system where the state may not spend enough money to care for hospitals, health care facilities and how to be equipped, workers, relatives, patients try to make it better, make it more comfortable, make it more suitable and safer. It's not just in health care, it's everywhere else. Even in transport, if someone does not finance their bus services properly, for example, or if the seats are very bad, then sooner or later travelers will try to compensate for it and somehow resolve the fact that this community service will be more bearable and safer. Well, that's what people try to do in health care, and a lot of times, logically, if the state doesn't spend on it, they spend on it themselves. If there are no civilians, we often see that health institutions in Hungary are in a much more difficult situation. And what is the trend in Hungary? Well, we see that in many cases, foreign celebrities and media personalities help health care, otherwise in poor condition, at home. Perhaps everyone remembers Terence Hill's last action, the action of the Hungarian sunny afternoons. It was Terence Hill who organized a fundraiser for one of the home hospitals, precisely to give the patients who are recovering a little better opportunity, a little better life, otherwise taking a considerable burden off the state. But Ruby Rose, a less well-known actor or less frequently seen actor, who, walking through Uzoki Hospital, saw that horror states prevail in Hungary in the hospital. I would add that Uzsoki Street Hospital is one of the best hospitals in Budapest, so if you wanted to see worse, you could have gone to worse places. However, he also thought that there was something to contribute to the success of Hungarian health care, so he donated tools and toys to patients and children. That's when you find out where social responsibility is on NER's part. I wonder why we can't see that Lőrinc Mészáros, who became the richest in Hungary at record speed, and I think he is a thousand times richer than Terence Hill and Roby Rose, who should soon be given or donated to Hungarian hospitals. It shows up all right when you have to go on a private plane to the Maldives, when you have to parade with a luxurious yacht in Croatia, or when you can buy an Osijek football team, but you never once thought about adopting a hospital, let's say, adopting the most lavish hospital in Budapest or adopting one of the most difficult hospitals in the country. But likewise, the NER buddies, all the other oligarchs who grew out of Viktor Orbán's treasure chest, are not rushing to help Hungarian hospitals, Hungarian health institutions. Instead, there are small people who, as we can see, provide all kinds of gifts. There's been a dad here who's painted a ward, there's people who've given me TV, there's people who go there to read stories. Obviously, we wouldn't ask Lorraine Mészáros to go in and read a story, because his story would already be transparent about his enrichment, because everyone knows that he's really a stooge, no one would believe that story. However, Hungarian civilians also donate gloves, disinfectants and other devices to hospitals. And then let's stop for a moment and see what the problem is, because it seems to be a problem for the government. We can see the case of Heim Pál Children's Hospital, when a father is a father so that parents don't sleep on the floor with their children; on the ground, the parent knows exactly what a humiliation it is to sleep in a public institution on earth at any time. Well, these parents and this dad were saving up to have a bed like this. This is the kind of world the hospital refused to live in! But when they found out there was a lot of civilian pressure, they suddenly let the state get these beds. In fact, we had a fellow Member who had brought his bed from another institution, which he would have given to the hospital in a bad situation, simply refused because they said that they did not need a donation from a political player. Ladies and gentlemen, Here we go. The civilians, the small people, would try to save Hungarian health care. But we can ask why Orbán's circle of friends does not contribute to improving health care. Why not, if, by the way, at the budgetary level, all the existing money has been skimmed? Ladies and gentlemen, Let us pay attention and be open to such donations, because we do need to help health care. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-04-210	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
