u2019-06-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The first day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament will be opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in leading this meeting, notary Dezső and Lajos Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting for the period from 17 to 21 June 2019. He indicated in the annex to his letter all the proposals that the Government initiated to negotiate at the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament. The letter and its annex can be found on the website by Members. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The European Parliament election moved the country, took away two thirds from Fidesz [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] and beyond Budapest and Budapest, many other metropolitan cities have developed such proportions and directions [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Rates and directions?]] which are very positive for the Democratic Coalition and for everyone involved in the change of government. This is necessary so that the rusty gates of freedom can be reopened sooner or later. Today, the Orbán government expelled me and pariahs in the European Union. It takes a law back, and they write secret letters that, of course, leak out in order to somehow snoop back into the European People's Party, not somewhere on the right side of the European Parliament, between Nazis and all sorts of suspicious, corrupt-looking figures and parties, but should somehow belong to the European mainstream; this is also the result of the European Parliament elections. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the European Parliament's election not only sends us a message that the majority of pro-European forces were in the European Parliament, and that all those who had been remembered by Viktor Orbán a few days earlier as heroes and happily paraded with them in the Carmelite monastery are now around 10% of the European Parliament with their parties. The Democratic Coalition would like to state here and now that it strongly supports opposition agreements for municipal elections, and I would also like to point out that this is also a joyful and positive turn of events, because even six months ago, it would have thought that there would be alliances in different parts of the country in which DK, MSZP, LMP, Momentum and Jobbik could participate. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who would have thought? You guys denied this was ever gonna happen.]] We consider this to be extremely important, because there is nothing more important in Hungary today than to weaken the Orbán regime, the Orbán dictatorship, and the local elections will give us another opportunity to do so. Neither the number nor the number of cities where these agreements have been concluded, and not only the mayors have these agreements, I would add, in Budapest, but also the individual districts are being broken down into this kind of cooperation. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition also welcomes the LMP's decision to participate in cooperation in Budapest last Friday. There are no votes wasted on Orbán, or perhaps not on Fidesz's side, that could be wasted. All votes must be collected in order to bring about a change in the country as soon as possible. This is necessary so that the rusty gates of freedom can be reopened. This kind of cooperation is also necessary because if there is a change in the municipalities on that particular evening, there suddenly and very quickly see events in Szombathely [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Migration Committee in Szombathely?]] a change of national size can also be achieved. Suddenly resources are distributed, suddenly divided, and suddenly local party media or media can be taken back from Fidesz [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He says things like that! Amazing! Is he drunk? Did you open the morning with Tibor Szanyi?]] and all of these could help the opposition bring the country closer to what the majority of the country is waiting for by vote, and this is the change of government, so that the rusty gates of freedom can open again. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Say that again.]] [[13.10]] The Democratic Coalition therefore supports these cooperations and we hope that they will continue to widen. With the increased responsibility of DK, which was entrusted to it by the elections to the European Parliament, it will try in every way to facilitate these cooperations, whether in the capital city or in the districts, or in county seats or in smaller cities. And this is necessary so that the rusty gates of freedom can be opened as soon as possible. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: One more time. Fifth time!]] And that's because this system that you maintain, Fidesz is maintaining right now, and I'm quoting Géza Jesenszky, you know, your former ambassador, who says that everyone involved in maintaining this system is guilty. [[Peter Cseresnyés: His son too!]] And the interesting thing is, I agree with him. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in opposition lines.]]
u2019-06-17-2	Here you go, Secretary of State. Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary.
u2019-06-17-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I find it difficult to understand mathematically why the result of the European election means that the governing parties in this House have lost two thirds, so I do not want to respond to that. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Must be a prime number!]] Now we can see that opposition parties have turned to the municipal elections, but unfortunately this time it does not mean that they are making sound, realistic proposals, but rather something else. The usual left-wing casting is now underway, and this means that opposition parties are cutting each other, drilling each other for control, and all this is called a pre-election by verbal, beautician intervention. In this big left-wing fight, we see again that as many days, so many betrayals between their own lines, so many dagger stabs in each other's backs. Let's see, say, the marauding stage in Budapest. First, they claimed that DK had nominated for a new candidate at Momentum, and then Ferenc Gyurcsány said that they had been thinking about a new candidate for weeks. The autumn horse foot hangs out elsewhere: you were the one who said a few days ago that the Presidency convinced Ferenc Gyurcsány that they should withdraw the support of Gergely Christmas, but István Vácsó already talked about the fact that Gyurcsány convinced the Presidency. Perhaps you should ask your president for phone help, who will tell you exactly what a valid lie is. By the way, we see that when a current lie comes out, they lie about it. The great expert on prime numbers can now write a thesis from the power of lies. As a parenthesis, I would add that Gergely Christmas is the last person in this country who has not noticed that Ferenc Gyurcsány's truth indicator often shows zero value; this raises serious issues of competence. We can ask now that it is good, good, but why do we deal with this, why do we deal with this left-wing fight. Because what you are doing to each other now, you would do to the country, you would do to the municipalities, you would do to Budapest, you would fool the Hungarians just as you have done so many times. Let me give you one example. The MSZP and SZDSZ fought the same way a few years ago in the case of subway four. Well, they weren't trying to figure out who better to do the job, they were trying to figure out how to make more money, and the cost of that was a third of the subway money gone. You probably know a lot about this, so if you would like to support Budapest, if you would like to help the people living in Budapest, then you will publish the information that has been withheld so far. In other areas, the price of left-wing governance has also been high. When left hand was the case of local governments, it meant nothing but indebtedness, deteriorating public security, bleeding out health care and weakening public services. We don't want this period to come back again. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It was very typical last week, the cover of one of the week's headlines, and it showed that we needed a new set of characters! And who was the new face on the cover? Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Wow! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] So 13 years after the shootings of the eyes, the Autumn speech and many years after the severe restrictions, Ferenc Gyurcsány, on the left, recommends Ferenc Gyurcsány to the attention of the Hungarians, and this is the case even if Ferenc Gyurcsány sometimes appears in the form of family members and sometimes of former journalists. There is something else, honourable Member, that I would like to respond to. Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife seemed to be well settled in Brussels, immediately started with minework, and, according to good left-wing traditions, she started her activities by announcing that if Hungarian government parties were to be given important positions, Hungarian politicians would be given important positions in Brussels. I think this is scandalous, honourable Member. This is exactly what we talked about in the campaign: that we would like to send to Brussels those who represent Hungary there, whereas you represent bureaucracy and speak against Hungary; this is untenable. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Shame! Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] We see that the election has brought no change in this regard, you will put a shovel on it, that is the case. Their soul is on it, but it is good to know that the anti-Hungarian policy in this country has never been majority, and I do not think there will be. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2019-06-17-4	Dániel Z. Kárpát also applied for a pre-meeting speech from Jobbik:. What is the extent of the change of population of the government? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-5	Mr President, Dear House, During Sunday, two men of Mongolian nationality argued at one of the so-called workers' hostels in Deer, one of whom attacked his good friend with a knife, and hospitalized was the end of the action that could not be described as an individual. On a systemic level, we can see that, along with the government's so-called labour hostel construction projects, it is importing foreign workers to Hungary in bulk, with a much larger number than 100 thousand people. We also have to say that history is repeating itself again, because when criminals broke out of the so-called refugee shelter in Debrecen and we warned you several years ago that a large spiral of migration and public danger will emerge from this by spreading various forms of crime, we were told that there is no such problem, that there is no migration problem in Hungary. This is what a Fidesz Secretary of State told me about five years ago. The thing is, unfortunately, history has confirmed us. And now we see that by staying in this small peaceful town, we can say that Vasipari Zrt. with its reduction 400 Hungarian people lost their jobs, Pannon Lúd Kft. At the same time, Gallicoop in Deer calls Indians, Ukrainians, Mongolians, with a typically lower wage level than is customary in the Hungarian sphere, and usually when it comes to overwork or overwork, it is more convenient to bring in foreign citizens who are considered to be more manageable. I would also like to say that the government's action plan, called economic defence, would not only interfere in the interests of Hungarian workers, as it is clear that it is good and beneficial for large multi-enterprises, but also puts the Hungarian workforce in a more difficult position by opening up the work-hosting programme not only to local authorities, but also to the entrepreneurial sphere, so also to the government's strategic partners, the multi-enterprises. We are talking about the multi-companies that do not participate in public burdens in Hungary. If we look at the budget lines now before the budget debate, we see that this government draws massive thousands of billions of people's VAT payments, but in the corporate tax column, where the taxes of multi-company companies should appear, we see a tiny percentage, in fact nothing. There is therefore no public burden in Hungary, but there is a unilateral pampering of multi-company companies, just as it is in the period of Gyurcsány-Bajna, which I do not respect in economic policy and in any other way. And I would also like to say that the action plan, called the economic protection plan, is only exploding this process, does not create a barrier to forced emigration, strengthens labour imports, thus contributing to a change of population, a change of population. If we are talking about the mass imports of Ukrainian, Turkish and Indian labour, it is worth examining a country where this process started earlier and it is worth examining where this process was headed, because we must not be where the action is taking place, but where the ball will arrive at the end of the attack. But Hungary's Government is behind again, because we can see that if we look at Poland, the number of migrants in five years, if you like, has increased to eight times the number of migrant workers, and according to the study published in the Financial Times, if emigrants are counted from the real number of people, Ukrainians now make up 4 or 8 percent of Poland's population, so somewhere between 4 and 8 percent. For this, ladies and gentlemen, only five years was enough. In the light of the current population and reproduction processes, the unfortunate Hungarian eclipse, along with the fast emigration of such a mass labour force import, is considered economic treason, supporting and collaborating with the multinational companies. And what does the Government of Hungary do? It serves the accommodation of 300 guest workers for the renovation of HUF 1.4 billion in Kecskemét. I would like to add here that, in Kecskemét, 52 of the institutions left from all other historical ages have been accommodated at the hospital. In Tiszaújváros 3 thousand migrant workers, mainly Turkish, work with 12 billion state subsidies. In Newpesten, a working hostel with Cyrillic inscriptions is inaugurated at the hospital's place. What if it's not a classified population exchange, what is it if it's not an assist in changing populations? I would like to tell you that you have one choice: not to serve your strategic partners, the multi-companies, through these treacherous processes, but to put them under public burden, and finally to be the first to be spoken of in this country. Hungarian workers, the Hungarian taxpayers, are the ones who carry this country on their backs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-06-17-6	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as jobs are concerned, I think you know very well that we are talking about the opposite trend in terms of jobs. This was the government that reduced unemployment from 12 per cent to less than 4 per cent, and in other respects, more than 800 000 new jobs have been created, largely in the market sector, honourable Member. Regarding the impact of next year's budget on people living on wages and salaries, he forgot one thing: the employer's tax will be reduced by 2 percentage points. This means that companies will be larger, Hungarian companies will have room to increase wages further. I very much hope that your speech does not mean that you do not support this tax reduction. I regret that the entire economic protection action would not be supported, otherwise, like left-wing parties. As for the rest of his speech, he is trying to pretend that nothing has happened in recent years. I would like to make it clear to you that if someone wants a population exchange in Hungary, it is not the government, it is the opposition. Unfortunately, in recent months and years, Jobbik has joined this line. Your accusations are strange because we don't know exactly what kind of consideration, probably for reasons of power, but you've been joining the left for years in attacking the government's immigration policy. That is why they did not support the referendum, which is why they did not vote for the amendment of the basic law, which is why they called the border closure a failure, and, by the way, they have confederated and confederated with them to this day, in all the back room negotiations, who voted for everything on the fly in Brussels, which even slightly supports migration. After that, accusing the government of supporting immigration is more than a smile. Even the foreign press, even our foreign critics, have noticed that the government, the Hungarian government, is opposed to migration. As far as working abroad is concerned, it is an EU fundamental right. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Even the Mongols.]] As I understand it, you do not want to leave the European Union right now, while you have argued against membership. I would also like to say to you that the proportion of people living abroad in the region is only lower in the case of the Czech Republic than in Hungary, but more and more people return home in 2018, more people born in Hungary than in Hungary. Your new allies told the Hungarians that it was possible to leave. We do not consider it our task to tell the Hungarians where to work, but our task is that a better, stronger country awaits the returnees. This is the direction in which more jobs, more family support and reduced taxes are being introduced. As far as foreigners working in Hungary are concerned, this is where they mix the season with the guy. Since you have dealt with economic issues before, there is strong suspicion that you are deliberately trying to mislead the Hungarian public. Like other EU countries, it is possible to work abroad in Hungary, but this has nothing to do with migration and mass migration. These posts are limited, legally available, we know who is arriving for a temporary period, and that does not mean that they will be granted citizenship, nor can they stay here permanently. So what I would like to say to you, honourable Member, is that there is no change of population here, and as long as this government is in office, there will be no change. But we see a change of soul, the Jobbik wants to replace his soul. They're turning a national party into a party that, if it had a logo, would have a "Gyurcsány light" on it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are sick!]] We simply can no longer quote a single proposal from you, not a single thought that is a little different from any DK speech. I don't think it's possible to exchange souls, by the way, because a community either has a soul or it doesn't. And if it's lost, it's gonna be really hard to get it back. You are suffering from this right now, honourable Member, but you are taking the wrong path, and that is why crowds are leaving Jobbik. Nevertheless, I wish you a great deal of strength to renew and a great deal of wisdom for the renewable faction leadership. You are not needed alongside Ferenc Gyurcsány, but on the national side. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2019-06-17-8	The next speaker before the agenda will be Mr Lajos Korózs, on behalf of the MSZP, on current matters. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-9	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The weekend passed for health workers by the fact that Mr. Miklós Kásler and the State Secretary in charge of healthcare announced a very lousy wage-raise programme. Of course, I put this in a quotation mark, because then, seeing, hearing the interest organisations and their statements, it turned out that the location of the maiden was not nearly as beautiful. They said that there would be an 8 percent wage increase from 1 July, and then, if we looked into our memories, it turned out that this had been promised in 2016 and 2017 and that there was nothing else but a missed wage increase. Then it turned out that there is quite a lot of confusion in the system by translating it into the language of numbers, all the more so, because some rumors suggest that HUF 15 billion is intended for this increase or increase in wages, and then Minister Gulyás said something about HUF 35 billion, but I think I will return to that. Meanwhile, the interest representatives also said that if this wage increase is realised on 1 July, it will be sufficient only for the minimum wage and the minimum wage, as many health professionals will be able to receive this wage. But in the language of numbers, this also means that about 15 percent of healthcare workers do not even hit this level today. What can really be done to give recognition to these people who work in health care? Above all, the recognition of progress, the recognition of traineeships and the recognition of loyalty. I think that none of these items will stand up, because at the moment neither the government, in terms of traineeships or careers recognizes loyalty in Hungary, nor does it provide any extra, not even moral recognition for healthcare workers, that would really deserve them. A lot of people seem to confuse basic wages with salaries and income. Wage and income are all separate statistical categories and economic categories. When the basic wage is 200,000 forints, the average is 340 thousand forints, only those who want to distort this situation, want to slip, and they say that all the income that a worker has earned is put in a hat and divided by the total number of employees there, of course, they will get such an average. However, this includes not only the starter working by the bed, but also the wages of the leading doctor for several decades. That's one thing. The other thing is that it is visible, and the interest representatives have also pointed out that the salary, pardon, and income of those who work 1.5 times as much as they can normally, because they achieve this income by working too much work, night pay, holidays and weekends. This 8 percent increase, which was announced, means an average wage increase of HUF 4,000, as the interest representatives mention, and it also took three years to do so, as I mentioned earlier that this increase was mentioned in 2016. So from now on, I also think that these people deserve much, much more. The Chairman of the Chamber of Experts said that today 35 percent of the workforce is missing from the health care system. The minister himself admitted in an earlier press conference that some 24,000 people died simply because they had not received adequate healthcare. Today, it has become an inn where more people die from hospital infection in Hungary than in road accidents. But it is not better for nurses either, because here, besides nurses, the nurses also received this announcement on Saturday, presented by Ildikó Horváth. Your president said that we are pleased that we are finally able to pay our women on a sectoral payroll, which we have been waiting for since 2013, I stress, since 2013. From now on, I think that an 8 percent wage increase is rather smileable. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mr. Secretary, don't answer to me, answer to the nurses, the hospital staff, the doctors. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-17-10	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is some charm that the representative, who was part of the government that took one pen stroke from all health workers, all Hungarian nurses and all Hungarian doctors on a request from Brussels and IMF for a month's wages, stands up here in Parliament, and says that the wage development and wage raising program that has been going on for several years is little, few, few. Honourable Congressman, You've gone far, only in the wrong direction, because you've reduced your wages. There was no other government in Hungary like you, who are sitting in the opposition now, who would have taken me away from Hungarian health workers. Because there's always a debate about giving more or more to health workers. I think that every person has a good feeling about this, and they want to give health care workers as much as possible. But not only did someone not give more, but what was in their pockets was also removed, honourable Member, it was your health wage policy in Hungary alone, since the change of regime in the last 30 years. Only you dared to do it with the Hungarian nurses and doctors. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! Miklós Soltész: Shame! Noise.]] That their wages were pulled out of their pockets and their wages were reduced. On the other hand, honourable Member, you are talking about the fact that you were expecting that 8 percent four years ago, but you forgot to tell me what happened in the last three years. From 1 September 2016 we raised the salary of the workers by 26,5 percent [[Szabó Timea: You've been steering for nine years!]] , then we raised it by another 12 percent from 1 November 2017, then we raised it by 8 percent from 1 January 18. He forgot to say these things: the three years of waiting were 26,5 plus 12 plus 8 percent. Then, from 1 July this year, not from November, but from 1 July, there will be an additional 8 percent increase in the wages of health workers and the wages of the workers. In the past, for the first time in 2012-13 for both the workers and doctors, when the unfortunate consequences of your economic policy were in the Hungarian economy, but we were able to make a 27 percent wage increase because we used the income of the chip tax, as it was, for a health wage increase, and we have spent it on it ever since. So there was a 27 percent like this. If you add up the last few years, 2016-17-18-19, you can count on a 65.5 percent wage increase, honourable Member. This means that the person whose income in 2010 was 159 thousand forints in the last year of your government, as a career-starting health care professional, will earn 159 506 forints, and will earn 334 093 forints this year. A specialist who, in the last year of your administration, earns 364 thousand forints in a hospital with a longer practice, will earn 853,000 forints this year. [[Szabó Timea: This is such a lie!]] Indeed, as you said, this is not just the basic wage, but also the additional benefits. Who then 159, now 334. [[Szabó Timea: Is this your KSH?]] Shout, Your Honour, and then check the numbers. You mentioned the women in charge, Congressman. The defender who made 153 thousand forints in 2010 in the last year of your government is now earning 329 thousand forints. [[Szabó Timea: Is KSH Soros?]] You have also mentioned that there will be an 8 percent increase in the employment rate from 1 July this year as well, but there will be a 14 percent increase in the next year on 1 January, and an additional 20 percent increase in the employment rate from 1 November next year, and another 30 percent increase in the employment rate from 1 January 2022. I say this to the politician who married me, I stress that he took a month's wages from all Hungarian health workers. [[Szabó Timea: Recommend a review of the payroll!]] I am here to give you a list of these increases, and you are criticising them, honourable Member. Of course, he didn't support either of them's budget bases. I do not think that in the next year's budget we can count on you or any opposition representative to vote for the budget for wage increases, that HUF 152 billion. Thus, until 2022, in the wages of the workers, in which you have unfortunately not only missed, but have even taken off that wage, this year, next year, then, until 2022, we can talk about a 72 percent increase. Of course, everyone would like to raise not 72, but 82 plus 172 and higher percentages. [[13.40]] Just, you know, honourable Member, there was no government in the country before 2010 that could provide cover for these wage increases, but it was one that was indebted to the country and, moreover, reduced wages. We have also reduced public debt, and we can also increase wages. If someone wants to see for sure in the future that the wages of healthcare workers in Hungary are not falling, but are rising, it supports Fidesz-KDNP, not opposition parties. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] because your speech, honourable Member, was nothing but a yearning for power. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-12	Now it's time for Bence Tordai, on the part of the Dialogue, about the current affairs. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, In the last few days there has been a heat alarm in Hungary, which has affected the elderly, children and patients in particular, but has made life difficult for all of us, especially in large cities. In Budapest there were records of heat. The temperature went up to 35 degrees, and that means that the walls of the house are up to 70 degrees, the stone you estimate is 50 to 60 degrees, and the grass is about 20 degrees cooler than that, but apparently, Fidesz has no idea what to do to stop climate change and what to do in order to adapt to climate change. It's XX. The summer period was already extended eight days from the beginning of the century, if you look at the number of hot days. It's more than 1.5 degrees hotter, and the average temperature will continue to rise, another 1-2 degrees means another 12 more rough hot days. And by the end of the century, when the average temperature is 3-4 degrees Celsius higher than during the industrial revolution, the number of hot-wave days increases by 37. We're going to die in the heat! Of course, you don't sense any of this, because from the well-conditioned office you get into your well-conditioned car, and from there you get to the well-conditioned villa, but that's not how most people live their lives. For example, the majority of people in Budapest travel by metro, where this weekend the train line 3 was 34,8 degrees in the trains. Gergely Christmas yes, she didn't rest, she went down to the subway, and she measured it. [[Moore, sporadic applause, cheering, voices from the benches of governing parties, among others: Oh! å Bence Tordai spread his arms.]] the temperature in that subway, regularly... [[The president's ringing the bell. Szabó Timea towards the benches of the governing parties: You too go down! It's been a long time!]] He's on the subway with you.
u2019-06-17-14	You are being asked to refrain from expressing your sympathy, fellow members of the Government.
u2019-06-17-15	Unlike you, on the right-hand side, we, decent Members, yes, we also regularly travel by public transport and by bicycle, and we feel the heat. And the residents of the big cities, the public, feel that it's 35 degrees, because your Russian friends were only able to transport subway cars that didn't have air conditioning. Even though the Estonians gave 9 billion cheaper offers for air-conditioned, completely new subway cars, you have to serve Putin, you didn't serve the Budapest people when you got these excellent subway trains. So at the same time, metro line 2 was 28 degrees in the car, which is a liveable level in subway 3, which you spent hundreds of billions on, 35 degrees. So that's what we're talking about, and that's why, hopefully, the next mayor of Budapest, Gergely Christmas, built his program to create a living and livable city with the support of the people of Budapest. One of the most important points of this is to create the new lungs of Budapest, to create a new large forest in Budapest, to create a green corridor, to connect Margaret Island to the Roman coast, and to increase the quantity and quality of green surfaces in general. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: defeat Gyurcsány!]] For your understanding, I will translate it into a football field: Budapest needs a thousand football fields of new green surface; about one and a half percent of the city's territory would be a new forest, a new park, a new green surface. That's what we need. This is what can be done in the coming decades, and this is what really serves the interests of the people of Budapest, which you ignore, because Budapest has no longer one mayor, István Tarlós lost the Mayor's character, Budapest has only one Fidesz governor, who is implementing the gigantic but completely useless developments that you wish to enter in history. In order for Budapest to be alive and liveable, we also need to radically rethink transport. The car dump that strangles the city must be repressed, and in the interests of all Budapest, a comprehensive Budapest transport aid must be introduced. Gergely Christmas's programme also proposes this. While car drivers are now supported by the municipality by free parking of HUF 11.5 million a year, we would also support everyone in community transport and other mobility asset users. To this end, we would cut back the price of annual rents and shift as many people as possible to public transport so that the city could live and not turn it into a car park. This will be done by the next mayor of Budapest, Gergely Christmas. We say no to the stealth Olympic program, the LOP; we say no to moving to the castle, the Liget project. Instead, we guarantee green development, instead this BKV support and a solution to the housing crisis in the event of the election of Gergely Christmas, for the benefit of the people of Budapest. Thank you.
u2019-06-17-16	If anyone thought that the President of the Republic had already announced the day of the municipal elections, they would be mistaken. Do not draw the wrong conclusion from this comment! Would anyone like to make a statement on behalf of the government? [[Bence Tordai and Timea Szabó keep interrupting.]] Mr President, I am pleased that you managed to deliver a municipal campaign speech in the spirit of speaking before Parliament's agenda. [[Moraj from the benches of opposition parties.]] If you'll allow me, however, the government will respond to you. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés, please.
u2019-06-17-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Yeah, we heard a campaign speech from you. If you are no longer listening to you through other forums, it seems that Parliament is being used to support a party with a rather serious lack of hope at the forthcoming autumn municipal elections. But another thing came to my mind in your speech. Looks like it's summer, and opposition politicians start running around with room thermometers. Last summer, if I remember correctly, they tried to prove that the Danube was boiling, and now they're trying to prove it. [[Szabó Timea: We managed to...]] That there is unbearable heat everywhere where you want to prove this unbearable heat. But the fact that you can travel on Metro 3 at all, or that Mayor Gergely Christmas could go down to Metro 3 for thermometers, is due to the fact that after 2010, the government and the capital created substantial financial resources in order for this subway to work, because your allies at the time of standing on them, in the time of Gábor Demszky or even in the time of the socialist government, did not spend a penny on this subway. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: That's right! Shame!]] His condition has completely deteriorated, with traffic being dangerous recently. That is why it was decided to renovate the subway section with not little money. This means, for example, that your allies are under government... and the reason why we need to emphasize your allies constantly, is because if they were to lead the city and govern it with you, then probably the same period and the same kind of politics, economic policy and city policy would come back, which was then, because I don't think you've forgotten anything when you make promises, it's just a promise, because one of your leaders, who is called Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Bence Tordai, pointing to the benches of DK: There he is!]] He kept saying that you could lie in the morning, noon and evening, if it was in your best interest. So, back to what happened in the pre-2010 period, what kind of inheritance was left to the capital, for example, [[Szabó Timea: You've been ruling for nine years...]] I would like to tell you that BKV Zrt. It has accumulated a loss of HUF 53 billion, and the capital has accumulated HUF 217 billion in debt at your time, in the time of your allies, without any substantial transport investment being made at this time. [[Bence of Turda: 35 degrees in the subway!]] The renovation of Metro 3 trains and its orbit, which should have been completed at the time, was not paid, neither political attention nor sufficient resources were paid. Now both the capital and the government are committed to providing accurate, safe and useful public transport for the Budapest public. Therefore, the metro line M3 has been renovated and will be renewed. [[Bence of Turda: 35 degrees!]] This is why the decision was made to modernise metro 3 with a comprehensive reconstruction of the track structure, tunnels and stations, while making it safer, by renovating the trains that used to operate there. Renewal of fittings involves the installation of a number of modern technical solutions [[Bence of Turdai: Unmodernized...]] and seized which reduced the heat production of the vehicle, and [[Bence of Turda: 35 degrees!]] in the future, the modern brake energy recovery system will also be installed, which will further reduce the amount of heat leaving the vehicles. Thus, the heat load that passengers feel is expected to decrease. [[Bence of Turdai: What luck!]] Unfortunately, it should have been said that the metro trains should have been adapted to a climate change that would have exceeded the technical scope of the renovation. [[Bence of Turdai: Should have bought new fittings!]] Regardless of this, of course, BKV Zrt. continuously examine the technical possibilities that may be suitable for subsequent air conditioning of subway fittings. In doing so, there are ongoing discussions with the manufacturer of the fittings on the existing technical barriers and the technical conditions for implementation. The mass of modern air-conditioning equipment under development today can already be used to install them with a new technical solution. They're being investigated. [[Tordai Bence: When? Szabó Timea: After nine years?]] [[13.50]] Although you guys are having a really, really good time here, I think it would be better to talk about why these upgrades and renovations didn't happen when the first problems occurred. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-18	Next up is László Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group, with the title of the budget for the survival of the future.
u2019-06-17-19	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Well, actually, we're here on an election campaign at the Parliament meeting today. I think that it can be noted that Parliament's meeting should not be used for municipal campaigns by opposition representatives, but then I think that reprimanding would also be justified to the pro-government representatives. We have seen in the last year that the members of the government use the Parliament's meeting for campaign purposes not only in an election campaign or during an election period. However, before today's agenda, I would like to talk not about an issue of political policy or policy, but about the beginning of the budgetary debate. Speaking of who's using Parliament for what, well, this is a period of budgetary debate when we find out what the government's worldview is, and what kind of policy the government really wants to implement or enforce in the case of a country. There is propaganda on the one hand and there is reality on the other, and you have taught us that what the government is trying to do or what the government is failing to do is not what they say, but what they are doing, and what the budget numbers tell us is what the government wants to do or what it is that the government is failing to do. Overall, we can say, given the structure of the budget, the philosophy of the budget and the number of budgets, that this is the budget for the future. It can be seen from the main figures of the budget that the government still does not want to face the most important social, economic and environmental issues that we face, and which my opposition colleagues have also referred to on some issues. We can say that budget losses include higher education, the social system, the whole countryside, the losers, municipalities and the maintenance of public services are also the losers of the budget. In my speech before the agenda, I would like to ask questions, I would like to raise problems, but we can say that these are rhetorical questions, because I do not expect the competent member of the government to answer in a few minutes; these are not questions that can be answered in a few minutes. Rather, I would like to point out the issues which must be the subject of the debate in the next period of the budgetary debate. We're saying that the government has put in a budget for living the future. Yes, my fellow Member Bence Tordai spoke about the effects of climate change on environmental issues, and how he can react to this, let's say, a city or a local government itself. Well, we can see that a major part of the country is already declaring a crisis or crisis in the context of climate change. The Pope also draws attention to the importance of this issue, the importance of this struggle. On the other hand, the government continues to deny this issue and wants to spend less than last year on environmental protection, specifically environmental protection. I'm going to mention some numbers. In the next year's budget, instead of 482 billion from last year, there is only HUF 385 billion in addition to environmental issues, and 140 billion for municipalities at the level of public finances instead of 247 billion. Why do members of the government think that we can excuse ourselves from these extremely serious challenges? But we can also remember Mr Csaba Dömötör's speech: today, the most important challenge for the nation is the issue of forced emigration. We know that more than 600,000 people have been forced to leave the country for livelihoods due to government policy, and what is scary is that there are at least so many people still living here, but they plan or consider it a possible option for their own lives to leave this country. And unfortunately, we can conclude from government policy and from the budget that they do not want to face this problem, they do not want to act. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, said that they would deny the problem. Didn't you say, Secretary of State, that in 2018, more people had returned home than they had left? [[Robert Szigó: That's not true!]] Well, we know that according to the statistics, that's not true. There are many more people who are leaving today, and last year in Germany there were more Hungarian children than ever before. So the issue of emigration remains a current, highly current problem, which you do not want to answer. I would like to mention one more question about the situation in the countryside. We have repeatedly said here in various debates that they have still not been able to take action to catch up with the Hungarian regions that have fallen. We all know the situation of the Hungarian villages and the Hungarian countryside, especially in rural areas. You have launched various programs, the, the Hungarian village programme or the question of the village CSOK, which obviously has positive elements. But if we look at the fact that the most important infrastructure in the countryside is dying at an accelerated rate under your governance, then why do you think that these measures will be useful or effective? Last week's interpellation revealed that you are planning to refurbish a few hundred kilometers of road, lower road, even though 16,000 kilometers await immediate intervention, and this year you will spend more than 60 billion forints in the budget for the renewal of the Budapest-Belgrade railway line to implement any real travel or transport needs. But we can say yes, and that is what my fellow Member from Turda mentioned, that you do not give the cities the right state resources to carry out their mandatory duties, but to prepare for the 21st century. The challenges of the century. And yes, your budget is the budget for the future, because by failing to act, you will not only make solving these extremely serious problems difficult in the future, but will make it almost impossible. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-17-20	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Tállai.
u2019-06-17-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A little ahead of the budget debate, I would ask the LMP for patience, since the budget debate will start on Wednesday, and from 8 a.m. to 30 a.m., Members will be available to discuss in detail what the 2020 budget is about, which the Government of Hungary has submitted to the Parliament. Contrary to you, it is in no way possible to refer to the budget for the use of the future as the budget submitted for 2020 as a budget deficit target of 1 per cent, the budget deficit has never been so low and, at the same time, the EU debt ratio will also decrease by around 2.5 per cent. But if we begin to compare numbers between 2019-2020, I would just like to say to you as an example that more HUF 224 billion in support of families, 48 billion more for education, HUF 184 billion more for health care, HUF 136 billion more for pensions, HUF 238 billion more for public finances and HUF 174 billion more for defence and police expenditure in 2020 than in 2019. I think this budget is the result of the government's work in the last two cycles. This budget is a budget for Hungary's security, and the budget for families living in Hungary is complemented by an economic protection action plan recommended for businesses. It is very important that this budget, including the fact that the State Audit Office and the Budgetary Council have also declared it sound, is not a year's performance, that now the 2020 budget is this way, but is the result of the budget and economic policy of a strict and responsible government from 2010. It is very important to highlight the increase in support for families, as for Hungary, the child is the first child to hold the family together. It is very important that, as a result of the family policy measures so far, the European Union has the largest amount of support for families in Hungary compared to GDP. [[14.00]] It is also very important to mention that inflation will increase by 2.8 percent, which can be put into European economic processes. It is macroeconomic data, economic growth, that underpins Hungary's secure budget, which proves that the economy has increased by 5.3 percent in the first quarter of this year, which is the first in the ranking of the EU Member States. It is very important that the government has done a great deal to ensure that this economic growth is stable and predictable in the long term. It is important that the budget deficit has always been kept in mind so that we can reduce it, but in recent years it has been able to do so together with a reduction in taxes, both corporate tax and a few VAT rates and, of course, personal income tax. It is very important to mention once again the financing of the debt ratio. We have recently launched the Hungarian Public Paper Plus bond, which proved to be very successful, 539 billion people lost in one week, which proves that the population trusts in the Hungarian state. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] trusts the state budget, trusts the Hungarian government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-22	As the leader of the KDNP faction, Mr Péter Harrach applied for a pre-op address between two elections. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-23	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are between two choices, it is appropriate to take a snapshot not only of the present, but also of the recent and the near future. The election of the European Parliament and the election of the local government are behind us and before us, of course, the most important question is what the political force represents, but before that, perhaps a few words about the result and the technique. The elections to the European Parliament did not surprise me, but some reorganization did. The ruling parties have brought their form, they have grown stronger, there has been a reason for this, we have proclaimed the same thing that we have done for years, representing national interests. The opposition's parties have fought one another, three parties have weakened, two have strengthened, and if we look at why, we can briefly say that DK has conducted a strong campaign and addressed three layers effectively, on the one hand, disillusioned from the MSZP, on the other hand, representatives of the rebel dream of the European United States and, unfortunately, an anti-national and anti-church layer, this is well illustrated by the fact that Mr. President has been rarely hired recently. In the case of Momentum, it was different, since as the successor party of SZDSZ, the parties are no longer led by energy-powered intellectuals, but by young people who managed to get young supporters from other parties. Of course, this is a question of political marketing and mobilization, that is, of course, a question of technology, but let's look at what the parties represent. Unfortunately, sometimes what we saw in one party is that the president stabs his allies in the back with the ease he used to, but it's still a matter of technique. What do these parties want? We can see that there are two worlds facing each other. One of them, which is highly supported in Western Europe, is ideologically different from ours, but we can see that the two are also geographically distinct. Unfortunately, a decadent world has appeared in the West, denying its historical traditions, identity, the requirements of human nature's peculiarities, and its self-defense reflex is also weakening, and foreign culture is only the tip of the iceberg. Unfortunately, the opposition is at home, if not always in person, but in its institutions it considers this world to be close to it. The governing parties continue to represent our national values, Christian culture and normality. We are now preparing for another election, the local government, which is a little closer to people than the European election, because it affects their everyday lives. The promise of the governing parties is very simple: developments continue in cities, villages, even in the capital, where in recent years we have managed to change the chaotic state of the Demszky era and create an organized, livable world. In the opposition, we see a positional struggle, an inadequate candidate's struggle. Some people don't know the professional requirements of the city, and some people have tried it, but they've done it poorly, and they need the campaign speech we just heard from their fellow party. What's left at this hour? The ideological and emotional card, Orbán hatred. I trust that, as the majority voted in favour of the representation of national interests in the EU elections, they will support professional settlements in the municipal elections and will vote for orderly and livable settlements. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-24	Once again, I give the floor to Bence of Retvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-17-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Yesterday was the turn of arguments for the remarrying of Imre Nagy and his martyrs, and we celebrated that we had been free for 30 years, celebrating the 30-year regime change. But let us think for a second, for a thought experiment, that if there had not been a change of regime, what would probably be the name of the Prime Minister of Hungary today. The Prime Minister of Hungary would probably be called Ferenc Gyurcsány if there had not been a change of regime 30 years ago. And if we look at the opposition post-election in the European Parliament, what do we see? The opposition parties say that there is a need for broad cooperation, in as many places as possible, for as many people as possible to participate in the cooperation, and the Gyurcsány couple appreciates that in their own dictionary the interpretation of this cooperation, of the broadest possible cooperation, is that everyone under us, the Gyurcsány couple, should be part of this cooperation in support of their retreat to power. They therefore concluded, after the elections to the European Parliament, that they should be the ones to subdue everyone, and that in the past, they can have some of the results of this with new candidatures, with new chaos and confusion on the opposition side. But their plan is to create a state that would have happened even if there had not been a change of regime in Hungary 30 years ago. We can see that from the outcome of the elections to the European Parliament, and this is what the group leader has come up with: with this 52.5 percent, I think, any European political party would like to be friendly and would like to achieve such support. A very stable support with record participation is a record support, as so many people voted for Fidesz and KDNP, for which there has not been much of an example before, and we can even say that there has not been an example before. The opposition voters also sent a clear message, replaced opposition parties, replaced the list of voters they voted for five years ago. Five years ago and ten-year-olds were replaced, and we do not know who exactly will be replaced and replaced in five years' time, but it is clear that the opposition has repeatedly failed in front of opposition voters, not in front of the ruling parties, not in front of pro-government voters, not in terms of national proportions, but their own voters were so dissatisfied with the set that they formed five years ago that they completely changed the power relations within the opposition. Next to DK's huge half-million-dollar voting base, if we put the MSZP's voting base now shrinking to a few hundred thousand, we can see that the result of the Hungarian left is what it achieved in 30 years, that there was a half-million-dollar voting camp that always supported the Hungarian left almost in the elections to Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[14.10]] Ferenc Gyurcsány managed to take this down to 800,000, and now he has to take it down to half a million. So the number of a stable voting camp on the left has risen to just a little over half a million. After that, we can only see a desire-driven opposition interpretation in which Ferenc Gyurcsány wants to subdue the entire opposition. But there seems to be no stronger player in the opposition than him. The events of the last few weeks, the preparation for the municipal elections, we see that from week to week, the full self-revealing of the press that we have spoken to the oppositions, the left-wing press as independent and objective, as first Róbert Puzsér and then Olga Kálmán, now András Pikó, the emblematic figures of the independent, objective and objective press, join the candidates of the left week after week; one of them even tells us that we have been helped by opposition leaders for a very long time. It's a self-deception. On the one hand, they ran out of politicians, it seems that the opposition parties and, on the other hand, the rapid passage from independent, objective and objective journalism to the list of candidates supported by left-wing party politics show that this independence and objectivity were, of course, only a real indicator in the Soros Media, in fact, we can talk about a dedicated group of journalists who want to support the left, some of whom, as the television programme was stopped or their support was lost in their own channels or previous programmes, are trying to be lucky in politics. It is interesting to watch this movement, how the former socialist lunar station tries to navigate to DK from the former right-wing, news TV atmosphere held by Lajos Simicska. After Schmuck Andor boarded the crash derby, the only thing missing is Ferenc Falus' reappearance, I think. And what we have heard before the agenda today from Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, I think it is a good sign of the opposition's attitude: it was only a kind of acquisition, conquest, robbery, which comes out of his words to kidnap positions, kidnap resources and build on it politically. I hope that the Hungarian voters will be spared by the Good God. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-26	As the last speaker before the agenda, Mr Bánki Erik is next, on behalf of Fidesz, with the title "Active Affairs." Here you go.
u2019-06-17-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Next year's budget will also be a budget for tax cuts, as by 2020 the government plans to cut taxes of more than HUF 500 billion along with the economic protection action plan. Since 2010, the Hungarian government has been committed to the policy of tax reduction, resulting in a decrease in tax burden every year. While the share of tax burdens in Hungary has fallen the most in the European Union in the last year, this does not represent all EU countries. In 2016, from 39.3 per cent per year to 38.4 per cent in 2017 the tax burden on GDP decreased and then decreased year after year, thus further in 2020. In this way, Hungary is able to enter the upper middle layer in the European Union from the point of view of the tax burden. This is still not enough, but the path the Hungarian government is taking in this area is commendable and should be supported. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] Next year's budget and the economic protection action plan will make the Hungarian economy more impact-resistant at macro level, while at the same time strengthening the situation of Hungarian families, protecting the players of the Hungarian economy, and significantly improving the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses through tax cuts and tax and structural measures. Over the next three years, HUF 167.5 billion will be spent on technological development and market access for businesses, of which more than HUF 90 billion will remain as non-refundable support for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. For R &amp; D and innovation, the budget will allocate HUF 32 billion more next year, or HUF 162 billion, instead of HUF 130 billion this year. An important element of the 2020 budget is the strengthening of the protection of the Hungarian economy through the support that the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the SME sector, can receive. The government wants to primarily support promising companies that have been able to increase their turnover by at least 20% in recent years and to increase their export production by 50%. These companies are already called Hungarian multinationals in the common language of the Hungarian economy. As part of the economic protection action plan, we will reduce wage charges by another 2 percent in the framework of an agreement concluded for six years on the basis of the Government's proposal at European Union level, which was concluded by the government, employers and employees' organisations of interest. As a result, the social contribution will decrease from 19.5 per cent in July to 17.5 per cent. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that already this year, HUF 144 billion will remain in Hungarian businesses and HUF 156 billion in the following year. The government is committed to increasing employment and reducing the burden on employment. In recent years, benefits from employers' social contributions tax have also increased steadily and the ceiling for applying the benefits has reached the minimum wage. Thanks to the tax reduction policy, the Hungarian economy has been growing above the EU average since 2013. If we consider the last six years, we can say that the Hungarian economy has been able to grow by twice the average of economic growth in the European Union, which, I think, is an outstanding achievement. These measures, these results, must be protected, and this is what the economic protection action plan serves, as the economic crisis is clearly expected to be halted at European and global level next year. We respond by further strengthening the domestic business layer, further reducing the tax burden, not making the mistake that the Gyurcsány government made at the time of the crisis, not only supported domestic businesses, but also increased the heavy tax burden; rather than supporting Hungarian people, it took money, wages and wages from them; not only did it support Hungarian economic growth, but, in terms of achieving the worst results of all time, it rejected the performance of the Hungarian economy by more than 7 percent. We believe that we must build the Hungarian economy together with Hungarian people, together with businesses, by helping them and supporting them and thus stabilising the Hungarian budget, so that Hungary can expect it from the best position even if there is a crisis, and the Hungarian people will have the least sense of its effects, because we continue to think seriously that Hungary is the first one for us. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-28	Mr. András Tállai has the floor again. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have said, the government has submitted to Parliament a budget that primarily provides assistance and security to families, children and educators. The government's goal must be to create a family-friendly country, a family-friendly country for all Hungarian people. That is why we call the budget for 2020 the budget for supporting families. The other key element, which you have also said, is the economic protection action plan and the provision of its resources. The aim of this is to protect the economy from a possible slowdown and to protect the results that the country has been able to deliver in recent years. It is very important that the budget is able to provide resources for the economy, the players in the economy, for businesses that provide security for Hungarian workers. It is very important that we are able to maintain Hungary's credibility regarding public security, so we must create and create a safe country, and we must protect it, because despite a good economy, even if there is a good public service, if there is no country, there is no safety for people, families, businesses, it is not worth it. We can achieve this by pursuing a rigorous and disciplined budget policy, as we have done and have done since 2010. I, too, would like to mention the sums with which the budget for 2020 gives a great deal more to each area, especially the support of families, as their support increases by HUF 224 billion. [[14.20]] The economic protection action plan, which provides security for businesses, will amount to HUF 500 billion in surplus. We consider it a very great achievement that taxes and public burdens in Hungary will continue to decrease. This will make our economy more competitive, the players in the economy. And it is also an important achievement that we can continue to increase our security expenditures. The big result of the budget is that it contains 1 percent of GDP as a security reserve for expenditure for which it is not possible to prepare. It is also very important that, for the fifth year, we have adopted the country's budget six months earlier, which means credibility either at international level or for the actors and valuers of the Hungarian economy. It is very important that we expect sustained growth and 4 percent economic growth in the 2020 draft budget law, which is outstanding for the European Union. It is important that we can maintain a reduction in the budget deficit. This rate will be 1 percent, which hasn't been this low since the change of system. It is also an important achievement that the reduction in public debt-to-GDP ratio remains guaranteed. It will be below 70 percent as planned at the end of next year: it will fall to 66.7 percent. The rate of inflation is calculated at 2.8 percent. It is a very important and very important achievement that we can redesign a zero budget for the functioning of the state. This means that we can finance public services from revenue and this does not generate additional expenditure and deficits for the country. I would like to emphasise again and at the end of my speech again the increase in the family budget, which is growing by 11 percent. Next year, HUF 2228 billion is available to Hungarian families, and this ensures that [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] all the actions of the family protection action plan. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-17-30	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-06-17-31	Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, LMP; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP. Speaking before the agenda on Tuesday, MEPs Lajos Oláh, DK; Péter Ungár, LMP; László Varga, MSZP; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; András Aradszki, KDNP; Attila Tilki, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Brenner Koloman, Jobbik, and Erik Fülöp, independent applied for a speech after the agenda. No one came forward after the agenda on Wednesday. On Thursday, Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda. On Friday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2019-06-17-32	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we decide on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee, in derogation from the house rules, initiates the National Assembly to act as T/6322 on Hungary's central budget for 2020. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, the Committee on Budgets shall depart from the rules of the House so that the summary report and the summary amendment are amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure. Without prejudice to the time limit laid down in paragraph 1 of Section 1, you may submit it on Friday 5 July 2019 at 9 a.m. The leader of any political group is up to ten, the house rule is 48. You may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. T/6322/10 proposed a derogation from the house rules. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House has adopted a proposal for a derogation from the house rules by 141 votes to eight, with no abstentions. We are now deciding on a time-frame for the submission of proposals. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the fact that T/6322 on Hungary's central budget for 2020 The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to inform you that the resolution house rule is 37. In accordance with paragraphs 3 to 4 of the Act on the Central Budget, it is not possible to double the timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2019-06-17-33	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe is as follows: 617 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 283 minutes for the KDNP Group, 242 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 194 minutes for the MSZP Group, 145 minutes for the DK Group, 132 minutes for the LMP Group, 125 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 62 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. Opportunity of the representatives of the European Parliament in Hungary to speak in the general debate in the House Rule 37. § 2 (2) (h) if you have applied for a speech by the Head of the Group, to the time frame of the group; if you have applied directly, in addition to the 30-hour time frame, an independent representative shall be entitled to a seven-minute period each. The representative of the ethnic minority invited by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, who spoke in the House Rules 37th floor. Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 60 minutes, which is not included in the time frame.
u2019-06-17-34	Dear Parliament, I'm asking you, do you agree that T/6322? We will discuss this in a 30-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the proposal for a time frame by 119 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. The motion put forward by the President initiates the T/6361 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2020. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a five-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2019-06-17-35	Dear Parliament, The proposed five-hour timeframe is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 40 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 32 minutes for the MSZP Group, 24 minutes for the DK Group, 22 minutes for the LMP Group, 21 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 11 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers. To address the representative, advocate, or national representative or speaker invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the House Rule 37 shall be replaced by the following: Article 2 (2) (g) allows a total of 20 minutes, which does not include the time frame.
u2019-06-17-36	Dear Parliament, Now it's time to make a decision again. So I ask this House, and you agree that T/6361. The submission will be discussed within a five-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the proposal for a time frame was adopted by 118 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. [[14.30]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that the 2013 CCXXXII on the amendment of certain public education laws and the provision of national public education textbooks. T/6457. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 shall take place on Friday 21 June 2019 as the last item on the agenda until its closure. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. I would like to inform this House that a decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Now, at 2:31 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. László György Lukács, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why can more and more people die from the West Nile fever caused by mosquito bites? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2019-06-17-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, after many rains, all of a sudden, in good weather, everyone could see that there was a mosquito invasion in our country. Mosquitoes not only cause problems with unpleasant bites, but also spread serious diseases. Such a disease is West Nile fever, which has increased rapidly in recent years. The problem should not be underestimated and deal with with with a swing because West Nile fever is a serious threat. The disease is transmitted by Egyptian hip mosquitoes, in people with weakened immune systems, its symptoms are primarily similar to that of influenza, and a large number of infections end with fatal results due to meningitis. Based on the data of the National Centre for Public Health, the number of infections and fatalities increased in 2018. While a total of 10 cases of West Nile fever were reported in 2014, 23 deaths were reported in 2017, unfortunately four deaths this year, and 225 of our countrymen were sick of the disease by 2018, and 15 have unfortunately died from the dangerous mosquito bite. Seeing that the mosquito invasion in our country has been barely contained or even reduced in the last two weeks, it may be likely that even worse numbers will appear this year, and even more deaths will result in an innocent - looking mosquito bite. The number of growing cases could be relatively easily prevented, since the cause of reproduction is the late mosquito slaughter and mild weather. According to experts, it is very difficult to defend against this dangerous pathogen and against mosquitoes in the traditional way. What we really need is to kill larvae in good time with a special protein. That way, the gap, the period in which the number of diseases can still be reduced, may not continue to grow. In view of all of this, it is important to clarify that the government has some responsibility for the fact that a fatal illness that was barely known in 2014 will cause 225 diseases and 15 deaths by 2018. So I ask, Mr Secretary of State, and I look forward to your reply as to why the government is not carrying out a mosquito or preventive slaughter that would prevent the spread of mosquitoes that carry the pathogen of West Nile fever. How many people do we have to wait until they die for proper mosquito control and prevention? The government felt responsible for making 2004 Has the number of people sick with West Nile fever multiplied by 20 since then? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-38	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2019-06-17-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The West Nile virus has been present in Hungary since 1969, since then such diseases have been known in Hungary. As you said, it's primarily dangerous for people whose body is already weakened. In 80 percent of cases, infection occurs without any symptoms, but there is indeed one percent when someone has a very weak immune system, and in that case it can be more likely to have more serious consequences. Indeed, as you have pointed out, there is a very large rise in cases in Europe. Fortunately, Hungary is not involved in the greatest number of cases. The three highest increases were measured by 15 times in Bulgaria between 2017 and 2018, 13.5 times in France and nearly 11 times in Italy. So it is clear at first sight that, fortunately, in Hungary, defence has succeeded better, since we are not one of the most infected countries. WHO, the World Health Organization, has also issued an international position, precisely because in many European countries and elsewhere, this disease has appeared in several places. I would just like to quote briefly from this, when talking about the transmission of the disease, that pre-transfer efforts should focus primarily on personal and community protection against mosquito bites: mosquito nets, using personal insect alarms, wearing bright colored clothes, long shirts and trousers, and community programmes should encourage communities to destroy these larval areas in mosquito breeding areas, which you referred to. So the WHO has also proposed a similar defence as Hungary has been doing in recent years. In order to tell you about last year's results, allow me to give you some information, although all of these can be found on the disaster management website, as disaster control also carries out mosquito control on the basis of a predefined schedule, based on expert recommendations. Nearly one and a half billion forints are spent each year. In the previous year, this took place for 19 weeks, and 728 749 hectares were affected by these treatments. The program started on 29 April this year. We are currently in the process of implementing the seventh week's programme. In the first three weeks, this is what you have proposed, Congressman, so this has been achieved in the first three weeks, which you consider to be the most effective, and then, in the fourth week, chemical illusions began. But as I said, you can find out about this on the website of the National Directorate for Disaster Protection. In many cases, there are river basins in private areas where these larvae breed, and therefore the National Centre for Public Health has also prepared posters and provided information material. Not only are they available on its website to the Centre for Public Health, the former officer, but they have also tried to forward these information to the property owners through the involvement of district and capital government offices. It is important that mosquito control is carried out by air, on the one hand with mosquitoicides, on the other hand with mosquito larvae, and on the other hand there are exterminations from ground vehicles, as well as injuries, which are carried out by coordinating government offices, on the other hand by means of warm nebula training, on the other hand by means of cold nebula formation, or by means of a ULV procedure. Although you didn't mention it, it is also an important part of the protection of the seasonal screening of blood products. We have also provided sufficient resources for this additional funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-40	I will give the floor to the Member once again for a return answer. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-41	Thank you very much. I cannot accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. One Commissioner you've been talking about can't see at all the results, and Mr Secretary, it's not enough to defend that you struck ten mosquitoes on your arms this afternoon, say, Saturday or Sunday. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not what we're talking about!]] There's more to the story than that. It is safe to say that if the mosquito invasion continues like this, people will be as anemic as the KDNP's election results, where they will measure themselves independently. [[Defiance on the opposition side. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you joking about people dying?]] But it's safe to say that we don't care what the WHO suggests, what we're interested in is what you're doing to prevent such a mosquito invasion, especially if it's spreading a deadly disease. So, Secretary of State, the question remains: what are you doing and when have you been killed in order to prevent this mosquito spreading this extremely dangerous disease? When will the mosquito invasion finally be taken seriously, and not only do they think that it is a temporary problem, and when will Hungary be freed from these mosquitoes that spread the deadly pathogen? I would have waited for your answer, I didn't get it, so I accepted the answer, I can repeat myself, I don't know. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-42	I ask the House, and it accepts Mr. Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you making jokes about the deaths of 15 people?]] The House adopted the answer by 116 votes to 31, with one abstention. [[14.40]] Lajos Korózs and Sándor Szabó, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: ? Or why do people in need stop their social leave? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister Csaba Dömötör will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-43	Thank you. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In the last week, conflicting news has come to light about a segment of social recreation, and for quite some time now, it has been possible to turn back a significant part of the profit from the distribution of various vouchers in recent years, which has been practically limited to the Erzsébet vouchers, into social recreation. In this category, pensioners received a quota each year, which could be used for social holidays, but for years there were social groups, primarily disadvantaged social groups, which received special support. This was the case in the past for apprentices or large family members, and now for the last time for disabled children. The statistics show that quite a lot of people have been affected by this measure, since about 43-44 thousand people have been given social leave for pensioners and, as far as I know, about 9,000 children with disabilities have been involved in such recreation. However, the salad law that has just been submitted removes the term "socially in need" from the text and leaves only the children's recreation and catering. As I mentioned in my introduction, controversial information has also come to me, because the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation has spoken on this issue, but the government has not spoken in recent weeks or days. On the basis of this proposal, the social recreation of the needy pensioners, people with disabilities and large families will be abolished here. All of this, as I mentioned, comes from the salad law establishing next year's budget. It is well known that Mihály Varga has submitted this law to Parliament. I would also like to stress that vouchers marketed by the National Holiday Foundation have made quite a profit for the voucher issuer than it could be used for social holidays. I myself applied to the National Holiday Foundation for data in the public interest, which refused to provide the data, and I had to go to court on this issue to make it clear that Erzsébet Voucher Distributor Zrt. how much money has been transferred to social leave, how much profit has been made after the issuance of vouchers, and how much is in proportion to the amounts spent on it. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what is the truth about this issue, leaving social leave for pensioners and disabled children in the next budget year. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-17-44	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2019-06-17-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to advise you not to sit down with false news in the public domain. Despite all the contrary rumors, the programme for large families, pensioners and people with disabilities will not cease. [[István Szilárd Németh: He knows that!]] It is well known that we had debates with Brussels, which led to several changes to the Erzsébet voucher system, but the social holiday continues without delay. Moreover, the reason for the conversion is that due to compliance with EU legislation, it became necessary to abolish the issue and marketing of Erzsébet vouchers with effect from 31 December 2018, and the removal of vouchers has removed the source of social relief aid as laid down in the current legislation, and the financing should therefore be amended. So there will be camps, but funding will have to be done differently. The Erzsébet programme has, by the way, provided for one and a half million people in the last eight years, including a quarter of a million pensioners, 60,000 disabled and about half a million large families. I would also like to inform you, Mr President, that this year there will be nearly 60,000 people on vacation, and that from 15 September 2019 you will be able to apply for next year's editions. That's completely against what you're saying. I find it a bit hypocritical that you speak of antisocial politics. We didn't take a month's pension from the elderly. You, by the way, affected 2.4 million older people. We did not raise energy prices, but you, we did not double unemployment, but you, and if I approach this issue from the point of view of families, you are not enough to stop a well-functioning home creation program, but you have even driven Hungarian families into foreign currency loans. Family tax relief for one and two children has been abolished, and the three children have been radically reduced. Honourable Congressman, I understand, or rather I say that I acknowledge that, after the EP election, you are in a very tight position, and you need to bring snakes and frogs from the government to lure your voters back from Ferenc Gyurcsány, but I ask you not to sit up for unfounded rumours and, if possible, to use Parliament meetings to spread untruths. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-46	I'll ask Congressman, he'll take the answer.
u2019-06-17-47	Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer, Mr. Secretary. Now he's talking about everything but how he's gonna make money for social leave. [[Csaba Dömötör: The budget!]] All he's said to me is that they're changing the way the funding is financed. So far, it had to be reinvested from the benefit of the voucher company, but it can be seen that the voucher issuing company has already made losses last year, so the loss cannot be used to allocate profits from which it could be financed. But he didn't give me an answer on how to make money for social leave, so I don't accept the answer. Thank you.
u2019-06-17-48	I ask the House, and it accepts Mr. Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 29, with one abstention. Imre László and László Hajdu, representatives of DK, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Minister of State responsible for innovation and technology will respond. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! It is often said on the part of the opposition that the situation of basic care is seriously threatened by medical and professional shortages. Based on the data of June 1, 2019, 372, among them 19 general medical practices in Budapest are permanently uncharged. This number, because the government is unable to solve the basic problems, is constantly rising. This means that the burden on primary care workers is increasing. As we all know, it is sometimes essential for home-grown pediatricians, adult doctors, as well as general medical assistants, nurses, physiotherapists and nurses to visit those in need of this condition in their homes. However, in the metropolitan environment, parking is often very difficult. Every day, valuable hours of work go to city transport and find the right parking space. However, if they were to use public transport, they would normally be able to provide fewer patients. The Hungarian health care system has a number of difficult-to-treat problems. In order to solve the parking difficulties of public service providers, only a legislative intention, a simple amendment of the law is required. That is why my colleague László Hajdu and I have proposed the introduction of a so-called health parking card, which would allow us to facilitate certain rules on parking. With this tiny step that is almost inconsequential, considerable time and energy could be saved for the performance of meaningful health tasks. In February this year, the Parliament's Economic Committee refused to even consider our bill on this matter and to include it in a series of subjects. [[14.50]] Apparently, this problem did not even reach the threshold of the pro-government majority of the committee. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he agrees with the aim of helping patients to park health care workers in their homes. It supports the adoption of a small legislative step to facilitate the task in everyday life, i.e. Act I of 1988 on Road Transport 28/D. Add a sub-heading to Section 5 of the Health Parking Card Rules? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-17-50	Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés has the floor.
u2019-06-17-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is a well-known opposition custom that when you are looking for something spectacular, a well-sounding demand and demand a solution, while ignoring the fact that the existing regulatory framework, such as the laws in force, has long been providing answers and solutions. What you have described here, together with your fellow Member in the interpellation, is one of the practices of creative interpretation of reality, since it can be done according to the laws currently in force and with the help of it. Honourable Congressman, As you are certainly aware, in Hungary many of the issues relating to parking have the right to decide and to move, as this is an area of rule making where local conditions require different approaches. In contrast to what you are suggesting, this local government space also includes the possibility of providing, among other things, reduced parking conditions for health care workers, the possibility of doing so in a number of cities, to my knowledge, mainly in rural cities. I would like to point out, for example, that in my residence, Nagykanizsa, the city regulation regulates that doctors are given parking facilities both during and outside their work. It can be solved by a simple municipal decree. Honourable Congressman, You may be dealing with this issue and you are dealing with it because in Zuglo, in the district led by Mayor Gergely Christmas there, the regulation of parking has proved to be a complete failure. One of the problems is parking. Zugló may be the only district in Budapest where the amount paid for parking will not be improved, but every forint will flow into operation, and even the Zuglós will pay to pay for parking. The absurd situation has been that the assumptions and the ideas that have been formulated are backed by shocking numbers. In one district of the capital city in Buda, for example, the amount paid for the specific maintenance of a parking lot is HUF 500, while in Zugló the maintenance fee for the same type of parking watch is approximately 130 times higher. Honourable Congressman, It is understandable that if someone sees the performance of Gergely Christmas as a frightening prospect that the municipalities are regulating these areas, but I believe and believe that, as I have said, just because there are different needs and opportunities in districts and cities, this would be the task of some municipalities. I ask that, where you see such a problem in the capital city or in many districts of the capital city, you call the local government leaders to the attention of the local authorities to resolve this. Don't just start from Zugló, where the financing of parking is a problem, but also look at the local authorities in their respective jurisdictions. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-52	Before I give the floor to Congressman for a rejoinder, I declare, according to the rules of chivalry, the state of play of municipal campaign speeches: one for each. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That wasn't campaign talk. By the way, I'm sorry if the Secretary of State remembers everything. I am well aware that the municipalities have the right to issue the card that allows the persons concerned to park free of charge. That's not what I'm talking about. I am truly sorry if it has somehow not reached the level to understand what this is all about. Lighten up. For example, ambulances, on-call vehicles, are exempted from certain rules. If I don't know where to park, because they're all the time, and I'm standing double somewhere, I'll be fined. However, this is regulated by the bearded 1988 Decree on who can have this license. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm sorry the Secretary of State didn't understand that. Of course, I cannot accept your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-06-17-54	I ask this House to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 113 votes to 28, with 1 abstention. Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: When and how does the government assess and finally respond to the needs of the elderly society in Hungary? It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2019-06-17-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The ageing of Hungarian society is an increasing problem, not only for the elderly, but also for the active generation and the state. However, it seems that the state cannot and does not want to deal with the assessment and satisfaction of the real needs of the elderly. Today, however, 1.8 million people over 65 live in Hungary, and more and more people are over 80 with an increase in life expectancy. 1.3 million people over the age of 65 are suffering from musculoskeletal, sensory or chronic diseases, so more and more elderly people would need care, but the Hungarian state does not provide enough help and does not take into account the real needs of older people. A good example of this is that municipalities have to provide day care and care services depending on the population, while the population has nothing to do with where and how many people in need should actually be cared for. In some areas of elderly care, the state took over the tasks, where subsidies are linked to indicators such as seats, which again have little to do with real needs. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Perhaps one of the saddest features of the current situation is that people in need of care have to wait on average two years to get into the nursing home, and half of them die before they have access to care. In April this year, 27,000 people were on the waiting lists of nursing homes. This is no wonder, of course, because the Hungarian state spends less than the EU average not only on pensions but also on elderly care. Over the last eight years, no new public seats have been created, and the funding of different forms of supply has not increased at all. Therefore, in February 2019 679 people were waiting for home assistance, 790 people in May, so their number is increasing considerably. The burden of caring for elderly relatives is thus on families, which means that caregivers, especially women, are forced to give up their jobs. I ask you, is the government aware that 27,000 people are waiting to enter the nursing home? What of these elderly people is over 80 years old and what is the number of people aged between 60 and 70? What does the government do to ensure that the waiting time for these 27,000 people is not two years, but, say, six months at most? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-06-17-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On the part of the government, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I believe that, even in the previous speeches, it is not possible to go without saying that our fellow Member, László György Lukács, was joking about a virus that killed 15 people, and then his whole group laughed aloud. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Not on this.]] This shows how much empathy is in the Jobbik fraction. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Read the minutes back.]] And not only for the elderly, who are sometimes called the rear-back commandos, but also for the sick, honourable Member. [[Dr. László György Lukács: We know that KDNP can do nothing on its own!]] The honourable Member is declaring himself. With regard to the LMP, it seems that three weeks after their election to the European Parliament, they realized that old people also live in Hungary and that it would be worthwhile to deal with their affairs. They didn't do that when, say, by voting in 40, women could have helped older people, it was somehow not important to you. [[15.00]] It is not important when allies are elected, because they are preparing to join together proudly with the intellectual fathers of a visitation fee and hospital daily allowance that is particularly affecting the elderly in Budapest and in more and more rural cities. We can remember when you, in fact you personally, honourable Member, attacked the reduction of the rent here in Parliament. You know, it is very helpful for many elderly people and old married couples not to have what happened in Hungary before 2010 when the cost of the rent increased fifteen times. We managed to break down the overhead and reduce the distribution of families by 20-25 percent. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] And you personally said that this is actually very disadvantaged from environmental aspects, and expensive energy, expensive gas, expensive electricity, expensive water is good, because then people don't have the money, and then they have lower bills, not because gas, electricity and electricity are cheaper, but because people won't have enough money to pay. At that time, you did not approach this issue with the thinking of the elderly, but you attacked the reduction of the rent on green funds with some mentality that was far from the ordinary thinking of the people. You know, it was good for a lot of old people. As with medicinal products, the introduction of a vaccine has been noticeably reduced by the prices of medicines used most often by the elderly. It was very important for the elderly to have the Erzsébet programme, which was covered precisely by the international procedures of those on a platform with you, who tried to attack the Erzsébet program everywhere as large foreign companies. Unfortunately, the results have also been achieved in this way, creating the situation that this kind of financing of the Erzsébet programme has been launched in Hungary, and the government will have the task of creating new resources next year, which it will of course create in the autumn. However, we also needed an economic increase in order to be able to raise pensions to a noticeable extent, 33 percent in recent years, if I added up the annual increases, but even in the family protection action plan, we provided the opportunity to introduce the grandparents' children. This was the series of decisions that we also discussed in the Elderly Council, of which Prime Minister is the President. Legal compensation, Erzsébet's voucher, all the issues have been addressed in the Council of Elders, precisely so that we can make decisions that will help the elderly the most. In recent years, we have managed to increase the number of accommodations from 54 500 to 58 300 for residential institutions providing care for the elderly so that we can provide accommodation for more elderly people. We were able to increase the number of beneficiaries from 75,000 to 85 598 in the case of house support, so we can provide a lot more people and a lot more care, because while 5764 people were working on home assistance in 2010, now 12 thousand people, and while the per capita support rate in 2010 was 145 thousand forints, this is now 210 thousand forints. That is why we tried to help the elderly in their homes, in their normal surroundings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now I'm going to ask Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck to accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-59	I do not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Secretary of State, you're always wrong. You don't even understand the question, let alone answer it. [[Sic! Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] I didn't ask you how much retirement is now, and I asked you that last week when you couldn't answer it. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: How do you respond to the reduction of the rent?]] Now I'm asking you, I'm talking about 27,000 elderly people waiting to get into the nursing home and what you're doing to radically reduce this number. I dare say you've never been to a nursing home. Because if you'd been to the nursing home, you'd be ashamed of what kind of nursing homes there are in Hungary today, the conditions under which people get in, that there are places where tens of them live in one room. Unacceptable! You don't even know how many caregivers there are in the nursing home. Today in Hungary [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] 0.4 per cent of GDP is spent on this, while the EU average is 0.5 per cent. That should change.
u2019-06-17-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, Should the rich pay to reduce the housing crisis? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, housing prices in Budapest have gone up brutally, and not only housing prices, but also rent amounts in the capital have also gone up brutally. As a result, a lot of housing in Budapest or moving to Budapest has been in jeopardy in recent years. While neither the capital nor the state is seriously willing to build rentals, more and more people are being evicted, more and more students have to commute, and it is becoming more and more difficult for families to manage loans or housing costs. If you look at a family of two earners with a national average income, you can see that they have to farm from around HUF 300 thousand net, and from this you would have to manage the HUF 120-130 thousand that you can either use to pay off a flat purchase or to pay rent. In both cases, it can be seen that for a family with an average income, these costs are extremely brutal. The situation is particularly harsh in the inner districts of Budapest, sometimes the rent is doubled and the prices are partly driven by the popular Airbnb. But this is not the only form of short-term housing in the capital, for many have benefited quite well by buying a flat in the years before the upswing, which they have been making very big money on for some time now and probably for a long time. The government has ignored the problem in recent years, the CSOK and other family subsidies, from which housing could be rented or bought, do not address the housing crisis globally, undoubtedly provide support to a narrow circle. The government hasn't spent years building social housing, the same is true of the capital, while more apartments are amortised than is built in the capital. Although the government is trying to spin the construction of new apartments, the sad fact is that their number, the number of constructions is significantly below the level before 2006, when between 50 and 60 thousand apartments were built each year. [[In an interrogation:]] We'll help you. If the government doesn't find enough resources to build the apartments, I ask you to consider the proposal of Gergely Christmas. The point of this proposal is that in the case of a value above HUF 500 million, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a tax is levied on luxury estates, the incomes of which could be used to build social housing, and municipal rentals could be renovated by the government or the municipality. So I ask the Secretary of State that he is finally willing to spend on social housing to reduce rent and housing prices. [[Intercoms from both sides: Time!]] And are you prepared to consider the imposition of a luxury tax on the luxury estates over 500 million? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-06-17-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, I'll draw your attention to the time frame at another time. The answer to your interpellation question will be given by Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2019-06-17-63	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You're talking about a housing crisis, but if you don't mind, there's a problem. The housing crisis means when a large crowd of people are in crisis by losing their house. [[15.10]] At present, this situation is not the case in Hungary, but the housing crisis is at the time of your government membership, when hundreds of thousands or more of people are allowed to be in a very difficult situation through foreign exchange lending. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Always the same... Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced it!]] Actually, it's a housing crisis. During your governance, the housing crisis has developed in Hungary. You are now standing up and accusing this government of this situation. You did nothing to prevent foreign exchange lending, we had to wait for the Hungarian people until 2010, while the current government saved hundreds of thousands of people from the real housing crisis. The current government also has clear ideas in the area of home creation: every Hungarian person, every Hungarian family, should have access to home as far as possible. Tradition, practice, and thinking, developed centuries ago, so that I can have my own apartment, the government supports and adapts the government's policy to this. That is why it is important to create a work- and value-based society, where livelihoods can be guaranteed from honest work, and everyone should have the opportunity to do so. Of course, a person who works, raises and takes on a child gets more help in creating a home. On the other hand, at the time of your administration, all such subsidies were gradually phased out, and in 2009 there was no Socpol and no interest subsidies. That's the real deal. However, the current government has already developed a system called the CSOK system in which 104,000 families have applied, and HUF 304 billion is the government's commitment in this respect. Of course, you're disparaging it, as we're used to. As for Gergely Christmas's proposal, which you are promoting here, it is simply shocking: the socialists cannot think of anything else when they get close to power, only taxation, property taxes, and property taxes. True, it is not that they could introduce this throughout the country, but only that I would like to strike the Budapest people with it by Gergely Christmas. Mr President, this is not the solution. Watch the solutions of the Fidesz-KDNP government. There is no need to increase taxes, and there is also tax reduction to achieve government goals, for example, in the area of home-building. And if you allow me to make a final comment: you can see from your opinion that you think completely differently when you are on the government, then no matter what the people, no matter what the families, no matter what the children, no matter what the home creation, but when you sit in opposition benches, you usually attack the system supported by the population, the voters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Sándor Burány to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-65	Thank you, Mr. President. That answer cannot be accepted. Mr. Secretary. Speaking of families, I don't know, you noticed as Secretary of State that the family allowance was last raised during socialist governments. By the way, at the beginning of our government, we doubled the family allowance, we last raised it, in the last nine years they were unable to raise the family allowance with a single penny. Mr. Secretary, that's just one fact. Second, he was talking about tax cuts. One of the reasons for the housing crisis is precisely that low incomes Unlike the socialist governments, you have taxed it. The minimum wage in Europe has never had to bear such a tax as in Hungary during your governance. These are the sad facts. By the way, you are not familiar with sociological studies, and you have no idea of the housing crisis, which includes, for example, that in Hungary today, hundreds of thousands of families do not have a normal home, saltpeter, poorly insulated [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] They're forced to live in houses with low levels of comfort. I don't accept your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-06-17-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs: å Is Romania returning to the path of dialogue? It's an address. Congressman Attila Tilki has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the elections to the European Parliament, the Romanian government lost many votes; it is in crisis: the party's president was sentenced by the Supreme Court to a final sentence immediately after the EP election; three ministers were replaced in the Romanian Government after the election; the smaller parties began fishing in confusion and began to play the usual Hungarian card. We know that Romanian politics has often been characterized in the past by migration and backstabbing, but it is very difficult to expect reconciliation from us, Hungarians, when we are faced with an obvious fact-false in connection with the heroic cemetery in Uzvölgy. We were shocked and shocked by the Russian action against the resting place of the Hungarian heroes. 600 heroic dead rest in the Uzvölgy military cemetery, the youngest is only 17 years old, the oldest is 54 years old, of which 500 are Hungarian, 61 are Austrian, 22 are German, 15 are Russian nationalities. There is no Romanian soldier in the cemetery, and there is no place for Romanian military crosses. The Uzvölgye is a symbol of Hungarian military resistance. On October 24, 1916, the chief lieutenant of the 10th Infantry Regiment of Miskolc, Lieutenant of Wednesday, wrote in his diary: "My losses were very great, and on the battlefield he was dead. All men fought with admirable heroism. They hadn't eaten for days and then froze in the cold, had little ammo, and were able to stand their ground. The glorious Hungarian past cannot be rewritten or cemented, even with the Romanian minority policy, which has unfortunately entered a new dimension. After the barbaric destruction, the 95-year-old Veteran of Uzvölgy, brave Mihály Bartha's words were almost incinerated by us. However, we created this cemetery, we fixed it, we fixed it. It is a shame that they do such a thing to us, to the Hungarians. I've summoned my brave Uncle Michael Bartha. The Hungarian diplomacy and the government responded in several steps, reached for stronger diplomatic tools and passed on a list of protests. Unfortunately, the requested ambassador in Budapest did not appear at central order, he refused to appear, obviously this also indicates that it is not just a matter of loose local emotions. Romania is needed, we need an economically strong Romania [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And it is very important for stable Romania to be a member of a stable Central European league, where it can be played according to Central European rules. Dear Minister, Is there any hope that Romania will return to dialogue? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Menczer, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation question raised by Mr Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-17-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to stress the Hungarian foreign policy stance that we are doing what Hungarians from abroad are asking us to do. We do not try to be smarter than those who live there, we ask them what they see fit, what they see right, what they think is in their best interest, and we do this, and we decide accordingly. We're still in constant contact with the DAHR. Unfortunately, we have seen unacceptable events in recent years: the Romanian authorities have punished the Vice-President of the Kovasna County Municipality and the President of the Harghita County Municipality. So right now, the Romanian authorities are punishing people who were peacefully, praying, forming a living chain at the Uzhvölgy military cemetery, not those who were obviously aggressive and who were indeed guilty of this incident. [[15.20]] It cannot be emphasized enough, Mr House, honourable Member, that Hungarian people have been attacked, tombs have been violated, the stools have been broken, you can see exactly what has happened on the Internet, in television coverage. For this reason, I would like to re-record that those allegations are not true, whoever says they are, and every time they say that there has been no physical atrocity, that there has been no personal injury, and that there has been no mourning, because all of this has happened. That is precisely why we ask and expect, most specifically, those responsible to be sought and punished. Dear House, I would also like to remind you that post-case Romanian communication is unacceptable. I would like to remind the honourable Members that the Romanian ambassador did not comply with the order, to be more precise, of the fact that, after the atrocities in Uzvölgy, there was a demonstration before the Romanian embassy here in Hungary, and someone glued a sticker to the wall of the Romanian embassy here. I would like to stress that this kind of communication and behaviour is unfair and unacceptable to me. There's no equality between attacking people, desecrating graves and sticking out a sticker. Dear House, What we might be happy about is that according to our current knowledge, at least at the end of this month, at the end of June in Bucharest, there will be a meeting of the war grave care committees, military grave care professionals, Hungarian and Romanian experts. We have been initiating this for a very long time, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, has repeatedly asked the Romanian party to do so, but until now it has been unanswered. Now there is openness on the Romanian side. However, we can only hope that this will not be a time-consuming trial, not an alibi discussion, but a real, meaningful, professional discussion. Dear House, I would also like to underline that, as the Member may have pointed out, we are interested in a balanced and good relationship with Romania. We are interested in enabling the Hungarians and Romanians to live together peacefully, and that cooperation between Hungary and Romania should take place and work in Central Europe. I know exactly and I see that after what happened, it's hard to hear, acknowledge, see and read the reactions, my own outrage is exactly the same as that of the commentators or writers. At the same time, this must be recorded, as well as the fact that people are obviously interested in it, and they have done a lot to make a circus at the military cemetery in Uzvölgy, there must be a conflict between Hungarians and Romanians, between Hungary and Romania. However, we would like to settle this with Hungarian interests, of course, to stand up for Hungarian interests, but if there is one way to settle this. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And if the Romanians want their own soldiers, wherever they are buried, remember, do so, but not like this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-17-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Attila Tilki to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-06-17-71	Thank you very much for the reassuring answer, Mr. Secretary of State. The hero cult is a very important thing in every nation's life, and the reason why we see it so sadly is because we have seen TV footage sadly, as if you go to the Don turn, in the Rudkino and in the Boldirevka cemetery, you can see that the Russian state is paying attention to the state of the cemeteries of foreign countries. This is what we see in the surrounding countries. If I have any time, I like to cultivate the hero cult along with the mayors in my area. The proposal from the mayors, after seeing pictures of Romanian military cemeteries in a very neglected state, is that we would be very happy to offer the possibility that we might even clean Romanian military cemetery. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Jobbik has already done it!]] and make it worthy of celebration [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Jobbik has already done it! Intruders from Fidesz: Stop yelling at me! Noise.- The president's ringing.]] If their problem is that they have no place to celebrate, then perhaps that cemetery, a cleansed cemetery, may be suitable, but the Hungarian cemeteries will not be taken from us. Thank you. I accept the answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-17-72	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear House, Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Why are the Hungarian vineyards being blackmailed? It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. We've talked about the destruction of the countryside called green harvesting in the last few weeks. If you weren't listening at the time, I'd put it very briefly. We call it green harvesting when, in a humiliating way, inexplicably, domestic berry growers are forced to cut the bunches under the capital even immaturely, so of course they will be paid some grief money, which would be practically around the cost price, of course, if the costs were to be eliminated, but obviously the grapes still need to be treated after green harvesting. But it's not without precedent that you leave the vineyard alone. Think of the time when, say, in a given year, the purchase price would have approached the cost of the purchase price, or not give it to God, even had some profit on it, then you were able to unleash on the domestic market the troubled wholesalers who brought Italian or unknown quality must and wine to the domestic market. But we can also talk about why the National Council of Mountains, the Chamber of Agriculture or the Agricultural Ministry does not adequately represent the vineyards who could really, really use this help. You only feed a few dozen Fidesz favorite winemakers with billions of dollars, and you make these laws. Nor does it take much imagination to link the tourism and wine sector of Lőrinc Mészáros to the fact that the state-owned Grand Tokaj Zrt. he's already announced that he's not going to buy the berries from the vine growers. The interesting thing about the story is that landlords with large vineyards, let's say, did not receive this letter, try to deter only small and medium-sized farmers from producing. I think, on the basis of all this, I am right to ask the following questions. Why doesn't Minister, Secretary of State, the agricultural purse, and why don't they represent the interests of the Hungarian vineyards when it comes to, say, overproduction or green harvesting? What makes you think that this senseless destruction would be the best way to solve the surplus of 200 thousand grams currently present in the Tokaj Mountain alone? In the last two years alone, pro-government landlords have been able to build processing plants worth HUF 40 billion. When it comes to holding hands, they are happy to be served, but when it should be done for the community, when it should be done for domestic fruit, they do not do so when they are out of responsibility, when they have submitted applications, they have even undertaken to process the surplus in such a case. Is it a coincidence they're only messing with the little ones and the mediums? Is this not related to the need for you, your friends, even these remaining small estates in order to expand further in the Hungarian countryside? Secretary of State, this has been carried out with this kind of rural development money. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] rural redevelopment is unacceptable. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation question raised by the Member. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Of course, I will respond to the interpellation, although it only partially covered what was written. I must make it clear to you in advance that, contrary to your statement, the agricultural government has always been on the side of vineyards and winemakers in recent years. We're partners with the industry. The green harvesting measure is a crisis management measure that can be fully financed from EU funds, which is compatible with today's legislative environment and in which producers can participate voluntarily with fair compensation. I would also like to draw Mr President's attention to the fact that the introduction of the measure was introduced by the Agricultural Ministry, after consulting professional organisations, with their agreement and support. I note that in the national organisation of the interbranch organisation of the sector, the National Council of the Mountain Communities, the wine-growing and wine-growing delegates are delegated by the wine-growing councils. The members of the wine and wine sections shall have the same voting rights and shall be equally represented by both parties. Dear House, The oversupply of wine is not only affecting Hungary. In the European Union, the highest production volume of the last ten years was harvested in 2018, the cellars had about 190 million hectolitres of must and wine, resulting in an increase in stocks and the prices of wines have started to drop across Europe. Without the current rapid intervention, Hungarian wine producers would find it more difficult than ever during this year's harvest. [[15.30]] We find it a serious result that the 790 thousand hectolitres of wine imports in 2011 have been reduced to 72 thousand hectolitres in 2018. It is also an important achievement that 25 000 hectares of plantations have been renewed thanks to the subsidies, and we have decided to grant HUF 35 billion of investment aid to 500 winemakers for quality Hungarian grape and wine production. As far as his other comment is concerned, Grand Tokaj Zrt. As a public company, it is not under the control of the Agricultural Ministry, but it is not true that you made the claim that Grand Tokaj Zrt. does not buy wine grapes for small producers this year. The record production in 2018 and the related market mechanisms that I have just detailed have an impact on Grand Tokaj Zrt., which is why, according to their information, they are unable to sign a contract in advance to receive about 20 percent less grapes than the average vintage quantities this year. With this volume, the company is by far the largest, with nearly 900 producers contracted, with a stable background in Tokaj-Hegyalány. Honourable Congressman, The current preliminary data show that the conditions for the green harvesting measure have been well developed, as a very large number of vine farmers choose the possibility of escape in green harvesting. On the basis of the above, contrary to what the Member has said, the green harvesting measure is now the real help for the vine-producing family farms. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask you, Mr President, to accept my reply, since you have received answers to your questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-77	Well, it remains between us, Mr. Secretary, the difference in opinion. I don't think it's the solution to this situation that we use public money to destroy our crops for nothing. Especially if we have already spent on this, since this is all our tax forints, then let's say that this grape could have been included in a public catering, in any processed form, be it grape juice or any other solution. But if, I do, these state processors buy it up and, say, vaporize it, then it could appear in Eastern markets as brandy, and there are countless other solutions that are far more meaningful than destroying the entire year's work for nothing. Mr. Secretary, you've misunderstood something. When you sided with the capital, you didn't mean the capital you should have. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] That's not the capital, Mr. Secretary. You shouldn't have sided with the big people with the money, you should have sided with the families of vineyards who are going to be forced to ruin their entire year's work again because of you. And if this is the solution to the future, then hurry up, for the cherry is ripe, and the apple will grow in autumn; if it is also beaten down, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Then you really have to step on it, because they're getting in slowly, and they can't waste it for nothing anymore. I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-17-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 37 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence:. What is the government doing to increase Hungary's security? It's an address. Congressman András Aradski, please.
u2019-06-17-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In recent years, defence investments have increased significantly and a number of measures have been taken to appreciate soldiers. The government wants a strong, powerful defense for our country. The aim is for Hungary, the Hungarian Defence Forces, to have the decisive force of the region. As an example, we can mention the development of the Zrínyi 2026, or the modernisation of the helicopter fleet, which will enrich the defence with twenty turbo-powered helicopters. In addition to technical developments, however, we must not forget the soldiers, as they are the focus of all these developments. The military career is established, the status and predictability of soldiers are ensured in order to appreciate soldiers. In 2015, the government decided to increase the salary of soldiers by 50%. The last 5 percent of this was due in January. Instead of 5 it was increased by 7.4 percent, which means an average monthly salary increase of 30 thousand HUF. Civilians working in the military, who are working in a new classification as defence workers, will receive a uniform 35 percent salary development in four years. From January this year, a 20 percent increase was made depending on school education, which represents an average of HUF 39 200-74 100 per month. The government also places particular emphasis on patriotic, defence education, the importance of addressing young people. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is one of the safest countries in the world, thanks to the Hungarian Army, the Hungarian soldiers. In order to remain this way in the future, the 2020 budget exceeds all previous records of security, the amount planned for defence spending. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: what is the government doing to increase Hungary's security? How will the Hungarian Defence Fund's budget change in 2020? What further developments are planned in the framework of the programme of defence and force development in Zrínyi 2026, Zrínyi? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer to the interpellation question by Mr Szilárd Németh State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First, the government asks the Hungarian people about what to spend the money for. This is how the government defined the 2020 budget, which will begin the day after tomorrow, but everyone has already been able to know the different chapters. During the interviews, we have already received a question about the budget, which the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance said is the most important element of this budget, that the programme started a few years ago, which is the support and position of Hungarian families raising children, must be continued in any way. That is why this budget is called on the family budget, which includes the family protection action plan that we intend to implement in 2020. And it includes the economic protection program in which we need to be able to protect our achievements together. Hungarian businesses need to be placed in a position to compete, even if they are making some bad decisions about the European economy in Europe, and this puts Europe in a difficult position. However, security is the most important basis for economic growth and the strengthening of families, and this security must therefore be sacrificed. As Congressman said, Hungarian Homeland Security, Internal Security, the country's sovereignty, the main depositary of human security, is the Hungarian Defence Agency. Today, Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe, and the government, listening to people's requests, wants to continue to maintain this, so next year the country can spend 173 billion HUF more on maintaining security than otherwise in 2019, which was already a peak performance in itself, so we could spend a peak amount on security. In particular, the Hungarian Defence budget will increase by HUF 103 billion, by 20 percent, and the Hungarian Defence budget will reach 616 billion. And what you asked me, Congressman, is what we are going to use it for: I would also like to highlight three very important objectives. One of them is the continuation and scheduled continuation of the programme of defence and military development in Zrínyi 2026. We have 216 billion more to develop. This includes, of course, the development of defence, i.e. the continuation of the wage increase that our soldiers achieved in 2019 were virtually over 50 percent, the creation of a new legal status and additional wage increases, which are the meaning of the Defence Employee Act. Of course, it includes the law enforcement wage increase in 2020, which will affect not only the military, but also the internal affairs wallet. On the other hand, it includes, of course, the development of forces, whether I look at the air force or the ground forces, or our program, the digital soldier, which is about individual equipment in the lives of soldiers and the modernisation of service places. This includes, of course, border protection as the biggest challenge. Migration will continue to be a major challenge in Europe for decades, according to all prognosis. The Hungarian Defence Forces must also be able to protect the country at the border. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2019-06-17-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-06-17-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I was pleased to hear from you that this is a process in which the 2020 Budget Act fits into, namely, the process of Hungary's desire to have a strong military potential. As members of NATO, we are also obliged to maintain a force that can protect our own country compared to our options. This comes together with NATO's other forces and thus ensures the existence of the entire North Atlantic security system, through which it is naturally apparent that prosperity, peaceful coexistence, and military security have an important role to play in the development of the entire region. I also think it is very important that you have mentioned that we have asked people, that people are willing and want to develop forces. So in this respect, I accept your answer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, honourable House, the Member has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Erik Fülöp, an independent Member, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, What effective measures is the Government taking to protect the Tisza ecosystem? It's an address. Dear House, I would also like to inform you and Mr Interpeller that by responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, who has appointed Mr Tibor Pogácsás Secretary of State to give his answer. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, For decades, we have been stunned by the fact that every year tens of tons of garbage, tens of tons of garbage float on the water at the water escape in the small circles, where besides the natural swimming spree, there are plenty of plastic trash in the Tisza. Most of the waste comes from Transcarpathia, but there is a huge amount of waste in the river and in the floodplain in Hungary as well. According to statistical data, 20-40 tonnes of waste is cleaned each year at Tisza Kiskörá, but 62 tons of trash were extracted during the big flood in 2010. Unfortunately, the only technical possibility in Hungary is that, by partially opening the shutter boards, clean water can flow freely under the boards, and the eyes will remain on the surface of the water, which will be removed by water professionals after the flood. It is even surprising that due to the negligence and irresponsible environmental standards of the Ukrainian state, Hungarian water professionals have to fight an increasingly hopeless battle every year in the hope of maintaining the Tisza ecological level. However, there is little mention of the damage caused by this continuous pollution to flora and fauna within the ecosystem. In 2017 Wessling Hungary Kft. It has carried out a microplastic test and, according to its results, in Tisza, although plastic contamination is not visible to the naked eye, it is also significant in the light of international results and is of great concern. Based on the above data, it was found that millions of microplasty swim down the Upper Tisán hourly. In several studies, microplastics have been shown to enter the gastrointestinal tract and tissues of organisms, where they can physically cause various changes, and their consumption also endangers human health. Since the tests were carried out, the plastic pollution situation of Tisza has not improved, and it can even be said from the current state that the environmental burden of plastics represents an even greater degree. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what effective measures the Government is taking to protect and rebuild the Tisza ecosystem. Did you draw the Ukrainian Government's attention to the extremely worrying situation in order to stop further pollution of the Tisza? Also: what long-term vision do they have for the sustainability of the ecological balance state of the Tisza? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Our rivers come from across the border, and this poses a lot of problems, and basically, a large part of the pollution enters the river from beyond the border. This is the case with the Tisza, we know well that there have been a lot of illegal and actually tolerated communal waste deposits in Ukrainian areas, which, in the event of a flood or a major rainy period, will be introduced into the river, and this pollution will obviously appear in Hungary, not knowing the state border. The problem of pollution is regularly raised by the Hungarian party at the meetings of the Hungarian-Ukrainian Border Water Management Committee, and we urge the Ukrainian Government to take measures to eliminate the sources of pollution, to solve the problems of communal waste management, so that it does not enter the living waters. According to the water industry's reports, it is coming from the Transcarpathia of communal waste, which, as I said, comes from illegal landfills. Swimming pollutants can be basically captured by the Central Tisza Water Management Directorate at the water escape in the small circles. During the period 2012-18, 16,000 cubic metres of waste was collected there. In 2017, it was decided that the Water Management Board would try to capture waste using a more reliable and efficient method. The government has allocated 1.3 billion forints to this, and this summer the so-called swimming craft technology has already been implemented to divert the drifting drifter to the shore with swimming gear at four intervention sites from which dredging vehicles are loaded and the waste is highlighted. In addition, a collector ship helps to collect smaller waste blocks more effectively. This waste management system will also transform the necessary machinery and equipment park at the water management board. The collection of waste on the beach is relatively large, so it is also planned to involve public workers. For the sake of timely detection, a camera monitoring system is also established in three Transcarpathian settlements, as well as in the border gauge, Tiszabecsen thermal camera station is also established for the night sighting. In addition, I can inform the honourable Member that on 27 June 2019 the fourth international Danube expedition was officially launched in Budapest, involving all the Member States of the Danube, all the countries of the Danube, including the Tisza. Microplastic tests are also carried out using the method of sampling and analysis of the German Ministry of the Environment to detect and detect impurities. During this period, the European Union will develop its plastic strategy, the main driving force of which is to protect the environment, the aquatic ecosystem and man, and our country will ensure the good condition and preservation of these environmental systems through the implementation of EU standards and measures. Obviously, the only good solution could be to eliminate the source of pollution and to eliminate the production of pollutants both across borders and within borders. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go. [[15.50]]
u2019-06-17-89	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. There were many moments with which I think we agree, but I experienced small circle conditions on the spot, and it was absolutely shocking that huge, several tons, hundreds of cubic metres of garbage accumulated there. I also agree with the problem that most of this waste comes from Ukraine. Unfortunately, I was there at the scene from the dead, bloated horse carcass through the super-received refrigerator, through millions of PET bottles I noticed almost everything in the water, and this is absolutely amazing, absolutely shocking. So I would propose much more effective, much stronger action, and I think that the Hungarian people would also expect much more effective action in the first place against the Ukrainian authorities, so I cannot accept your response. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-17-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the interpellation questions, and now we've got an instant questioning hour. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. Congressman Peter James has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-91	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, There was once a country kid who came to the capital to shape the fate of the country, the future of the nation. So far, the story could be about both of us, you're from Supper, I'm from Miskolc. [[An uproar, an uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, I'm willing to risk, as I did now, at one time, 30 years ago, perhaps even you were motivated by good intentions. Today, however, we know what controls you, Prime Minister: your own madness of power, on which you are ready to sacrifice the whole country. Believe me, my character is very far from ever being a person like you. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] I'd like to know where you went wrong, Prime Minister. For example, when he first felt that the Prime Minister's salary was no longer enough, he needed much more than that, say, the income of a country, the salary of workers, the pension of our parents, which resulted in us Hungarians becoming the second poorest nation in the Union today, and you, Mr. Prime Minister, under the cover name Lőrinc Mészáros, are the richest man in the country, the new billion dollars. Or when did you think of throwing Hungarians on the streets for the sake of banks? You made a pact with the banks four years ago, since then there have been more than ten thousand evictions in this country, while Ukrainian and Turkish migrant workers are building migrant hotels to have a place to stay. It's pretty amazing. And since it was a migrant hotel, when did Prime Minister first feel that he could enslave Hungarians for the sake of multinationals, and then install tens of thousands of economic immigrants in the place of our displaced countrymen, in three years, say, 86 thousand, in order not to have to increase the wages of Hungarians? And finally, the most serious, suffocating question, Prime Minister: when did you first feel that human life was not expensive? Every year in this country, 24,000 of our compatriots die because they don't have access to proper hospital care, even though there's money for health care, only there's money in your cashier's pocket. Prime Minister, there's already a stadium in Felcsu, there's a small train, there's everything you wanted when you were a kid. Take my advice: if you want to do good to this nation one last time, go back to where you came from. Believe me, a nation will be grateful. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2019-06-17-92	Congressman! Congressman, I'm warning you of the 48th Parliamentary Act. Article 8a of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that it may use only terms which do not prejudice the authority of the House or any person, especially the person questioned on an immediate question. [[Interviews from Jobbik: What word was it, the little train? The stadium?]] Prime Minister's got the floor.
u2019-06-17-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, If the press is well informed, in two years you will be the third leader of the Jobbik Group in the House, who will attack me in an unqualified tone from the opposition benches. The last two had to leave because of the electorate's decision. Please be aware of that. If I understand what you're saying, you want to fight us. But the truth is, they're out of time to recognize who they're really fighting. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Can such words be used?]] You're not fighting with us, you're fighting with your own voters. Last year, Jobbik was the strongest opposition party, and today the weakest party, even the MSZP, was better than you. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] You've lost more than two thirds of your constituents in one year. I understand that you're disappointed and upset, and you're blaming me for this, but please think about it, is it possible that the fault is in your device? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-94	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-95	Prime Minister, you can moan here on paper, but the fact remains that at present one and a half million of our compatriots are planning to leave this country. Forty percent of young people plan to continue their lives abroad because they do not want to work alongside the line from sight to blind for a meal. If these people leave, will you tell me who you want to build this country's future on: Ukrainian, Turkish and Mongolian migrant workers, or do you want to build the country's future on those who need a bag of food every four years in exchange for the vote? Prime Minister, you won the election not because you govern so well, but because you have the media in your hands that lies the star off the sky, you have the State Audit Office, which makes the strongest opposition party bleed financially, and you have a bag of dry pasta to buy the votes of the poorest. Prime Minister, for you, look. That's what this country is worth, a bag of dry noodles, so that's exactly what you're worth to me. Take it with love. [[Delight, applause in the ranks of Jobbik. Mr.Péter Jakab goes with the plastic bag to Viktor Orbán's table.]]
u2019-06-17-96	Congressman, you're about to be a group leader, so don't do this, because this is incompatible with the house rules, because... Congressman, I'm warning you, and since I've repeatedly warned you... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Sit down! Clown! Why don't you sit down?]] Prime Minister's word for a minute.
u2019-06-17-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, You speak on behalf of a party who has lost two thirds of its supporters, shrinked into a dwarf party, joined together with its former main opponent, MSZP and DK, so they received 6.4 percent in the last election. The party I'm speaking for now received 53 percent in the same election. I'm sure you're familiar with the movie acrobatics, "Pedestrian Gallop," in which the knight who lost his hand and foot vows to continue the fight. You remind me of this black knight. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'm asking you quietly, shouldn't you be able to take a break from fighting with such great combat results?
u2019-06-17-98	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: you have been violating the law for months. When will this end? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor, please.
u2019-06-17-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, in 2012, your government re-regulated disability benefits, which, for many people, resulted in a reduction in income, even immediate loss, a drastic deterioration in their living conditions, and the point is that their health would otherwise have improved. Hundreds of thousands of lives have been made miserable, tens of thousands thrown into the ditch. Bitterness, lack of hope, poverty became their share in many families thanks to this law. It is one thing to make such a decision morally, but this decision has not only been morally unacceptable, but since then, as it has been revealed, it has been completely illegal. First, the stakeholders turned to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which stated that it was the most fundamental human rights violations and that the supply of these people was taken away, reviewed and terminated from one moment to the next. Then, in November last year, the Hungarian Constitutional Court decided that Parliament had an obligation to review this law and the whole system, because it was completely untenable and unconstitutional. The deadline for this, Prime Minister, was 31 March this year, so the Hungarian Government and the Fidesz majority, the Fidesz majority, are violating the law by not moving their ears on this matter. [[16.00]] On behalf of the MSZP last November, we submitted our own legislative package, which you voted off, on the basis of the proposals that professional organisations would otherwise find, and since then they have not come forward with their own proposal. So I ask Prime Minister, how long will this illegal state last? How long do these tens of thousands of families have to wait? When can you finally get the compensation required by the Constitutional Court and the Hungarian Constitutional Court and a fair, fair and new system? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-06-17-100	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-06-17-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Let's start from the beginning: when you were on the government, and unfortunately, it was eight long years. [[Lajos Korózs: We asked about 2012!]] They gave aid and not jobs to people with disabilities. In addition, during the Bajna government, I understand that this government was supported by you who took a month's pension from them. [[Lajos Korózs: It was an invalid supply, Prime Minister.]] And today, they're worried about them. I think it's called duplicity. [[Intervention from the opposition benches: No!]] In 2010, the national government stopped the abuse, remembered it, had plenty of it, and offered everyone a job. Today I can tell you that the employment rate of people with disabilities increased from 18% in 2010 to 41,6 percent last year. So we can say that the national government has done a lot to give real work, opportunity and opportunity to those who really need it. We will implement the Constitutional Court's decision, not because you urge it, but because it is the right thing to do. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-102	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let's start at the beginning, Prime Minister. Let's do it again. So in 2012, you made the law, which the Constitutional Court and Strasbourg also stated is in breach of the unconstitutional and international treaty, because it does not respect the most fundamental human rights. Prime Minister, you know, these people don't have anything, but they can't go to friends to jump out on a private plane, like, a good football game. They don't have any friends, they don't have anything. They had a little income, they took it away from them. They've been sitting there for years, and they have no idea what's going to happen to them, Prime Minister. It's expensive to them every day. And, I'm sorry, Prime Minister, you have to change a law not if the Constitutional Court obliges you to do so, because you are in the mood or not, but because you have to obey the law. Let me quote a frequent fidesz statement: the laws must be observed by everyone. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You too!]] You, too, Prime Minister and the Fidesz majority. [[Dr. Pál Völner: For Czeglédy too!]] This would be a case where our own compatriots could help, so please take this more seriously. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-17-104	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-105	The legal answer was already provided by a designated member of the government in a previous interpellation. Now I'd like to offer you the political answer that I understand, that you're talking about who has what or who doesn't have anything, why didn't you think of that when you were on the government? Then they've been taken away, I suspect, at the request of the IMF, one month's pension from pensioners. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] A month's wages were taken from nurses [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] They took a month's wages from doctors [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] One month's wages from the police (Lajos Korózs: That's not true!) A month's wages from civil servants. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either! Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] A month's wages were taken from doctors (Lajos Korózs: This is not true!) One month's wages from the police (Lajos Korózs: That's not true!) A month's wages from civil servants. (Lajos Korózs: That's not true either! Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: That's right!) They chased people into foreign currency loans traps, then bravely sided with banks (Lajos Korózs: That's not true!) And they let them down. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: They've been ruling for nine years!]] You may understand if I am unable to accept any lectures from you on social matters. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-106	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Szabó Timea Head of Action Woman! When you ask, I'll give you the floor. [[Szabó Timea: I can't wait!]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why do you deny the past? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Unfortunately, the situation is that the current Prime Minister of the country has betrayed the 1956 Revolution and the fight for freedom. [[Uproar and clarity in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] He did this with multiple gestures: he did this between 1998 and 2002, when he began to exterminate the 1956 Institute, and he is doing so now, when he is embracing the 1956 Institute to the shame of a company called Veritas, committed to forgery in history. The director of this Veritas, by the way, Mr Szakály, has previously protested the same intention of taking in, because he also felt that there was a limit to everything. I would like to point out that the archives of the 1956 Institute are invaluable, guarding the recollections of the '56 convicts, survivors, relatives. What will be the fate of this? What will be the fate of an institution once created by Árpád Göncz, Imre Mécs, Miklós Vásárhelyi and others, Péter Kende, the library was managed by the widow of Paul Maléter, Judit Gyenes. Now the situation is that there is a demonstration, there is an event, there is a concert in Heroes' Square on this day, when snitches and snitches are on stage together, and 1956's worthy heirs are secretly organizing to set up a banner and remind the country of the true message of 1956 and its honesty. I do not know what has changed in Viktor Orbán, but we can say one thing for certain that you have betrayed 1956. Thank you very much. [[Intercom from the opposition benches: That's right! Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-17-108	I'll give the floor to the Prime Minister for an answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-06-17-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, In our view, the fight against communism is a moral duty. That's what we thought in 1989 in Heroes' field, and that's what I think today. And as for your question about the future of the Institute of 56: please don't worry, you'll be in the right place at Veritas. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-110	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-06-17-111	Thank you for the floor. It is a pity that the director of Veritas was not convinced of this before, and even asked for the opposite, that they, the Institute 56, should not be included in Veritas. That means they'll override the director of Veritas's intentions. Second, the Orbán government is fighting communism only orally. I would like to point out that, starting from Agent Krakus and, for example, in the direct leadership of the capital, previous pro-state leaders appear. And the Orbán government and Fidesz are the parties in Hungary that hinder the publicity of agent files in Hungary. So you guys are very selective against communism. And speaking of 56: in Kossuth Square, there was the 56 heirloom, and you also moved it. The statue of Imre Nagy was also transported. Now, even the name of the 56 Institute will be removed. This is how you take care of national interests, and this is how you take care of national values. You betrayed the 1956 Revolution. [[Miklós Soltész: Another applause.]]
u2019-06-17-112	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-06-17-113	Thank you very much. I do not appreciate the need for an actual political debate on the martyrship of Imre Nagy, but we are not here to please what we are forced to do. Therefore, I must remind you that you are sitting in a party whose president has condemned thirty years ago that we Hungarians have demanded the restoration of freedom and national independence. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's not true! A statement from the ruling parties: Yes, you can.]] You are sitting in a party the president of which conducted a cavalry attack against Hungarian citizens in 2006. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Shame! That's right.]] You're sitting in a party whose president confessed to lying in the morning, night and night. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] You speak for a party whose president destroyed Hungary and turned Hungarian against Hungarian. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] Who here denies the past, honourable Member? ! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-114	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: why do banks like NER fall short? It's an address. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman to accept the person who is responding, or to wait for Mr President's presence and ask her for the answer personally.
u2019-06-17-115	Mr President, On the question of why the banks that are dear to NER are failing, I am looking forward to President Matolcsy's reply in person.
u2019-06-17-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár, the representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck will take the floor first. [[16.10]]
u2019-06-17-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, According to recent data from the Australian Institute for Economic and Peace Research, today there are one billion people in the world in areas with high or very high risks of climate change: drought, floods, soil desertification, unbearable heat waves, and more. This will almost certainly be the main cause of migration in the future. It's no coincidence that Germany started preparing its climate bill. It is also a coincidence that the British and Irish parliaments have adopted a climate crisis resolution. And it is no coincidence that the Finnish government is planning a carbon neutral economy by 2035. And it's no coincidence that Pope Francis is talking about it. We know that climate change is particularly sensitive to Hungary. Extreme weather already has serious economic consequences, let's just think about agriculture, prices are rising steeply, and summer heat waves in Hungary are already demanding people's lives. You, Prime Minister, represented the interests of the automotive industry in Brussels instead of the health of Hungarian people when you vetoed the EU's more stringent climate objectives at the last European Council meeting. And your government was also not in the interest of the Hungarian people, when last week you voted off the LMP's proposal for a decision to establish a climate crisis, which we submitted again today. I would like to know, Prime Minister, that at the next European Council, you will support the EU's stricter climate objectives and that you are willing, Prime Minister, or willing to support the LMP's proposal for a decision to establish a climate crisis. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-06-17-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-06-17-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to make it clear that I have been in the interests of the Hungarian people in Brussels, and I will continue to do so in the future. In this particular case, we will take a common position with the V4. As far as the substance of the case is concerned, I quote the Fundamental Law of Hungary: we bear responsibility for our successors, so we protect the living conditions of the generations after us by using our material, spiritual and natural resources carefully. Since 2011 this is a constitutional obligation for you, all Hungarian Members of Parliament and the Government. I would like to assure you that it is important for the Government of Hungary to protect the environment, and it is important to fight climate change, because we all want cleaner water, cleaner air and more bearable climates, so Hungary fulfils all its international obligations. I would also like to say that the government's aim is to ensure that in the long term Hungarian electricity generation comes from two sources, nuclear energy and renewable energy, primarily solar power plants. With the combined use of solar and nuclear power, much of the Hungarian electricity production can be carbon-free. I ask you to support us in this. I would just like to mention one example of why I am asking you to support nuclear power: Germany is today struggling with the failure to reduce its CO2 emissions at the agreed pace, while it is a much richer country than we are. Today, in Hungary, CO2 emissions per capita are 40 percent lower than climate and environmental protection in Germany. We can't do this without Atomic Energy, so please support the construction of the new Paks block. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-120	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will also address a one-minute rejoinder to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2019-06-17-121	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, President János Áder today considers climate change to be the world's biggest and most pressing challenge. In the LMP's proposal for a decision, which we have submitted, we ask, inter alia, for the implementation of three main tasks. Firstly, that the Government of Hungary should start developing Hungary's Climate Law, and this year we will adopt it in the same way as the German Government. Secondly, we ask that programmes which do not curb climate change cannot be implemented from European Union and domestic sources. Thirdly, we would like to ask that adaptation tasks be taken into account and implemented as soon as possible. I think Prime Minister is aware that the LMP does not support nuclear energy, the Paks enlargement, but we are very happy to present to Parliament an item on the agenda to discuss this issue in detail and for a long time here, because nuclear energy is at least as dangerous as the increase in CO2 emissions.
u2019-06-17-122	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-06-17-123	Dear fellow Member, We are happy to consider your request and your suggestions. We cannot bypass the debate on the nuclear power plant. The International Energy Agency also says that nuclear energy should be put back on the international energy policy spectrum. I'd like to repeat that either you have climate targets and you have Paks, or you don't have Paks, and you have no climate targets. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue [[Németh Szilárd István: It's time! Moraj in the ranks of pro-government representatives.]] "You want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. It's Szabó Timea's faction leader. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, you couldn't make any gestures after the 28 deaths of the Mermaid ship, you couldn't go down to the Margaret Bridge and put down a flower, or at least throw one in the Danube. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among other things: Come on! Shame!]] He couldn't put the black flag on his office in the Castle. He couldn't do anything to express his sympathy for the victims' families. He talked about hospitality and all that nonsense. Then, of course, we learned why this happened: you are guilty and trying to save your own skin. It turns out that the owner of the Viking Swiss ship has a joint venture with the Hungarian state, and this company is skimming the profits of the Danube shipping. This joint venture was set up under your administration, and in addition, by the fact that Antal Rogán and your daughter, Ráhel Orbán, guaranteed the profits of this Swiss company, half of the profits went out to an uncontrollable Swiss company with an uncontrollable background. In English, Ráhel Orbán and Antal Rogán have exactly the aim of making the most profit and making the most chaos on the Danube. Of course, this has resulted in a disaster that has unfortunately been predicted for a long time, with fatalities. You provided the Viking ship with inexplicable benefits. First of all, they released the Ukrainian ship captain who had a case... [[Németh Szilárd István: The court released him! Intercoms from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] The question arises, let me finish. I wonder where this captain got 15 million forints from on the salary he's getting from this Swiss company. [[An uproar in the ranks of pro-government representatives.]] Two, more than that, you've released this Swiss ship from the country. What really happened? This isn't just a boating accident, Prime Minister. It's your grating and irresponsibleness that caused a very harsh disaster. Prime Minister, you let the physical evidence disappear. Who gave you permission to leave the Swiss ship? Did you agree to this decision? Do you plan to investigate this? Or would they change the shipping rules of the Danube? Thank you. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Shame on you! It's terrible. Szabó Timea: 28 people are dead!]]
u2019-06-17-126	The answer is to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister. And I warn the head of the faction of the Parliamentary Act 48. I think you should read it once. [[Szabó Timea: They must keep it!]] Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-06-17-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members! I have been serving here in the Hungarian Parliament for 30 years, but I have never heard a more distasteful comment. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! Applause from the pro-government benches.]] By the way, I discussed all the issues, including the issue of condolences, with the President of South Korea the day after the accident. Ladies and Gentlemen, Tragedy shook the whole country. We must take seriously that the victims were our guests, they chose our country, and we received them, and so it is right to mourn in our hearts and to give them a memory. At the same time, I would like to inform this House that 498 people have participated in the mermaid's extraction work, some of them also risked their lives. Thank you to the participants in the rescue, thank you for your work. Thank you for working on bringing the wreckage and the victims to the surface. Their exemplary standing commands respect and deserves all respect. And I've instructed the authorities to conduct an extensive, thorough investigation. I look forward to the outcome of this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2019-06-17-128	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a moment's time for the head of the faction. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-129	Prime Minister, you should be ashamed of yourself. If there's a murder in this country, won't the police start investigating because they're grieving? Or because I'm sorry? Well, what do you think you're doing? ! 28 people died here, and you keep covering your tracks. How come they let this ship out? You didn't answer my questions. Who let you out? Who gave you permission to leave the ship? How come they repainted and repaired that ship afterwards? That the captain was able to erase everything from his phone when the police started investigating him? ! Thank you very much for the rescue work, they were indeed professional, and we are grateful. But we're not talking about that, we're talking about the investigation, and the fact that Antal Rogán's Ministry wants to bribe an extra profit along with your daughter, which has already caused this disaster, and will cause more catastrophes. Several people have asked that these large hotel ships not be allowed to roam around at night because it's a danger to their lives. How long are you gonna do this for your extra billion?
u2019-06-17-130	Congresswoman, Madam Head of the Group, I must warn you. You just have to think. He's trying to make a political profit out of this unfortunate incident. [[Szabó Timea: That's not it.]] Yes, it is. It's obvious. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea: You didn't answer my questions!]] For a moment, Prime Minister. [[Szabó Timea: Would you rather there were more such misfortunes?]] Now, I warn you once again, and if you wish, we can proceed without further delay in accordance with paragraph 4. [[Szabó Timea: Pretend to act.]] Prime Minister! [[Viktor Orbán: I do not wish to answer.]] Prime Minister does not wish to answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: what means can public information be forced out? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Do I respectfully ask you to accept the person of the responder, or do you wait for the Minister's presence in Parliament by saying the answer?
u2019-06-17-131	I accept, Mr. President.
u2019-06-17-132	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-133	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Gergely Christmas, well-known to all of us, is running amok at the head of the Zugló municipality. There is chaos in the district, and the scandal continues week after week around the mayor's activities of Gergely Christmas, who enjoyed the confidence of the entire left when he was elected. The trust of the entire left! Christmas led the Zuglós to believe that he would be a model of transparency, making each contract available to the public in a searchable form. Sadly, however, as is typical of left-wing politicians, Christmas has made the exact opposite of its promise in its district. Gábor Vágó made a statement about transparency, who broke his knife into the task. The municipality led by the left has fallen to the point where its own representatives of the municipality have to submit a public interest request to the secretive mayor. This is a hair-scraping and outrageous exercise, although it is not surprising in view of Christmas's activities so far. Fidesz in Zugló has thus repeatedly submitted requests for data in the public interest, such as unpaid invoices and outstanding amounts. As we have seen before, Christmas is doing everything in its power to cover up bad, bad and irresponsible farming. He did not answer the questions, he did not ensure transparency, he violated the relevant legislative provisions. This case is further proof of Christmas's inadequacy. Christmas does not implement the decisions of the body of representatives, with the maintenance of the parking system it causes a daily loss of HUF 1 million to the district, and now it hides public information from the public. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what means can be used to force public information to be made available. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, the answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-17-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The mayor of Zugló, Gergely Christmas proves from time to time that he is unfit for the trust of his constituents. Unfortunately, the transparency champion is becoming increasingly obscured. There's chaos in these parking contracts. In the election of the mayor of the mayor of the mayor's position, he promised that Zugló would be a model example of transparency, and that all contracts would be published in searchable form by the municipality. Why would he keep that promise that he didn't need a source? Gergely Christmas is doing everything she can to cover up Zugló's bad management. Even municipal representatives need to submit a request for data in the public interest in order to obtain information. According to our press information, Gergely Karácsony did not respond to their requests for data concerning the management of the district municipality. Hungary's Fundamental Law on Fundamental Rights is set out in Annex VI to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 3 (3) states that everyone has the right to know and disseminate data of general interest for which Article VI of the Fundamental Law applies. Article 4 (4) also states that the enforcement of this right is controlled by an independent authority established by a fundamental law. Also at the basic level, Article 39 (2) declared by the constitutionalist that all public bodies are obliged to account for public finances, public funds and national assets should be treated in accordance with the principles of transparency and purity of public life, and that data on public funds and national assets are data of public interest. These findings also apply to Zugló and Gergely Christmas. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Article 6 of the Fundamental Law states that everyone has the right to know and disseminate data of general interest, for which Article VI of the Fundamental Law applies. Article 4 (4) also states that the enforcement of this right is controlled by an independent authority established by a fundamental law. Also at the basic level, Article 39 (2) declared by the constitutionalist that all public bodies are obliged to account for public finances, public funds and national assets should be treated in accordance with the principles of transparency and purity of public life, and that data on public funds and national assets are data of public interest. These findings also apply to Zugló and Gergely Christmas. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2019-06-17-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-137	Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, on Friday we announced that we had turned to court, because Gergely Christmas, Mayor of Zugló, failed to comply with our public interest data request. Balázs Kovács turned to the Pesti Central District Court on the basis of the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information to order Christmas to issue the requested data. It is not normal in the first place that these data are not made available to Members. Christmases keep secrets, they don't guarantee transparency. After our announcement on Friday, Christmas simply denied the whole case, stating that no data request and request had been received by the municipality. Compared to this, we presented to the press today the documents on the basis of which we were able to prove that such a request had been received, and we also presented Gergely Christmas's own signed answers, which confirms that such a request for data was made and that Christmas asked for an extension of the deadline. That's why we went to court. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a one-minute rejoinder, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-17-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The statements made by the congressman also show that lies are a weak shield when it comes to accounting for the law. The Information Act III. Chapter 3 of the Act sets out which data of general interest and in what form may be requested. This can be done orally, in writing, electronically, and there is a 15-day deadline even for Gergő Christmas. This time limit may be extended only in exceptional cases and may be rejected only under very strict circumstances, for example if it serves as a basis for the decision or if it is the basis of the info law 27. Paragraph 2 of the Act expressly restricts knowledge of the particular type of data from a very narrowly defined interest. The info law is 31. According to § (1) the claimant may appeal to a court if his claim for access to public information has been rejected, so the right of Members or any citizen to know these data is guaranteed by court. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The legislator expressly limited knowledge of that type of data by law for the very limited interest set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. The info law is 31. According to § (1) the claimant may appeal to a court if his claim for access to public information has been rejected, so the right of Members or any citizen to know these data is guaranteed by court. Thank you very much. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2019-06-17-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The fight continues. It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, My colleague Peter James gave you the wrong gift, and you did not accept the bag of dry noodles. I'll just keep it quiet that Máté Kocsis stole it from you right away. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] He probably should've given you a luxury flight ticket to one of the BL matches, he would've accepted that. Let's see what we know from you or your environment. You're the biggest hobby in the world outside the rule of football. He's willing to go to the end of the world for a good match, and he travels mostly with a luxury private jet. There's a sick attraction to luxury machines on your part, because, as we all know, you can't afford that. [[16.30]]
u2019-06-17-142	Congressman! Congressman, you've used a remarkably offensive phrase and then look back from the record. That's why I'm not giving you the floor. It's time for a decision. [[Uproar and interrogation from Jobbik's benches. Gergely Harvesto: Shame on you! How dare you? Tamás Sneider: Dictatorship!]] I ask the Honourable Parliament... prepare him! [[Great noise and cry from the benches of Jobbik: Shame on you!]] Congressman, you should read the relevant legislation. Please prepare the voting machine for a vote. Dear Parliament, The congressman violated the house rules at 48. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act, which is why I am calling for the National Assembly to rule it out today. [[Great noise and interruptions in the benches of Jobbik: Shame on you, Latorcai! Gergely Arató: The Prime Minister is afraid to answer! Crying from Jobbik's benches: Answer me! Answer me! György Szilágyi: He refuses to answer! The majority of the Jobbik and MSZP groups are leaving the Chamber.]] Please vote. [[Vote. There's a lot of noise, interference from the pro-government benches.]] I declare the resolution: on the basis of the votes, Parliament is not a quorum, so you may proceed, Congressman, because you have not ruled it out. [[Cries from the benches of Fidesz: Continue! Go on. Some members of the Jobbik Group are returning to the Chamber.]] Congressman, you may proceed. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Congressman, you may proceed.
u2019-06-17-143	Then it didn't work out either, apparently. Then let's see if the Prime Minister can answer what's going on. So we know that you like to travel with luxury private machines, although a trip like this costs millions of forints, and we also know from you that you are not a wealthy man, so you can't afford that. Indeed, in his declaration of assets, he has savings of about one million forints, and his salary does not allow him to participate in such ways. We also know that if you travel with István Garancsi, one of his favourite oligarchs, István Garancsi will give you these trips as a gift, but here you also act illegally as Prime Minister, because in your declaration of property, you do not make these gifts visible. But a few months ago, Sándor Csányi said that when you travel with OTP private jets, you always pay for these trips yourself. Prime Minister! The question arises: how do you pay for these roads? How can you cover these roads? Do you have any hidden assets? Maybe he has a secret bank account? Is he getting money from someone all the time, or do you have any income you don't report? So I ask you to show me, be so kind, these bills, because you probably received an invoice if you paid them; and give the public an answer on how you paid them; and the question would be: will you show them these bills and do you account the public for how you can pay these trips, these luxury flights? I believe that the Hungarian Prime Minister must be impeccable. This is in the interests of all of us, not only of you, but also of Hungary. Please answer these questions. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-144	Prime Minister, please.
u2019-06-17-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make it clear that, both as Prime Minister and as a private person, I follow all the rules and laws. When doubts arose, the immunity committee discussed this issue, took a decision, took note of its decisions, and acted accordingly. And by the way, I remember seeing you in Rio once in the Olympics. Thank you very much. [[Delightfulness and great applause in the benches of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-06-17-146	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from the congressman, please. [[Noise in the benches of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-06-17-147	The problem, Prime Minister, is that both of us have an account for it, because it was paid by the Parliament, it was an official journey. I'm asking you about your private travels, Prime Minister. Give me an answer to that. [[An uproar in the benches of the governing parties.]] We're looking at you. They say that you are the great protector of Christian Hungary and Christian Europe, a great bastion. You know, when the head of the Christian church holds a Mass in ancient Hungarian territory, do you go and meet the head of the Christian Church as the bastion of Christianity? [[There's a lot of noise in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Head of the Catholic Church!]] No. What are you doing? What are you doing, Prime Minister? Where are you going? He's using a luxury machine to go to the BL finals again with the OTP Csányi machine! How did you pay for this trip, Prime Minister? Tell me, when you have a million-dollar savings, how do you afford to travel 5-8-10 luxurious private jets a year that you pay for? How can you afford this? This clearly shows that it's what's in his statement of assets. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It doesn't cover reality. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-148	The Prime Minister has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2019-06-17-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to the rules of division of labour within the government, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister are never allowed to stay outside the borders of an international event. So much for the Pope's visit. I would also like to remind everyone here that Mr Szilágyi is always fighting for something. Last time, he fought the gambling bill with teeth and nails. After that, it turned out that he was in such a great mood to fight because the Member's family was also managing three large-scale companies that organised gambling and operated gaming machines prior to the entry into force of the law. [[An uproar in the benches of the governing parties.]] There is only one more thing here that will be worth answering to the Member. Can you fight for a cause they don't pay you for? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Great Moralist! A big round of applause in the benches of the governing parties. László Szászfalvi: Moral tube! Morgue!]]
u2019-06-17-150	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:, How can it be avoided in the future that the opposition is obstructing justice? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Minister to be here. [[Nacsa Lawrence nodds.]] In the meantime, the Member tells me that he accepts the person who is responding. State Secretary Pál Völner will respond. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, please.
u2019-06-17-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The last few weeks have proved what we already know: Ferenc Gyurcsány is the leader of the opposition. His wife, Mrs Gyurcsány, runs the opposition representatives in the European Parliament, while Ferenc Gyurcsány drags the opposition parties home. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Make him a statue! Noise, interrogations from the benches of Fidesz: What are you howling about? What are you howling at? The president's ringing the bell.]] Let us recall that when Ferenc Gyurcsány came to be a leader, the country and the Hungarian people always drank the money. They destroyed the country and the Hungarian economy, imposed restrictions on families raising children, made one million people unemployed, and we could list the record of crimes of the Balliberal Government until the end of the day. Of course, Ferenc Gyurcsány's every speech must be interpreted in the framework in which he himself did: they lied in the morning, in the night and in the evening. You lied to the MSZP, you lied to other opposition parties, last time you lied to Gergely Christmas, and, of course, you've been lying to voters since 2004. In connection with a memorable election committee meeting, Gyurcsány recently became more clearly aware that he was pulling the strings on the opposition side. It happened that the MSZP politician, the criminal, the lawyer of the Gyurcsánys, Csaba Czeglédy, was loaded into the last spot of the DK list to give him immunity. Therefore, the Hungarian court asked the NVB to suspend the defendant's immunity in this case, in which the suspicion was HUF 6 billion. An outrageous and unprecedented decision has been made. At the order of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the entire opposition and opposition delegates prevented Csaba Czeglédy's immunity from being suspended. From Jobbik to LMP to Dialogue, everyone helped Gyurcsány, everyone rushed to follow Gyurcsány's orders. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Since then, there has been an amendment of the law before the Parliament, which serves to stop helping criminals in this way. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how it can be avoided in the future that the opposition is obstructing the administration of justice, how appropriate the law before this House is to do so. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-17-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, the answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It seems today that not only the left, but also the opposition, is being pushed through by the old sentence to help the exposed. 'Cause that's what this deal with Czeglédy was about. It only covers not only political matters, as in the old days, but also public law cases today, unfortunately. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Who made these laws? Who brought it?]] We know that Csaba Czeglédy, the lawyer of DK-MSZP, was also in a relationship with the party, the parties, Ferenc Gyurcsány, his wife, the Altus, which could arouse even the greater interest of the prosecution in this 6 billion-dollar VAT fraud case. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What they did to the school cooperatives, there's also a suspicious loan transaction that triggered the National Bank's investigation. [[There's always a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[16.40]] Technically, if we think about it further, we can also say that the red octopus is everywhere and its tentacles reach. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Technically, in the case in which the court had requested that Csaba Czeglédy's immunity be suspended by the Electoral Commission, there were no delegates of opposition parties on the high ground of the task, since apart from the professional arguments, they decided as Ferenc Gyurcsány probably ordered and did not issue it. You can see that we were part of a clown, because from the 36th place, there is probably no way to make it to the European Parliament when Hungary has 21 seats and DK was very far away from this result, no matter how muscular it was. The voters, the entire Hungarian society, have been the victims of a political provocation. By the way, this was already tried last year, only then was the Election Committee so brave and could decide that in such cases immunity would be suspended, because there would obviously be no room for immunity in a criminal case that had already been initiated. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc will take the floor for a moment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. Last week there was a general debate in this House about the law, where we could hear that it was not a coincidence at all, a unique case. The opposition parties who spoke here were absolutely serious about the protection of a criminal [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not true!]] which is confirmed here as well. In fact, they attacked the governing parties and the petitioners who just wanted to settle the situation. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're lying like a river! The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, Péter Ungár was organized in Szombathely from Jobbik to DK, behind Csaba Czeglédy, so opposition parties want to support a criminal in the municipal elections. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] The purpose of the lex Czeglédy is clear: the opposition must not help criminals with immunity. Whoever votes for lex czegledy is on the side of law and people who aren't on the side of criminals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-156	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State.
u2019-06-17-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Especially after my colleague, Andrea Varga-Damm, who strengthens the benches of Jobbik, where we have been hearing for almost ten years that immunity should be abolished [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's what we're talking about, yes! We'll discuss it on the committee tomorrow.]] strongly objecting to this story [[Uproar, constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] where Jobbik's representative voted to uphold immunity. Obviously, this causes you to have a strong dissonance, and it is difficult to deal with, but we should not discuss it so loudly in plenary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And stop my answer. But to answer the question in substance after a little detour, I believe that the authors have found a legal formula that meets the original purpose of immunity, while at the same time preventing these abuses to a sufficient extent in the near future. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: Will this be valid for Miklós Simon? Talk about Miklós Simon.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And stop my answer. But to answer the question in substance after a little detour, I think that the authors have managed to find a legal formula that meets the original purpose of immunity, while at the same time preventing these abuses to a sufficient extent in the near future (Continuous interventions from Jobbik's ranks). György Szilágyi: Will this be valid for Miklós Simon? Talk about Miklós Simon! And in the further future, regardless of Jobbik's operation. Thank you. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2019-06-17-158	[[No sound. It's constant noise.]] Congresswoman Varga-Damm! A little bit if... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Let's not overplay our roles, Mr. President.]] Congresswoman! There's an opportunity at the end. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Doctor! Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: A glass of water!]] to indicate, in the context of a point of order, what this is about... Congresswoman! It's a different genre. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] That doesn't fit, your speeches don't fit in. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Mesterházy... (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. ) Congresswoman! Please allow Congressman Attila Mesterházy to give his speech. [[With a loudspeaker.]] Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a candidate for urgent public service. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. I can see that Congressman accepts it. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-159	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After such an ember debate, I would like to suggest another subject to your attention, and this is the problems of foreign exchange lenders. I have argued on this issue several times with Mr Vice-President, Mr President. You have been stubbornly convinced that you have solved this problem, and there is no problem with foreign exchange lending in Hungary, while tens of thousands of Hungarian families can deny it even today. It is quite clear that in the previous period, this problem arose because the exchange rate was lost, and this loan-reimbursement tranche could not be repaid by the debtors, which was reprimanded by the banks due to the lost exchange rate. Even not so long ago, the Prime Minister himself said in this House that this exchange rate risk was passed on by banks to consumers, to the population, and you said, Mr Vice-President, that the banks did not properly inform foreign exchange lenders about the risks that the exchange rate represents. We have also heard opinions earlier on the fact that this exchange rate has passed away because of the economic crisis. In fact, in a secret analysis, you have also stated in a resolution that it is not really possible to foresee the direction in which the exchange rate will change, and the banks will use your position in court on this basis. Therefore, I would ask Mr Vice-President why, if there is no longer an economic crisis, why didn't he go back to the forint, why didn't the forint strengthen to the previous level, and why didn't the central bank do everything possible to make this forint strengthening happen, because it would make the situation of many hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families in Hungary easier. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-17-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Vice President Martin the Great. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-161	Mr President, Honourable Members, We get this question year after year, and it seems that it turns into such an endless debate about why the exchange rate is as much as it is. I can now say what we have repeatedly said in recent years that the Hungarian National Bank does not have an exchange rate target, and the evolution of the exchange rate indirectly affects the valuation of the central bank through the impact on inflation, which is governed by the current communication of the Monetary Council. I would tell you, as you said, yes, in the case of foreign exchange credit, the exchange rate was a very important factor. However, today we do not have to pay attention to the exchange rate, as every vibration in the exchange rate still causes you to have primordial foreheads, while there is no foreign currency lending. Since 2014-2015 foreign exchange loans have been converted by the government and the MNB. So I don't know why you're worried, when, once again, there is no existing and no new foreign currency credit in the banking system. And why the exchange rate is where it is, once again, dependent on market developments. If you can tell me where you're gonna be, you're a happy man; I don't think anyone should do that. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-163	It seems to me that a person in Hungary is expected to tell us where the exchange rate will be, this debtor, so no one else had to know where this exchange rate would go. And I hear you don't know why I'm worried. Well, I'm worried about the families that are still suing for these credit agreements. This means more than 100,000 lawsuits in Hungary today, and if there were not such a huge exchange rate difference, these lawsuits would probably not be necessary either. So if Vice-President does not understand why we really care about this issue year after year, we are interested because many Hungarian families are still suffering from this construction. Therefore, as long as this construction causes such problems in Hungarian society, we will be interested in this subject even if you shake it off as a dog. Believe me, those Hungarian families who watch the exchange rate because many people in Hungary still watch the exchange rate, they do have a primordial forehead, and, you know, it would be good if they had a pearled forehead, because it would inspire you to do something for the Hungarian families, and not only protect the interests of the banks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-17-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Vice President. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2019-06-17-165	Thank you very much. I told you a year ago what I'm about to tell you. You confuse where the foreign exchange rate has gone or where it goes by whether this exchange rate risk has been properly explained to customers or not. It's two different things. Don't confuse it, please. It's two different things. Whether it was explained or not, it's a matter of individual lawsuits, and where it went from here on out, it doesn't matter. Once again, foreign exchange lending is gone. Instead of pushing why there is a two-figure wage increase in Hungary, or why those people are earning more and more income, why households in Hungary have more than a hundred percent of their GDP-related assets, whether in financial or housing assets, and why very few households in trouble have survived. Because he's gone now, and whoever's in the asset management can buy back his apartment thanks to the government. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] Why don't you ask him about these? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear House, Congressman Imre László is not here, so his immediate question cannot be discussed. Mr Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Could Brussels' migration policy be suitable for financing terrorism and human trafficking? It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Secretary of State for his response to the urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Peter Agh: Yes.]] He'll take it. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-167	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, There is no struggle and effort to effectively protect Europe and our country from illegal immigration while handing out European taxpayers' money from Brussels without stopping through anonymous bank cards. The phenomenon is not new, as the bank card anonymous has been regularly recapitalisation with the UN asylum organisation for some time, with HUF 150,000 on occasion. However, the question is why it is good for us European citizens, and why it is good practice to stop the illegal migrant flood. The bureaucrats in Brussels are not deterred by this dangerous and harmful practice, either, by the fact that they can easily obtain the gift money that we Hungarians are paying due to migrant-friendly politicians in the European Union. Hungary has spent an outstanding amount of money and energy to build our border protection system, which enabled us to protect not only the southern border area of Hungary, but also the external borders of the Schengen area. Brussels has never recognised this work for us, nor has it wished to participate effectively in the costs of building a defence system. However, we Hungarians want to protect our thousand years of history and our Christian culture, we do not want to live in a Europe without nation states. At the same time, however, we must see that pro-immigrant politicians are rather working to weaken Europe's idealism and abolish it when they distribute 150 thousand forints to unknowns. In view of these, I would like to ask the Secretary of State with respect that he can be suitable for indirect support for smugglers and terrorists by common money-sharing practices between Brussels' migrant politicians and the United Nations asylum organisation. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-17-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Since the start of the migration crisis, the Hungarian Government has demonstrated that it will do everything in its power to fulfil its commitments in the European Union in accordance with the basic documents of the European Union. That is why we have been trying and trying to stop illegal migration, unauthorised entry into the country or the territory of the European Union to this day. All voters and all citizens in Hungary, but also in the territory of the European Union, I think that they agree that security is our most important common value, and citizens agree that I believe that the past elections have also shown that immigration and terrorism must be stopped. The last elections all referred to this. Our aim is to make the Hungarian people and citizens of the EU Member States feel safe. That is why we have created the triple protection in which we stop illegal border crossings with the technical facility, the fence and the technical barrier, the Btk. In fact, we have raised the number of illegal immigrants and the number of police officers to be able to carry out border surveillance by 3,000 people. On the other hand, Brussels seems to continue to share migrant cards in the order of tens of thousands. Only over 70,000 were distributed this year. In recent years, more than two million uploads have been made for some HUF 200 billion, without any security checks. In our view, this will not only finance migration in Brussels, but also support terrorism and smuggling of people with anonymous cards. We find it unacceptable that European public money is being used for this. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Agh. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-171	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Unfortunately, it was clear from what he said that the fear that we have is justified. The insane and uncontrolled distribution of funds in Brussels that we can observe can, unfortunately, be an effective means of recapitalisation of terrorists. Just think of the potential of a trained terrorist arriving here if he can count on a fixed amount of funding from European decision-makers in HUF 150,000. I think that this is an extremely harmful and bad process, because this money can be used for things that can clearly harm European people. I ask the government to do everything possible to ensure that European taxpayers' money is not spent on further recapitalisation of migrants, but that this process can indeed be stopped. Just because you think about what kind of community it is where one side stands up for the protection of citizens and the other encourages and motivates people who come here with bad intentions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-17-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian Government is committed to ensuring in the future adequate border protection, which protects the borders of both Hungary and the European Union, and prevents anyone from entering the country illegally and uncontrolled on the Schengen borders guarded by Hungary. We also provide the necessary resources for this. Brussels has not been able to agree to contribute to this border surveillance, but at the same time it is financed by EU taxpayers' money. Obviously, that's unacceptable. In addition to our view that this is a violation of the European Union's treaties, it is obviously also a danger to public security, since the identity and intention of the beneficiary cannot be verified with anonymous credit cards, the purpose and the reason for their use cannot be verified. So we're against it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-17-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. Congressman Péter Ungár asked to speak as a matter of personal concern. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-175	Thank you very much. I would like to wish Fidesz good luck with the contribution of my fellow Member Nacsa, because of personal concerns, to finally find their candidate for mayor in Szombathely. Gábor Király didn't come in, Péter Balázsy, as far as I know he won't do it, the current mayor wants to leave. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Is this personal concern?]] But they won't let him. So I wish you good luck finding the man that András Nemény will defeat on October 6th and returning Szombathely to Saturdays. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-17-176	Thank you, Congressman. I do not consider this a point of order. [[Péter Ungár: That's what I did!]] And especially not personal involvement. [[Péter Ungár: I was deeply touched!]] I mean, nothing about that has been said. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're gonna ask the questions. Congressman Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. What will be the fate of the Szolnok fertilizer factory? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, who is competent and competent on the subject, the question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I'm a little worried that I can go through with it, but I'm still trying to talk culturally. Dear House, What will be the fate of the Szolnok fertilizer factory? A lot of people are asking about Szolnok these days. In this regard, I tried to get a wide range of information, from the Colonel in Disaster Control to the factory's managers to the workers. [[17.00]] I have also reviewed the press's relevant news, and I have to note that the Iron Curtain of the NER media has not been able to pass through this topic. This leads to the conclusion that there is obviously a small embargo of political motivation on the matter, so it is worth recalling briefly what has happened. The sudden interest in the plant started in November last year, and it is worth noting that since 2017 the Hungarian Competition Authority has already investigated several companies in the sector. In any case, in November, all employees were interrogated by the investigating authority. The next round took place at the end of May this year, when the County Disaster Management Board ordered the ban on sulphuric acid production. Since then, the factory in Szolnok has been subject to continuous official vezzatúra. The police have appeared nine times, and the disaster management has appeared twelve times. If the authorities were not present, drones were used to observe the area, as reported by the workers. Even last Thursday, there was an official inspection and a booking of documents at the plant. This method is familiar with Mafia films, but it is not Hollywood, dear colleagues, this Hungarian reality, this NER in operation. On the political opponents, you are instigating László Domokos' party state auditory board to make economic opponents impossible now, it seems that the police worth a better fate, or disaster protection, which, by the way, places conditions against the factory that cannot be met. The shutdown of the sulphuric acid plant acts as a domino principle and leads to paralysis of the entire plant. That's probably why the owner decided to close the factory. The leader asking for his name's silence told me that the company was placed in a force field that they didn't expect, but they just wanted to be allowed to work in peace. That's what I'm asking you to do: let the factory work quietly so that 250 families, along with the suppliers, don't end up on the streets in Szolnok. My question in their name is: what will be the fate of the Szolnok fertilizer factory? Thank you very much for your Gyurcsány-free reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2019-06-17-178	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2019-06-17-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, What will be the fate of the fertilizer plant is obviously in the hands of the owners, the owners must ensure that the plants operate in accordance with the legislation, comply with the rules of operation which are laid down and which are necessary for safe operation. Furthermore, the Ministry of Home Affairs or Disaster Protection does not investigate ownership and does not deal with the economic affairs of companies. The task of disaster management is to enforce legislation. We know well that chemical plants are dangerous plants, working with dangerous substances, and therefore the standards are regularly checked at all similar plants. Thus, the laws apply to everyone alike, and there is a strict duty of care to all those who set up or operate a dangerous plant in Hungary today, not only those who work there must be accounted for with safety for by the owners, but also for the entire population. The National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection, as an industrial safety authority, carries out investigations to prevent accidents involving dangerous substances. We continue to hold on to the fact that security is the main thing here too. The industrial safety authority shall be responsible for the supervision of the safe and lawful operating conditions of hazardous plants and for regular and out-of-court inspections under the legislation. At the moment, we are investigating and prosecuting the case and the company you mentioned, so I can't tell you more about the details of the case and its position in the light of the ongoing case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2019-06-17-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Molnár, from the MSZP Group, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. Bloodsuckers prefer? It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Sándor Pintér has appointed Minister of the Interior with responsibility and competence according to the subject. At the request of Minister Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, This year they have had no luck with animals; in the last few months, the rat invasion has ruffled the mood of the capitals, and now here in the capital, especially in the Danube coast, the mosquito invasion has become an extraordinary problem. Now it's not just such a small problem, it really makes people's lives hell, not just in the evening, but also in the daytime. Moreover, this has already been said here in this House today, that not only the simple, customary types of mosquitoes can be found in Hungary, but mosquitoes have also appeared because of climate change, which can indeed carry serious diseases, as I have indicated, which has already been mentioned here in this House. Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps it is better that you answer, not the agricultural purse, because one of my questions is that you think there is a mosquito invasion, or that people are just seeing it wrong again, and for some reason, the past eight years may be at fault. So, is there really the situation here that people feel every night and every afternoon? [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] What are the plans and what do they offer to people, about when can we expect this kind of impossible situation to change? Is it planned by the government that, where appropriate, the municipal authorities, who are much closer to this problem, are able to catch it more effectively, provide additional resources, and from this additional resource I can even say that they are doing locally all the work you have missed in the past? We've heard that I've just read that there are so many mosquitoes because of the current, the rain in May and the heat. Are all of these things really so difficult to predict, the question about the future is, are you planning to do something to prevent larvae from hatching in the previous phase? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-06-17-182	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2019-06-17-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, People are always right, and this was well proven last April or even this May. People are clearly right. You can really feel the mosquito invasion you're talking about. By the way, in 2013 the government decided to refer mosquito control to the task of disaster control, and by the way, it involves experts to carry out this task, and this task is carried out according to a schedule prepared by these experts.1 billion HUF 483 million is available for mosquito control tasks, and it is possible for municipalities to carry out mosquito damage. On 29 April, mosquito control started with biological larval damage, and then it went on as planned, although it included the fact that the very rainy weather and the floods on the two rivers prevented the continuation of the tasks. However, mosquito control continues, and I must add here that due to the heat alarm released last week, it was not possible to perform mosquito control work, and in this heat it was not allowed to release sprays or toxins. This week, so as of today, the heat alarm is over, so mosquito control has begun. 486 settlements begin and continue to take place on the ground and in the air, including in areas near the Danube and near the Tisza. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-184	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Varju, on behalf of the DK Group, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. When will Fidesz give up forest slaughter in Újpest? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2019-06-17-185	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Here, after the bloodsuckers, let's go to the woodcutters and see what they're doing. Újpest's Fidesz mayor, Zsolt Wintermantel, has been busy killing green vegetation and trees one by one for some time now, and it seems that this is also happening in the Cabbage County area. For your information, this area, this area of the Wolfford, is a green area that is specifically situated next to a large housing site, which I think should be better protected. The mayor of Fidesz would be cutting down two acres of forest for the sake of an archery center, instead of assigning an unforested area. In this case, the word of the Újpest people did not really matter, because Zsolt Wintermantel already talks about this in the Cabal County Regulatory Plan, and it is a decided fact, and it must be built here, despite the fact that, according to the general meeting's decision, I can say that the area has already been given, and that it has been loaned to the Arrow Association for 15 years, free of charge. [[17.10]] I could ask what kind of loan we are talking about in the case of an area that is given free of charge to someone, given to the Fidesz mayor, but we know very well that Fidesz never benefited Hungarians or the Újpestians. I've been out in the field. In exchange for the district's so-called replacement forest, a hathectare area, which, if we look at it now, is, and is, a forest covered with trees of 10-15 meters. That is why I think that it is absolutely necessary to talk about this. However, all other circumstances remain, despite the decision made by the Metropolitan Assembly. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, I ask you, does the Ministry you run agree with the way the mayor of Újpest does deforestation? Thank you.
u2019-06-17-186	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-17-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have already been accustomed to, the congressman's comment is falsely accusing and alarming. The reality is that the Agricultural Ministry and the authorities under its professional control do not agree with any deforestation in their responsibility for forestry and are struggling to ensure that all green areas operate under the conditions of sustainability. The Újpest Farkaserdő is a forest registered in the national forest stock data base and as such has a long-term forest plan that determines the activity with the forest. It is my understanding that forest area demand is indeed planned in the area, for which the competent forest authority has granted a principle authorisation; the use of the forest area for other purposes can only be carried out under very strict conditions. On the one hand, this can only be done in the public interest and only exceptionally, and on the other hand, the use of forest land for other purposes in the agglomeration is subject to the implementation of replacement forest planting in areas of at least the same size. No timber may be cut out on the basis of the authorisation in principle, or the forestry authority has already indicated, at the time of issue of the authorisation in principle, that a sufficient and quality stock should be provided in exchange for the land withdrawn from forestry. As far as I am aware, green areas for sport purposes are planned in the area indicated, where, in principle, trees are not cut up, but the area is only withdrawn from forestry and public parks are established. I would ask the Member not to scare the people concerned for no reason. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-188	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, from the LMP Group, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Folynake studies on the residues of antibiotics and other medicinal products that may be present in drinking water provided, and what measures might be needed on this basis? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2019-06-17-189	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that according to scientific research, the Danube is Europe's most polluted river in terms of residues of antibiotics and other medicinal products. On the upper part of the Danube, an Austrian research found that more than ten times the permitted active substance was a serious infection. It is a scientific fact that excessive antibiotics, which remain in the water, can lead to both reduced fertility and other health risks, including failure of chemotherapy. We also know that the authorisation of these drugs is not ready at the moment, since they only investigate the effects of antibiotics on a drug until the time it remains in the human body, when it is authorised, they do not examine the environmental effects. Here's what I would like to ask you in this regard. Is there any institution, responsible authority that coordinates, supplies Hungarian waters or drinking water that does not contain excessive levels of antibiotic or other drug residues? Do you plan to take any measures to address this serious problem? Is there, in particular, any wide spectrum of testing to take into account the environmental health aspect when authorising medicinal products, in particular that antibiotics are increasingly antibiotic-resistant, causing more and more infections, and they pose an increasing health risk, even to the extent that infections that we thought had been overcome may return in a more aggressive form? So my question on the whole is that the government has any concrete plans for antibiotic residues or drug residues. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-17-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-17-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Fortunately, in Hungary, the control of drinking water and quality control are very strictly regulated. Hungary has very good natural features in the Carpathian Basin, one of which is that 95 percent of our drinking water supply can be achieved from underground water bases, and this is obviously much more protected than surface water, which can be contaminated, so 95 percent of everyone's tap water flows from uncontaminated water. We have transposed Directive 98/83/EC, like all other EU Member States, and there is no regulation on different levels and limits for antibiotics. At the same time, the Member raised the question of what kind of investigation is being carried out. There are several forums to assess and improve the quality of surface water in cooperation at European level. The primary legal framework for this is the Water Framework Directive for all of us. At the same time, this year, 27 June 2019, the fourth international Danube survey of the International Danube Protection Committee will be officially launched, with 51 test points at these 51 test points being carried out in Hungary for more extensive testing than ever before, including water-measurable antibiotics. So the Member will also be able to give a more representative answer to his question here, which is more thorough, as I said, at 51 points, i.e. at half a hundred points, based on the result of measuring the Danube. But like I said, 95 percent of us don't drink this kind of surface water or bathe in it, but water from groundwater. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-192	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When does the government give money to build rentals instead of Olympic facilities? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, answers the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The government refuses to acknowledge it, but in recent years, housing and rent prices have dramatically increased in both the capital and rural cities, but these payments have not been followed. While neither the capital nor the state is willing to build social housing, the housing of many Hungarians is at risk. Earlier on the interpellation, the Secretary of State replied that the person who works can manage, but that is not the case. Take the average wage, which, according to KSH, is 350,000 forints. We could also talk about how this is calculated if it doesn't include the salary of companies under five, but we're letting it go. That's 240 thousand forints net. Let's buy a single woman, say, Marika, who's trying to make it at 240 thousand forints net. But you can't rent a studio in Budapest under 150-160,000 forints, which means that Marika has to make a living of 80,000 forints a month to clothe herself with this. That's why now they can only rent rooms for young, vibrant people. But let's buy a normal family with two children, say, the Szabó family. Based on your calculations, they farm at HUF 500,000 per month net. A 2-3-bedroom apartment can not be rented under 200-250 thousand forints. This means that half of their income is taken away by housing. But if they take credit, they're not much further ahead. After the bitter collection of self-esteem, which is HUF 7-8 million for an average apartment, there is not much left for a living in addition to the monthly payments. The CSOK has been used by 100,000 people in four years; therefore, it should not be the Secretary of State's answer to solve the problem. On this basis, I ask what measures are being taken with regard to Airbnb, which boosts real estate prices; there is a plan to regulate housing prices and rent prices; and because I would help Marika and the Szabó family, who can't manage payments or rent prices. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]] [[17.20]]
u2019-06-17-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister András Tállai.
u2019-06-17-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is true that he did not say the oral question written, because the word for word is the same as that of Sándor Burány, so I congratulate him for realizing that this is a serious achievement. As to the substance of your question, you obviously know that in the capital city, the inner districts in general, as in all major cities, are more prestigious, more expensive, so obviously their real estate prices and rents, and this is particularly true in the capital for the tourist inner districts. Now, you're going to the government for rent some kind of intervention, or I don't know what you're expecting. You know very well that the scope of the state is minimal in this area, as private individuals do business here, and this state does not have much to say. In the end, he mentioned Airbnb. What I can tell you is that it is fully regulated by tax laws and condominium laws, and the National Tax and Customs Office pays due attention to this organization to tax properly. As former NAV leader I know this, that separate programs have been made, and the tax authority can produce very serious results in this respect, so these incomes will not remain untaxed in Hungary. As far as the family protection action plan is concerned, which will enter into force on 1 July: you minimized it, but you behaved this way in Parliament, you did not vote for it, nor did it matter to Szabó Timea to solve the housing problem of Hungarian families. Well, that's the dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]]
u2019-06-17-196	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Tilki, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: What are the experiences of the Hungarian Village Program's applications so far? It's an address. Congressman Attila Tilki has the floor.
u2019-06-17-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The impressive performance of the Hungarian economy enabled one of Hungary's largest village development programmes to be launched within the framework of the Hungarian village programme. The objective of the programme is to facilitate the lives of people living in small towns and to increase the conservation of the countryside. The Hungarian village programme is one of the largest rural development programmes in recent years, thanks to which small settlements can receive HUF 150 billion in support together with the village road plan and the village CSOK. It is important to point out that this amount is purely domestic, we are talking about non-EU money. It has not always been so, however, since we remember the period of socialist governance when it has forced not only small settlements but even the municipalities of large cities into total indebtedness thanks to the bad economic policy of the socialist government. Fortunately, it's all in the past. It is a good thing that the government, after restoring the country's public finances, took over the government's debt, announced the programme "Modern Cities." The Hungarian villages can now benefit from the results achieved, the improved economic success. Needless to say, in the region where I come from, I am a Member of Parliament in the region of Satmar-Bereg, these sources of tender are extremely important. In order to prevent so many young people from moving to cities, it is important to create decent living conditions. I am very pleased that, for example, the programme provides a source for the development of community spaces, and not least for the promotion of local and national identity. Dear Secretary of State, The development of the Hungarian village programme is expected by many, and I hope there will be a continuation for the future. After all this, I respectfully ask what the experience so far has been in relation to the applications for the Hungarian village programme. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-17-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As a representative of East Hungary, I think that in opposition he often suffered the lenient, pitiful thinking that was carried by the then governing parties, liberal-socialists, and which they confronted and confronted the countryside of Budapest, the towns of the small villages. I think it is our responsibility to help all over the country, wherever you live, be a capital, because it is the country's headquarters, but let us also help smaller cities. This huge programme has already been launched over the past years, and the most recent and most important thing for us is indeed the Hungarian village programme. There has been no such support in recent years: indeed, we can provide HUF 150 billion in support from non-EU funds and Hungarian support to Hungarian small settlements this year. It is a huge deal that 75 billion forints of this was applied for and will be sent to small rural settlements. In particular, what you asked me was how much interest there is, and the programme has been accepted by either the local governments or the churches living with the local authorities have very good feedback. If you look at 1216 local governments, 949 church communities who have applied for 18 billion forints, then this is a huge deal. But it is at least so big that there is a part of the Hungarian village program where we can specifically support local health care: the construction of medical offices, devices and medical services houses. There have been 385 applications for the development of the clinic, 839 and 11 billion forints for the renovation of the office. This proves the importance and importance of this programme [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and it is perfectly natural that we will continue to maintain it in the future. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-200	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, from Jobbik's faction, would like to ask the Minister of Finance: When will the Ministry do something about the economic breakdown of our country? When will there be a substantial measure to eliminate unemployment in north-east Hungary? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor.
u2019-06-17-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, According to KSH 2019's first quarter statement, the unemployment rate in Hungary was 3.6 percent, but this does not mean that employment in the whole country would develop evenly and proportionately: while in the western and central parts of the country there is a shortage of labour, North-East Hungary is the stepchild of our country in terms of unemployment; whereas in Győr-Moson-Sopron the rate was only 1.3 percent at the end of last year, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County 8.7 percent. In 2018, the government started to reduce public employment programmes. As a result, unemployment has increased in Szabolcs and other counties with more public employment. Besides Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, the labour market relies heavily on public employment in the counties of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Hajdú-Bihar and Békés. However, the situation in Hajdú and Békés deteriorated: unemployment in Hajdú-Bihar increased by 1.1 percentage points, to 6.2 percent, and in Békés by 0.4 percentage points, to 5.2 percent. In my narrower Patria, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, the 6 percent increased by 0.5 percentage points, with an increase in unemployment rates below one year to 8.7 percent. In these departments, the majority of employment positions are opened on the basis of labour office data, so much so that at least 90 percent of new jobs in Borsod and Szabolcs are linked to a public employment programme. This further increases the economic divide of the country, the fallout of the eastern part. I ask Mr Secretary of State when they will finally do something about Hungary's economic split. When will there be a substantial measure to eliminate unemployment in north-east Hungary? I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-202	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-17-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Congressman! I can provide you with information on the current situation in the labour market, and this obviously affects the area you are asking. [[17 .30]] It has an actuality because of the reduction of the social contribution tax, which will occur in a few days, an opportunity that will also allow businesses in North-East Hungary to raise or develop salaries. I must also inform you that under the TOP programme, improvements of a kind can be made that provide employment opportunities and infrastructure development, either through the establishment of an industrial park or through an employment pact organised at district or county level. But in order to respond specifically to the particular region and the problem of the people living there, we have launched a labour market reform with OFA and with the competent staff of government agencies, specifically Szabolcs-Szatmár, Hajdú-Bihar, Borsod, Heves, Nógrád, which concerns counties with a higher unemployment rate than the national average. The essence of this is that we actually monitor those without work through screening, and on this basis we see how they are likely and how they will be able to work in the future: who is only with help, who is with training, who is with greater help, and who is on the employer's side doing this work, namely, we are putting in business contacts, and we are giving new ammunition to employees who have worked in this field before to make these placements more successful. Of course, much remains to be done, there are, indeed, inequalities within the country, but I hope that these programmes will soon contribute to better progress in these areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-204	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of questioning. It's 5:31. We'll continue our work now. The Commission's reports on the simplification of individual administrative procedures and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/5237. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-06-17-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed T/5237 on simplification of individual administrative procedures. Bill No. 1. The Committee adopted the summary report by 28 votes to none, with 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us fits in with the government's bureaucracy reduction action programme, which allows citizens to deal with matters in a faster, cheaper, more convenient and professional way. With regard to the objective of the law, it is worth pointing out that this is not a one-time ad hoc package of measures, but a part of a continuous, thought-out and planned bureaucracy reduction concept, where the citizens' satisfaction and the country's competitiveness can be further enhanced. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the objectives expressed, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás as rapporteur that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have a total timeframe of 10 minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-17-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, T/5237 on simplification of individual administrative procedures The aim of the bill is to reduce bureaucracy and simplify individual procedures. In the light of these objectives, the proposed amendments to the bill clarified the proposed norm and created additional data protection guarantees for certain procedures related to the identity card. As regards procedural guarantees regarding data protection, we have negotiated with the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, their comments have been accepted and incorporated into the text of the bill. The amendments concerned basically two substantive points. The first is the service identifier to be placed on the storage element of the ID card, which is a randomised unique sequence of characters on the document, different from one document to another. In this respect, the Commission's amendment made the rules and guarantees on data processing. The service identifier may be technically used as an identifier for developments related to computer systems where the identifier is assigned to a entitlement, for example, a valid line mark in an underlying register. It was appropriate to introduce a random technical identification number which is not in any way linked to the person concerned, which is only placed on the document, which can provide access to certain services quickly and easily applicable, and which can be used by the employer, for example, to perform tasks arising from job tasks. To this end, it is necessary to ensure the legal basis and purpose of the management of this service identifier, as well as the guarantee elements of its use. On the basis of the amending proposal, it is possible to use both the service identification card and the legal and technological system, i.e. the NEK system, which has already been established under the Single Electronic Cards Framework Act and is properly secured from a data protection point of view, and the amendment also provides an opportunity to build on the identifier independently without using the NEK system. In the case of a stand-alone non-NEC use, the amending proposal sets out the following guarantee rules. Only the controller shall be entitled to manage the service identifier in order to verify the existence of the right provided for in a ministerial decree assigned to the service identifier, the rules governing the processing of natural personal data per individual. It expressly prohibits the use of service identifier and the use of service identifier for identification purposes for the interconnection of records containing individual entitlements. Data protection issues were discussed with the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, who accepted the amendments and raised no objections from a data protection point of view. Another point of substance of the amendments is the definition of a forum for declaring representative rights in tax matters. The amendment of the e-administration law, as the necessary improvements have not yet been made, ensures that no declaration of rights can be made to natural persons and self-employed persons in tax matters, even by 31 December 2020. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in a modified form, as amended by the amendments. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the declaration of the Year of National Inclusion for 2020 and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. H/5486 submitted by the National Assembly Committee. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/5486 on the declaration of the Year of National Inclusion in 2020. A proposal for a decision. [[17.40]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were unanimously supported by 34 votes in favour. The final statement of the meeting of the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin on 8 March 2019 includes the request for the Hungarian Parliament to make a proposal for a decision declaring the year of national integration in 2020. In accordance with this request, the National Assembly Committee submitted the proposal for a decision in question as its rapporteur. In the year of the 100th anniversary of the signing of the Trianon peace dictatorship, we intend to bring the proposal for a resolution by means of legislation, by means of law, to devote a day to commemoration and 364 days to national solidarity. As to what happened 100 years ago, we believe that there is a place for remembering the painful past, for showing the shameful Trianon peace dictate as mourning. We need to remember the generations, people, entire ethnic groups whose shameful peace dictate caused a break in their lives, both in communion and in their personal existence, the expulsions and other reproaches that have plagued our entire people as a result of the peace dict. At the same time, in the spirit of this bill, we intend that the year 2020 be the year of anticipation and thanksgiving, in addition to commemoration and respect. Despite the great blow that probably few people could survive, Hungarians remained in the Carpathian Basin for a dominant, strong nation. We have not simply survived Trianon and its consequences, but in the fields of culture, science, arts, sports and all other fields we have been able to achieve in the last hundred years that we can be proud of without reservation. We need to show this to Europe and to the people around us next year. CHAPTER XX In the first century, many painful events that the world's Hungarians lost and suffered as losses. Yet, our faith, our hope, has helped us through these losses, although we can say that XX. From our point of view, it was a century of loss for us. For this reason, this bill has no less purpose than to say that Article 21 of the Act sets out that: The century in which we live will remember the Hungarians of today as winners. Ladies and gentlemen, With these messages, we would like to launch the year of national integration. I would like your support for the adoption of the resolution proposal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-17-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask President Charles Panczél, the chairman of the committee, as rapporteur, to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the President that he has a total timeframe of 10 minutes with any closing words. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I will not abuse your patience, because this is not the first time we have talked about this proposal for a resolution in this House. Indeed, as we heard from the lecturer of the TAB, this year on 8 March, when the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin took place here in Budapest, this request to the Hungarian Parliament was entered in the final statement there, so that 2020 would be the year of national integration. I would like to thank the members of our committee, because the Committee on National Inclusion has submitted to the House a proposal for a resolution with a unanimous proposal, a very consistent proposal, and then, when it was debated here in Parliament, the parliamentary factions present at the time supported this idea, all this proposal for a resolution, just as all the present members of the Legislative Committee voted in favour of this resolution last week. Indeed, we started this memorial year with the idea that we do not want to proclaim a mourning year. Although Trianon really needs to be remembered, this terrible peace dictatorship, the tragedy of the nation, we also need to remember the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin who suffered this country mutilation and suffered its consequences to this day. Let this year indeed be a day of commemoration and 365 days of union! Indeed, not only did we simply survive this attempted murder, we did not simply stay here, but we can say that we are here today as a strong nation in the Carpathian Basin, we have survived this hundred years as a strong nation. This is a hundred years of proof of the nation's will to live, indeed, of all the economic, scientific, artistic and cultural achievements we have shown in the last hundred years. I think it will be appropriate to present this to Europe in 2020 to show the world who we are here in the Carpathian Basin. Indeed, let us show the world that we can truly be winners of a next century! Thank you very much, Mr President, and for the patience of this House. I call on everyone to support the proposal for a resolution in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-17-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr Árpád János Potápi, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government, to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-17-213	Ladies and gentlemen, The government has already supported the parliamentary resolution proposal. It is pleased that a consensus has followed the way of the Parliamentary resolution proposal at both committee meetings and in the general debate. We very much hope that, in the final vote tomorrow, all our fellow Members will support this, and we will really adopt it with a full consensus that we will be able to achieve the year of national cohesion together in 2020. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-17-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated National Assembly Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-17-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, János Bencsik, who followed me, will state the group's position and that, of course, we support any proposal that supports the survival and belonging of our nation. But as a lawyer, I think that I would like to read the decision made against the Hungarian nation and what we acknowledged during the Trianon peace dictatorship. The whole world was horrified... and understood that the war was not alone triggered by the fatal policy of the former Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, but rather prepared in Budapest and Vienna. Edvard Beneš put it this way. Then in the text of the contract it is stated that the Allied and Associated Governments declare that Hungary and its allies, as the cause of losses and damages, are responsible for all the damage they have suffered as a result of the war imposed on them by the Allied and Associated Governments and their citizens, Austria-Hungary and its allies. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Why is it important to say this in this House? Because the year of national solidarity is determined by the Hungarian Parliament from a year in which Hungary was declared a war criminal and which we acknowledged. I think that every year should have been, and always should be, a year of national cohesion in the last hundred years. [[17.50]] But I think that it could have been a year, or even a different day, like June 4th, to determine the year of national cohesion. I think for a betterman, and I think for a true Hungarian patriot that day is a day of mourning and that year is a year of mourning. I consider that we are fleeing because, as my fellow Member who spoke before me said, we want to focus not on the past, but on the future. But there's one thing you can't get away with: you can't get away with facing what created this process back then. Were the leaders of Hungary at the time on top of their situation? Did the leaders of Hungary then stand up enough for the nation? I am not talking specifically about the last months before 4 June, because when they realized what could wait for our country, they tried to do everything they could to change it. Until we face what serious disadvantages our leaders have caused the Hungarian nation in the past, from this point of view, based on these experiences, how do we move into the future? We're only moving into the future by assigning a year like this? No, we enter the future by admitting that mistakes have been made by our former leaders, and learning from those mistakes will not make similar mistakes against our nation in the future. I would like to indicate that the Hungarian population of the Carpathian Basin has decreased by 30 percent over the last hundred years. In this way, how will we be able to ensure survival? Not by a day of memory, not by a year of memory, but by a policy that is for the good of society, when a Hungarian citizen feels that this country is everything to him, and does not think about seeking his prosperity abroad. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that the Jobbik Group will support this resolution proposal in the course of tomorrow. We do this despite the fact that we first submitted it in March 2017 so that on the 100th anniversary of Trianon there would be a memorial to the centenary. This has been voted out on several occasions by the pro-government representatives. However, we will now support your motion on a similar subject and similar subject. Let us do this despite what has been said here by my fellow Member, that neither the name nor the date are considered to be fortunate. For the Hungarian man, June 4th will always be a day of mourning, and Trianon's anniversary will always be a year of mourning. And we are doing this despite the fact that the pro-government representatives did not support our amendment at the committee meeting, which would have said and included in the text of the proposal for a decision the need to support autonomy. We thought that this would have been a very nice and good way to go beyond the wordflowers and the general objectives, and we could now bring an issue into the public's public opinion, which is one of the most decisive legal forms of the guarantee of the collective rights of separated Hungarians in the European Union today, in 2019. We consider it important to discuss the objectives described in the explanatory memorandum, the political, economic, legal and psychological problems of the peace dictatorship that continue to this day. We consider it important to have as many commemorations, conferences, educational and educational materials as possible, teaching materials that are both in schools and television and film creations that can be born in television and cinema, and to produce materials that, for example, bring the problems of Trianon to the public in an interactive, creative and formal way, for example, for young people. We also consider it important to talk not only about the causes and consequences of the tragedy, but also about the successes that have been achieved. The fact that over the last hundred years, this nation has not collapsed, let alone run out, but has been able to give the world a miracle like our Nobel Prize winner scientists or, for example, the boys in Pest. Ladies and gentlemen, Those who do not remember the past are condemned to relive and repeat it. This is why we believe it is important that Hungary does, in contrast to the Trianon narrative of the neighbouring countries, express its own truth, and that we should deliver our own Trianon narrative, explain and explain it to Western European decision-makers and opinion-makers. What we want and expect from you is for the Hungarian government to use its entire diplomatic toolbox and use the centenary to explain why the Trianon peace dictate has not been fair or fair in recent years, decades, as an example of our Slovak and Romanian neighbours, taking it forward with an exemplary diplomatic work, and why it has not provided a long-term solution to the peaceful coexistence of Central European peoples. To prove how serious we are about this proposal, we will present a budgetary amendment on the part of Jobbik, which will provide a sufficient financial background to ensure that this commemorative year is not just one in a row, and not just a mandatory task, but rather a financial background that needs to be put behind it, so that this commemorative year can be organised in a way that really has profound social consequences and meaning. Finally, I would also like to say that although the goals set are good, the main issue is that we can use this commemorative year for real national cohesion. Here we cannot bypass the fact that, starting from the past years, the government has to decide to consider those Hungarians who are not Fidesz supporters and not Fidesz sympathizers as part of the nation. What we see is that the Hungarian model, which requires absolute party loyalty in exchange for the various subsidies, has unfortunately been exported beyond our borders, and that is all, but does not serve the purpose set out in the text of the proposal for a decision. To be even more specific: we see that while before 2010 Ferenc Gyurcsány and the parties he led translated Hungarian against Hungarian, unfortunately we see similar processes. While at that time the referendum of 4 December upset Hungarians across the border against Hungarians in Hungary, we now see that with the media of the Hungarian government and the Hungarian government treasoning the opposition, and as the opposition parties and all entities that do not consist of Fidesz relate, unfortunately, this is turning more and more Hungarian citizens against our foreign blood. We cannot allow this and we cannot leave what we see, unfortunately, more and more, and we must say, fellow Members, that today, in 2019, we are further away from national cohesion than we were in 2010. So it is not enough to talk about national cohesion, and we have to do something about it, and in addition to the partnership effort, we have to stand up and act in favour of foreign Hungarians. For Jobbik Hungary, the Hungarian communities from abroad can count on the Movement. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-218	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next. You have 31 seconds to speak.
u2019-06-17-219	Thank you, Mr. President. I must also take this short time to warn my fellow Members about explaining the certificate that is far from exemplary. It was said that the year of Thanksgiving may or should take place here in some way. Fellow Members, to whom and why do you want to thank for the toughest, worst day of mourning in Hungary? My request is for you to look inside, not to polish that particular certificate, and the term "thanksgiving" about Trianon is in the name of good taste. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-220	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm a representative of a constituency where my northern neighbor is the Uplands, my eastern neighbor is the Transcarpathia, and my southeast neighbor is the Partium. There is no constituency in the country, if you will, in the period after Trianon, if you can say so with three countries. [[18.00]] So I live 30 kilometers from six border crossing points. So I know exactly that the wording that Jobbik's representative said was very unfounded, that in 2010, perhaps we were closer to national cohesion than we are now. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Where is autonomy?]] It's not true because look at all the programs we've made. Our most important vote in 2010 is national cohesion...
u2019-06-17-222	Congressman, I don't remember anyone talking to you. Let us at least have the dignity to listen to each other on this matter. [[Interventions from the benches of Jobbik, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President! Oh, come on. When they yell at me, why don't you... Dr. Attila Tilki:]] I don't remember. Please! Congressman, you had your timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-223	It should be forgotten by Jobbik that the exclusive truth is always what they say. So 2010: it was an uplifting feeling to vote on national cohesion and citizenship. There were a lot of us here. In that debate, you, Congressman, who just spoke from Jobbik, were not here. And let's see what programs we've been doing since. Kőrösi Csoma program, Petőfi Sándor program. You have to go to the sporadic and go to an area where there is majority Hungarians. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] This is hard to understand by the party, Congresswoman, who stands on stage with Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I wasn't on stage with Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] Stands up for Ms Ágnes Vadai as candidate [[The president's ringing the bell.]] who used to scare his party with 23 million Romanians. [[Interviews from Jobbik benches, among others: Mr President, how does Gyurcsány end up at the Trianon memorial? You're out of Parliament on June 4th! You left the Chamber on June 4th! Shame on you!- The president's ringing again.]] Allow me, gentlemen, to respond in the meantime to what is being said. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't lecture me...]] So it's not true what they say, it's been a kindergarten construction program... were they out there? Did you check out the kindergartens they built? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes.]] There was an economic development program out there, and you looked at it? [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Yes...]] 97 percent of Hungarians across the border, why is it that they vote for Fidesz? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Because you influence the press...]] Why is that? Are we gonna drug those with the press, too? Because they consider your politics irresponsible. We have always said, and now we say, that on the question of Hungarians across borders, we must ask the person who lives there. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik, show them! Lajos Rig:...the money was poured into the castle, now look at what it has become.]] You have to ask Transcarpathian Hungarian what he thinks of him and do the same! You have to ask the Hungarians from the Party and Transylvania, ask them what they want and do it like that! You can't say things wobbly and shiveringly, assuming that any propaganda in the Western part of Europe will have a different attitude to what happened a hundred years ago. We talked about this, Congressman, at a committee meeting. I thought that Jobbik had enough, or maybe there was enough national honor not to say the usual stupid thing that we're forced to keep quiet here. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, my God! Will the opposition speak? How are you holding up? It's not professional...]] This is outrageous! The people will vote for you, and believe me, in the cross-border Hungarian question, in the Trianon question, the votes are here, because the path we are doing is right. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame on you!]]
u2019-06-17-224	Thank you. Fellow Members! I think that there could be more dignity and debate on this issue. I didn't wish or wish to qualify for anyone's comment. [[Constant intervention from the governing parties and Jobbik benches.]] I think something triggered this reaction, and I ask that we refrain from doing so. Let's stay away from him. At the committee meeting, it was fair to discuss it. I think he could be here with dignity. Excuse me, I'm gonna have to add so much as a senior president, and I'm sorry I can't sit down right now. Thank you very much. [[Z. Kárpat towards the pro-government benches: There is nothing to be proud of...]] Honourable Parliament! I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-225	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, it would be good for political parties to be able to seek consensus on such a subject. The last time I commented on this proposal, I said that we were in favour of this proposal. At the time, I think that one of the Fidesz Members was right when he spoke about belonging and future hopes, because the past has been lived in many ways or there are many ways to live it. One thing I know for sure is that everyone in this room is hurting Trian. We may draw different conclusions from it, we want to remedy it as differently as possible, the damage and tragedy of this, but I would not argue with either of us that everyone is equally in a sort of sequencing or national sequencing of the Trianon peace dictatorship. A little to strengthen not only the consensus, but also a little bit of the debate or a little bit of a critical comment, my fellow Member Tilki says that what you are doing justifies how many votes you will receive from beyond the border. I don't think we know how those who didn't vote would have voted, so it's always possible to play with the fact that those who stayed home may not have voted for you, but I don't want to do this explanation, because we won't know that until they go to vote. [[Árpád János Potápi: They would have voted for us...]] But I would recommend another aspect to your attention, even as party president, you apologized in Transylvania for a referendum on 5 December, because I think it was a wrong decision on the part of the government at the time. [[Dr. Attila Tilki nodds.]] And believe me, it was not easy to make that decision, and it was not easy to say this decision either, because they did not welcome me at the time, nor did they welcome us out of Transylvania. But regardless, I thought that this was the right and moral goal and decision, that a disadvantage, if one should put it that way, or that a wrong political decision should be eliminated, should be put in place, and in this respect, a new chapter should be opened as far as possible for the Hungarian Socialist Party. That is why I would say, ladies and gentlemen, and I would now speak for my own party only, that when we support a decision on national policy, we do, believe us, very sincerely, because we do not expect votes from it, we do not expect that our national brothers across the border will vote for us, if so, but because we support a decision because it is the right one, so we regard it as politically useful, so we expect it to be an act appropriate to the nation. [[Dr. Attila Tilki and Dániel Z. Karpat are constantly speaking to each other, including Dr. Attila Tilki showing six. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is that what you're proud of? Are you embarrassed?]] And now, on this issue, the same thing controls the MSZP fraction. We think it is right to remember this in this form, which is why we support this proposal. And I would ask for some kind of restraint, if you can put it that way, or at least a compromise, so that this area is not the area of party politics. There are so many topics in this Parliament, even in the course of today, which can be debated, and the underlying laws are about to come on the agenda, and I think that everyone there can take advantage of this type of party political stimulus, but perhaps on this subject, we will raise the horizon a little bit higher than this presentation, and perhaps look at this proposal with a slightly larger pátos. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-17-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. President if he wants to... [[Charles Panczél says no.]] Mr President has indicated that he no longer wishes to react. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the legislative provisions for the regulation of livestock farming is now under discussion. The government referral is T/6190. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Zsolt Feldman, Minister of State, as rapporteur, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate or at a later stage. [[Dr. Zsolt Feldman says no.]] The Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that you will have a total timeframe of 10 minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I'm asking if anyone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me. [[Dr. Zsolt Feldman says no.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[18.10]] Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2020 will follow until its closure. The government referral is T/6361. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the general debate on this proposal within a five-hour time frame. I would like to ask Mr. Winner Vinnai to explain the time frame. Mr. Messenger!
u2019-06-17-227	Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has 103 minutes, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 40 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 32 minutes for the MSZP Group, 24 minutes for the DK Group, 22 minutes for the LMP Group, 21 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 11 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers. The speech of the representative, advocate or representative of nationality or representative of the nationalities committee of Hungary will take place in a total of 20 minutes, which will not be included in the timeframe.
u2019-06-17-228	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. You have a total timeframe of 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For the fifth year of this session, three important legislative proposals for next year were presented to you nearly half a year before their entry into force: the next budget bill, the proposal for tax amendments and the bill for 2020 setting up the following budget. We believe that this will further strengthen security, predictability and planning for the economy and Hungarian families. The focus of the 2020 budget is on supporting families, with the government providing more resources than ever, HUF 2228 billion, in line with the actions of the Family Protection Action Plan. Next year's budget will also focus on protecting the economic results achieved and safeguarding the country's security. The planned amendments to the tax laws reflect the continuation of the government's tax reduction policy, thus including a number of measures to assist domestic businesses as part of the economic protection action plan. Finally, as a third bill, the aim of the bill on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2020 is to establish the legislative and regulatory frameworks that are directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of the Central Budget Act. The individual amendments are in line with the government's fiscal and economic policy orientations, which contribute to strong and sustainable economic growth, the protection and support of families and the further reduction of administrative burdens. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the bill, we propose to amend 59 laws in order to achieve these objectives. Please allow me to highlight some of the proposals for amendments. The bill concerns several aspects of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. One of these important elements is the extension of the range of entities that use treasury accounts in order to make even more efficient use of public funds, which is also relevant for government debt management. In particular, those organisations who could have been exempted from various development aids, including by granting loans or bank guarantees for the preservation of liquidity, and are closely linked to the central budget, such as Magyar Kút Nonprofit Zrt., which deals with road development. As another essential element, the proposal also applies to entities that hold accounts with commercial banks. If the proposal is adopted, these organisations will be obliged to transfer and manage their EU subsidy amounts above HUF 50 million and still unused to the Treasury accounts opened. At the same time, I would like to stress that the beneficiaries will continue to have these amounts as account holders, and the Treasury will only make payments from here on the basis of this mandate. The aim of the provision is therefore to keep the funds from the central budget at the Hungarian Treasury until they are actually used, so that we can optimise the management of the public debt. The amendment affects the tasks of the Hungarian Treasury on several points. For example, the keeping of a public-credit register containing data from all budgetary bodies, as well as the regulation of its control procedures. These amendments aim to further reduce the administrative burden in the central administration. In addition, the proposal introduces a mandatory sanction in the interest of public credibility in the event of a failure or failure to fulfil that obligation by the person responsible for reporting in this register. As part of the law governing public finances, it is also necessary to mention the amendments to the Act on Hungary's economic stability, which, in the case of debt-generating transactions by local governments, allows the municipality not to have to apply for a new licence in connection with a transaction that has already been concluded only if it wishes to change the timing of the drawdown of the loan amount. In such cases, it will be sufficient to submit a simplified application for an amendment. The additional administrative reduction element of the bill is that no prior government authorisation will be required for the conclusion of debts of 100% of municipal companies below HUF 50 million, as in the case of municipal transactions. The amendment to the Law on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies sets out frameworks for the establishment of the internal control system of state and municipal owned companies. The aim of this motion is to make the amended legislation even more conducive to regular public spending, so we are proposing new rules in line with international standards for the public companies concerned. The proposal also concerns the provisions of the Public Aid Transparency Act. This will create even greater transparency of budgetary support for foundations set up by 100% state-owned organisations where natural persons are beneficiaries. Dear House, In addition to the legislation governing public finances, let me also say a few words about other important legislative amendments which form part of the bill. In line with the government's measures to protect and strengthen families, the amendment of the Social Administration and Social Benefits Act amends the amount of the nursing fee and the fees of the expert opinion on child care fees. The basic amount of the care fee, similar to the amount of the child's home care fee, is determined by the current central budget law. This basic amount is increased from HUF 32 600 to HUF 39 365. The Social Administration Act defines the proportion of the basic amount of each category of care allowance. The increased care fee for severely disabled persons requiring increased care will be 150 percent of the new basic amount and 180 percent of the primary care fee for the most seriously ill. The proposal to reduce the use of so-called designer drugs at the youngest possible age is even more important to protect children and families. As a result, the services of different types of drug treatment and rehabilitation institutions will be available from the age of 12 to the age of 16. The amendments include parts of the Law on the Protection of Children and Child Welfare Administration. As a result of the government's policy, budget support for the operation of the family nursery and the nursery at work is constantly increasing year by year, helping parents to raise children. In line with this, the amendment contained in the proposal sets out the maximum amount of institutional remuneration payable by parents for these types of institutions. [[18.20]] Therefore, if we adopt our proposal, it is not possible to increase the fee payable by parents for this kindergarten care to a certain extent. Under the current rules, families who are entitled to a regular child protection discount may receive a certificate of Elisabeth twice a year for the purchase of ready-made food, educational supplies and clothing products. As a result of the discussions with Brussels, the well-functioning domestic system of the Erzsébet voucher has become impossible, and since 2019 their distribution has ceased in both paper and electronic form. In view of this, the bill re-regulates the form of this benefit under the regular child protection discount, so that the financial support for the start of the school in September of this year can continue to be provided to families in a smooth manner. At the same time, those entitled to regular child protection benefits will then receive the aid in kind in cash from the guardianship authority, i.e. the benefits that the government has provided to those concerned so far will continue to be provided in cash instead of a voucher. The termination of the Erzsébet vouchers also makes it necessary to amend the Act on the Erzsébet Programme and the Law on the property offered for the benefit of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation. On this basis, the Erzsébet programme will provide a public mission in the future specifically related to participation in youth and children's programmes, the organisation of children's and youth camps, as well as organisational and management tasks related to these tasks. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that under the Erzsébet programme, the camping of children and the promotion of pensioners are still taking place in the same form and according to the rules this year. The next year's camping schedule will be decided later. Also in order to protect children, the bill amends the law on the performance of central authority tasks in cross-border maintenance cases where, due to the regulation of the foreign state concerned, the maintenance fee on the cheque cannot be paid by the banks of Hungary. This currently results in the fact that alimony collected abroad cannot reach the right holders in Hungary, which threatens the financial security necessary for the development of children. With the amendment, it will be possible for foreign authorities to send the maintenance fee to the Hungarian authorities by bank transfer, which will be forwarded directly by the Hungarian authority to the right holders. In order to ensure the fullest possible improvement of the health status of the healthcare system in Hungary, it is important to make the available scientific and professional capacities more complete. To this end, the bill will establish the Foundation of the Central and Eastern European Academy of Oncology by amending the Health Act. The organisation will carry out public tasks with the research, education and support of oncology, ensuring that not only the excellent professional representatives of the Hungarian, but also the neighbouring countries are fully respected, and the creation of a worthy place in the scientific public life. The activities of the Foundation will contribute, inter alia, to the creation of conditions for cancer treatment at a level appropriate to the knowledge of the age. In addition to the social, health and social security laws mentioned above, the bill also amends the provisions of the National Rights Act and the Election Procedure Act, thus clarifying and clarifying the procedural rules for the election of representatives of national self-governments. As part of the bill, the amendment of the law on the local governments of Hungary allows for the free transfer by the bodies of the body of representatives, such as the mayor, of the property owned by the local government within the limits and limits laid down by the local decree. As a result of the proposed regulation, and thereafter, for example, the donation of valuables without a separate body decision will be possible in the event of the recognition of citizens, health workers and educators who are highly involved in the maintenance of local communities. This will remove unnecessary administrative burdens for municipal bodies. I would like to stress that, of course, when donating this valuable, such as a title of honor, a gift may be transferred in accordance with the rules laid down in the local regulation, i.e. within a regulated framework. As I have mentioned, the proposal, in the context of the continuation of the government's tax reduction policy, is part of the amendment of certain tax administration laws. This will further simplify the rules on tax enforcement, which will make it possible for tax administrations to manage resources even more efficiently. In addition, the amendment also provides for the possibility for taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations by electronic means to all municipalities. The bill is part of the amendment of certain laws on economic law, which is intended to ensure consistency with the provisions of the legislation on the electronic administration of individual registers that have been raised over the past period. In this context, the amendment of the Law on notaries aims at clarifying the rules on the suspension of the notary service and the permanent secondment of a deputy. The amendment of the law on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up introduces a special property settlement procedure for the rights registered in favour of companies which have ceased without legal successors, except for ownership and the swift and effective settlement of the fate of the facts recorded. In addition, it also amends the rules on the distribution of assets that have been recovered after the cancellation of the company, and changes the rules for providing free company information. The free company information currently in operation is intended to ensure that any citizen or entity can be sure that the company you are looking for exists and that you can get to know the most important data of this company. The level of free reporting from the business register is far above the existing EU company law requirements and the level of free reporting from the domestic and other state registers. It is important to stress that the publicity of the register is not the same as that it can be used in an unlimited, business-like manner. The data of the company register are public, however, primarily as the data that can be obtained from the land register with certain exceptions are not free, it is possible to get to know them with statutory exceptions and for remuneration. Rethinking free company information became necessary on the one hand because free company information is currently not being used in accordance with the regulatory objective, and this is a significant burden for the State. Some companies download data in bulk from the database currently operating over 500,000 companies, and this is clearly in business interest, with the public-funded, free-access database providing the background. The proposal therefore aims to ensure that the free company information can only be used for information purposes, which, according to the current plans, would be possible 5-10 times a month. However, personal access to company data and company files will remain free of charge at company courts and the Company Information Service. It is a significant milestone for self-employed persons that the amendment of the Act on an individual company will allow them to establish a single-member limited liability company for the purpose of carrying on their economic activities, for which the law establishes special successions, both in terms of their assets and in relation to their private-law relations in relation to their business activities. The amendment also simplifies the process of transformation of individual legal entities and companies by maintaining, as proposed, the audit of accounting documents necessary for transformation, merger and division by the auditor as required by the law on the transformation, merger and division of individual legal entities. Following the amendment of the law, a member not participating in the decision-making process or not cooperating with the other members of the legal person or company will not lead to a failure of the transformation. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the above-mentioned legislative proposals, which directly and indirectly affect the Hungarian budget, domestic public finances, the bill also contains proposals for simplification and for day-to-day life. The amendment to the Civil Procedure Act includes amendments to certain provisions of the high number of personal proceedings concerning the most personal relations of citizens. [[18.30]] The amendment of the arbitration law will also clarify in the future that, in the event of the annulment of the arbitration judgment, the parties may not be required to pay any additional fees and administrative costs due to the arbitration panel in the proceedings following the annulment of the arbitration judgment, and in this connection, the fee for the procedure to be continued following the annulment of the arbitration judgment will be specified in the proposal. The amendment of the Order for Payment Act increases the minimum amount of the procedural fee to be paid for the order for payment procedure and the level of the fee to be calculated on the basis of the number of parties to the proceedings, and the proposal also amends the level of the cost reductions in the order for payment procedure, the enforcement fee and the minimum amount paid for the submission of an application for the imposition of an insurance measure. The protection of Hungarian families as consumers is also a priority for the government in the legislation. This is why the proposal includes an amendment to the Criminal Code concerning the placing on the market of a poor quality product and the fact that consumers are misled, and the fact that a counterfeit product is also included in the regulation. The aim of the amendment is to ensure that the legislation now clearly covers the most serious cases affecting domestic consumers that criminal law seeks to sanction. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, many of the provisions of this bill form a close or indirect unity with the bill on Hungary's central budget for 2020. The individual amendments and regulatory clarifications aim to substantially strengthen the framework for responsible and effective implementation of next year's budget. That is why I ask you to discuss the bill and accept it later. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-17-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 20-20-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With full coverage, Mr State Secretary has presented the entire legislation, but I would like to highlight a number of specific priority areas. On the one hand, this legislative package of proposals, which basically underpins the 2020 budget, comes before the House every year, and we see that there is a result, because year after year the performance of the Hungarian economy, the stability of the budget and the foundation of the budget are increasing. I would like to highlight three specific areas on which I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to why we need to support this package of laws. So the three areas are: one is job creation, the other is job creation, the other is economic growth, and the third is the reduction of bureaucratic processes, which is also important for us. The first topic and area concerns the area of social cooperatives, the introduction of the subject of the so-called Start social cooperative and the definition of its background owners, and the establishment of the basis for its operation at all. We all know, and there are many accusations about public employment, but one thing we have to say is that the number of people involved in public employment is decreasing and more and more people are returning to the world of work. The figures are stubborn facts: over 800,000 employment increases in the last 8-9 years, I think they speak for themselves. What the government is doing now: we are taking another step towards helping those who have not yet found jobs more and more to their position in market conditions. Start social cooperative has two obligations, which is very important to highlight. One is that a self-employed self-employed self-employed self-employed person has to participate in his process and until the very last moment, even when he is established, and the other is that there must always be an owner who is a public-employed, job-seeker who wants to be permanently employed in the world of work and in the market. We know that the person who has not yet found a job is in a difficult situation, because it is very difficult for him to get back to work. What is very important is that Start social cooperative founding costs and other expenses are not included, as they cost zero forints, and what is perhaps very important is that the municipality that is active in the area is able to control these cooperatives in its entirety and can participate in this. I would also point out that it mainly concerns those areas of the country where unemployment is the biggest problem. Another important area is to strengthen, increase and create the capacity of the economy to build a national network of tourism itself. In the legislative package, the government is taking a big step forward in the development of tourism areas, as not only 100 percent of state-owned and active development firms, but also, specifically for asset management, in addition to the tourism agency, include 100 percent state-owned operating companies that can expand this task. We all know that, on the basis of the legislative environment, the government has identified priority areas for the development of tourism areas. However, there are also such priority areas that entangle the whole country and whose operation, maintenance without government intervention and government assistance is difficult and difficult to start. I refer here, for example, to the area of monument-protected castles in Hungary, where this possibility opens up to the possibility that even local authorities can be transferred into state property and the Hungarian State as a trustee can ensure that this area is in working condition. It is very important not only to have tourism revenue in priority tourist areas, but also in areas where we are less strong in employment or in economic performance. The draft legislation itself makes it possible to ensure these areas, the operation of these tourist units, by means of a very rapid solution to both operation, maintenance and exploitation, through a wealth management regulation. At the moment, there are several such tourist developments in the country; now we have an economic basis to ensure that they are maintained. Third, as I said, we are launching a process that will allow for the reduction of various bureaucratic processes, transparency and accelerated data flows. This is specifically the application of the single administrator in the area of individual notary non-court proceedings. This appears to be immediately recorded in a digital register in all non-court notary procedures, all data, documents, declarations to notaries, official and other documents, and what is there, are also available to the notary, so it can be downloaded. You can keep track of this through a diary. What you're speeding up is the case management, the mailing, the central review, the records. It reduces storage costs. In short, it represents a very big step forward within the notary area. In my opinion, we will certainly strengthen the access of notaries and national authorities to the registration of courts or other areas. Not to say the word, the draft legislative package itself sets out, in part, the adoption of the EU's normative and European Parliament regulations, and, on the other hand, it serves the interests of the Hungarian economy, establishing that the 2020 budget is well-founded, supported, and enabling Hungary to continue to operate in the same way as it has produced in recent years. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-17-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman. [[18.40]]
u2019-06-17-233	Mr President, Dear House, In many respects, the opposition representative is uncomfortable when negotiating a salad law, because there are clearly proposals that I can clearly support, and there are proposals in this package that, if I had hair, would now stand on fire. This strange image is increasing by the fact that there is a secretary of state here in this Chamber, who I rank among the three Fidesz State Secretarys with whom it is possible and worthwhile to conduct meaningful, productive professional debates, and I very much hope that this image will not emerge in me by the end of the debate, because we have yet to have a long budget meeting, where I expect similar successes. I hope my compliments to Mr. Secretary of State will not harm you within the party family. I certainly didn't have such a purpose, my intention. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] I can see from the group dynamics the amazing opposition that has become a professional one on the part of the pro-government and precludes fertile debate. At the same time, let us try to fight this for the benefit of Hungarian citizens. When we prepare for a budget package, one inevitably comes to the budget itself. And the hardest thing I see is that, in terms of the expectations of VAT revenue, it is a huge column, and in terms of corporate income expectations, it was a tiny, tiny: after the reduction to 9%, when Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises received a 1 percent, nuanced, small discount, and multi-company companies were huge. Almost half of their tax levels to be paid were released by the government in a single motion, producing a tax haven for a kind of multinational company. The end result is that the expectations of VAT paid by Hungarian people are about twelve or more times as much as expected from corporate tax, and in this corporate tax line there is also the mass of Hungarian companies' contributions, as we know a number of multi-company companies that are essentially not paying taxes. Here we recommend an old Globopolis survey, where they looked at the activities of perhaps top 11-12 multi-company companies, who in the Czech Republic, after the same range of activities, all in all, are placing a 19 percent burden on the central budget. In Hungary, it was 0.35%, so it was less than 1 percent in any case. That implies a brutal gap. What should we do at a time like this? And I do not want to open a budgetary debate, but a budgetary debate. We could look at the items that make the budget more predictable. So not only could we manage billiard balls pushed into the tube by EU implementation, but we could also look at the factors that would be worth addressing in order to create a multiplier effect and increase the Hungarian economy with positive effects. And what I see is that if we have to run through here on a theme by topic, the picture is very, very different, so when an opposition representative has to vote, he has to vote at the same time on the incredibly insufferable things and the very positive initiatives. We could bring anything from questions about the tax system to company data, so let's do it. If, at the moment, three children are subject to a tax liability, a fidesz promise will come to me. This promise was that after three children, a Hungarian woman who works does not have to pay personal income tax. What has become of the promise of reality? About a year later, the government came up with the fact that after four born children, this mother became zero-forint-taxed from the point of view of personal income tax. So there was a motion with a braked foam compared to the original Fidesz promise that could be traced back on the web. The fact is that here the base has been bombed, but much reduced, because unfortunately there are not as many mothers with three children as I would like to see in Hungary, but there are many more than four children. Thus, this narrowed proposal can provide about 30-40 thousand people with some form of benefit in the long term, but the typical and typical Hungarian life situation is that these large-service ladies who literally serve the Hungarian future are not in a well-paying employment relationship. That's typical. So you may not be able to take advantage of this personal income tax allowance to the extent that you would be able to take advantage of it if you didn't charge them through the VAT system with this luxury key, with a 27 percent key of the EU record. And, Mr State Secretary, it has been said in the introduction: there is no debate between us about the fact that there has been a cosmetic concession on a few factors. Where, for example, VAT has been reduced for basic foods, we are talking about 5-7 percent of the typical consumer livestock basket, which can go up to 10 if they do it right. The problem is that the VAT reduction did not result in a price decrease as there is a lack of a monitoring system that examines market developments, or that there is a market trend or a price increase behind it. And we could have intervened in order to bring down the price of VAT. We also see that the VAT content of child rearing articles in Hungary is inconveniently 27 percent. So Fidesz-KDNP is talking about a demographic turnaround, while unfortunately, and I wish that not all of our relevant indicators were getting worse, and the tax content of child rearing products is the highest in Europe. All over Europe, I'll say it again. So, Mr Secretary of State, I propose that we consider, and not for political debate, in any case: I suggest that we consider that, at least with regard to child-rearing articles, or between the foundational and budgetary expectations, we include the quoted price of this VAT reduction, since the future Hungarian, the number of children born, is a clear increase, which appears there and cannot be forinted. Perhaps we can agree on the need to find these points in certain areas of national strategy. And to say that there are still positive moments in this package: I think that the government position on the National Asset Manager was completely wrong at the beginning, but then it showed an improved trend, and although it is far from the full solution that I would like to implement, we can definitely recognize positive signs in it. The original concept of taking property from debtors is that they can stay as tenants, and not you, but another Fidesz State Secretary calls it a public housing program, it was outrageous. I can't identify with that under any circumstances. By reacquiring these people to own their own property under favourable conditions, I can already have an approximate relationship, but the perfect solution for me would be to HUF these so-called loans at the price of the day of admission, which only exist on paper. We'd like to examine, second, how much the injured citizen has paid back. In a large number of these cases, you will find that you have paid back more than you would have been justified, and then we can start arguing about injury charges or compensation for unnecessary damage. If the injured person could get his property back on such a base, he might still be able to claim a refund from the financial institution, and not now, although in a favorable design, but still buy back his property. With regard to the VAT system, let me stop for just one more word. I am very pleased that a reduction process could be launched for hotels, but what we see in this budget is that there is room for a full reduction in VAT on basic foods, of course, this makes sense if a monitoring system guarantees that there will be a price reduction. At the same time, this VAT reduction, which is the way we apply, is also good for the ability of traders or some of them to avoid price reductions through manipulation through substitute products, so a full reduction may have a wider impact, or at least a debate basis, and we should think about where to start. The most important thing, however, is that the original concept, the promise, was about the three children's absence, and that they should try to return to this point, and the VAT content of child-rearing articles must be reduced. These may seem like gestures, but they send a clear message to the Hungarian families that the seven points of the demographic package are not only highlighting certain lucky social groups and trying to favour a few tens of thousands of users because this is the present situation - it is necessary to widen this base, just as in the case of CSOK. I understand that the preferential loan is being tried for as many people as possible, and I do not say that it is an unpleasant term to make available, but the point would be to make available not only the mass of credit and the mass of discounts to young Hungarians who begin their lives in a typical Hungarian situation. And, Mr. Secretary, put your hands on your heart. Without a housing program, without a rental program, what is the value of this if an average young couple in Budapest, who wants to have a child, starts their life, has to pay a rent of over HUF 150,000? There is such a shortage of supply in the metropolitan and especially in the capital real estate market that the cost of housing has become inexhaustible. So when you say that there is an amendment to this package to be made in connection with the dismantling of the Elisabeth programme, I say that in parallel we should put a housing package in a similar voucher system and put it in the budget. This housing support system is included in Jobbik's home-building programme, which would focus on families raising children, and where the most brutally lost are rent or housing costs, compensation can be calculated every month at tens of thousands of levels by the family or the young Hungarian who are expected to raise future taxpayers at home and not be forced abroad. [[18.50]] I understand that the most common thing about the rent-apartment programme is to stay at the word. misunderstandings, and I do not want to use the word " lie" there is a misunderstanding that the migration balance has been reversed, said the Secretary of State once. I don't want to accuse you of lying, maybe it's a misunderstanding. After all, when you calculate the migration balance you're talking about, what are you not counting? They do not include emigrating Hungarian citizens who leave the country working outside, their foreign exchange loans from outside, now their forint loans are paid because they have been converted, but if they do not put down the property card, if they do not completely eliminate their status here, they do not necessarily count as emigrated Hungarians, while we are talking about tens of thousands annually in this sphere. And on the quotes revenue side, we also like to account for our brothers across the border who, in many cases, are trying to find their calculation here in Hungary, which has become smaller. I do not want to tell any of my Hungarian brothers where to go, although obviously prosperity in the homeland in our hearts is the most rewarding solution when someone can get along where he was born and deserves support. But counting them, our brothers across the border, who move to Hungary, to get to the smaller ones, among those who have returned from abroad, say, from Western Europe to a slaughterhouse, at least to distort the data. The same is true of labour market statistics, where they will often say that there are 800,000 more jobs in Hungary, and I will often say that this is a net lie. And we could make a deal. So, if we talked to the Secretary of State about 540,000 jobs, I'd applaud him, and I'd say yes, it's a real achievement, and it really is. But to lie three factors into it; the student workers are distracted by tens of thousands of statistics, even though before 2010, the student workers were not involved in this statistics, although there was not a very good economic age for the then, second, part of the emigrated Hungarians, who did not charge any legal status here, and thirdly report to the public workers mentioned above. Here we could also argue about the methodology of the KSH, although it is not necessarily an integral part of the debate, but the methodology of counting our fellow countrymen working only one hour a month or a week in the same line as the State Secretarys, the two-handed workers, nurses, nurses, nurses, I think this is a wrong approach. That's $800,000, if they pour all these distorting factors into a trough, mix them well, and then have a press conference, but that doesn't make it justice. It would be much more honest, and I think it is more successful, believable, credible for you, too, if you would say that it is, say, 540 thousand or 430,000 or 380, that is also a saving result compared to the previous ones, but it is certainly not worth reducing these discussions to a production report and party debate, as there would be common points standing on the ground of honesty. As I said, I cannot accept, however, the brutal EU record of family support at rhetorical level. I cannot accept the amazing distortion of labour market statistics and the absence of a housing programme. Once again, if the Erzsébet vouchers program is broken down, then let's have a housing certificate program instead. This can be found in Jobbik's concept of "We are waiting." We'll let you or anyone who can get this through Parliament. There is a need for a housing support system and a rent-apartment scheme, in addition to looking at dozens of elements of this proposal by morning, I have sought to find them, which can be supported by any good Hungarian person, regardless of the party's political approach. I trust I will have partners in this debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-234	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-17-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, How difficult this genre is, which we are struggling with now, when it should be about the various laws on which the budget is founded at the same time, will be justified by my suffering in this regard, but this was also confirmed by the voice of Mr Carpath, who began to say so. I'm telling him the truth, it's hard to talk about these laws in such a way that the basic law, which we're not going to discuss in two days' time, we wouldn't touch the budget, or we wouldn't bring the tax laws here, because if there's something to base the budget, it's obviously basically tax laws. These are also important, these 59 laws, which are in this salad package, but obviously the sum of tax laws is even more grounded in the budget. I don't even want to open this debate. Mr Carpát always brings up the Hungarian top 27 percent VAT rate in connection with the flogging of the VAT law. It's hard to say there's no such thing here. As an argument, I can say that in recent years we have taken a lot of VAT from this 27 percent key down to the reduced-taxing circle, the 5 percent round. If we emphasise 27 percent as a very high VAT rate, then we also owe the truth a sentence that the average VAT in the 2020 budget is 21,3%. So it is possible to press this mantra to be 27 percent, but the average is that, if you take it statistically, and in 2020 it decreased by 0.2 percent compared to 2019. But we'll talk about these in detail when we change the tax laws tomorrow. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Mr Secretary of State began by saying that these three laws which have been tabled, which have now been traditionally carried on for years, have worked in practice. Let's just say, even if I know that in two days' time, when we're discussing the budget law, I can already hear some names, who will argue that we will build the budget on an air castle, that we do not see the last year's final numbers, and yet we are planning, and that we will have to change this budget many times. We know that's not true. The budgets of the Orbán government have been well-founded for a decade, all the relevant figures have always stopped, and we clearly have reason to believe that this is the case in 2020. So the State Secretary's statement that this budget, its early referral and the early adoption of the foundation laws are obviously also in my mind for all taxpayers, for all companies, for all Hungarian persons who are connected to the Hungarian economy, for their safety, and for their planning, for their foreseeableness to the economy, and that is why I say that this system has worked, that we have already adopted these laws six months earlier. We're not going on summer vacation without being able to do that this year. And, of course, it must also be pointed out that we obviously believe that, and this is indisputable, that the economic policy of the Orbán government has indisputable results. I would always add that the success of government policy stands or falls on this. If our economic policy were based on air castles, then anything we would represent in other areas would be unreal and this sound economic policy would also be reflected in our election results, especially if compared with the budgetary and economic policies of the previous socialist governments, which, of course, led to the opposite trends in the country. Believe me, voters know that around 2008-2010, when we took over government, the trends in the Hungarian economy, the state of the budget, and we have now consolidated it for a decade, and that we have set this economy on a growing path. Obviously, Mr Secretary of State has referred to this, and we will also talk about it, that when we talk about the economic protection action plan and its current measures, we are talking about this because we obviously want to preserve this success of the Hungarian economy, which we have fought for ourselves for many years, in a European Economic Space, where we are expected to slow down, but we do not want to sacrifice the results that the Hungarian budget has provided for us for years. And what is also typical of us is the conscious social policy that is included in the budget, which I can say to family policy in a different way. Since 2010, we have consistently represented this policy and, obviously, we are spending huge amounts on family policy in the 2020 budget, more than 2200 billion. Let us add, and let us say proudly that the Hungarian government spends most of the money on family policy in Europe in proportion to GDP. [[19.00]] This has been the case during the current budget year, and we have also managed to exceed this by HUF 220 billion in this respect. These 59 laws, which could now be taken into account here, are obviously completely unnecessary to mention, neither of us has done so, I will highlight two areas, two broad areas. One of the provisions concerning local governments, of course, are formulated in several places and in several laws, the first one I can mention is the amendment of the laws on the economic stability of Hungary. When I mention this and mention the municipalities, I must also remind this House of the tragic legacy that the Orbán government had to cope with, that it had to rid the municipalities of a little over a thousand billion municipal debts. Obviously, since then, the Hungarian laws, but in implementing the laws, the government strives to prevent this process from repeating itself, trying to curb the debt of local governments. There are no such trends, but obviously there is a need to correct these rules here and there, and we are doing so now when we give the government greater leeway to deal with such a transaction. I refer here to the fact that the government can investigate that the municipality is able to carry out the particular transaction for which it would borrow, take on debt, and be able to implement it in such a way that it does not result in debt. Or this intention to impose debt is justified, and if you hire and operate an institution in this, there will be no additional budgetary expenditure. But I'm telling you, it's just a discretion, and it's reasonable to consider it from this point of view. In this context, it can be mentioned, and this has been mentioned by the Secretary of State, which points towards simplification. If you've already been judged by a government and said it's okay, pick up this amount of credit, you expensive municipality, because you're taking it for meaningful purposes, but if you want to change the amount of drawing, then you don't have to resort to the government, or you don't have to address the government in case of a government guarantee or guarantee. It is also an important rule that, in the case of an indirect or directly 100 percent municipal owned company, if it were to take out a loan of less than 50 million, it would take up a small loan, then it would no longer require a government licence. Thus, the government rationalizes at the same time and at the same time makes these often difficult procedures more flexible, because it is sometimes difficult for the municipalities to wait for these decisions. The government, on the other hand, rightly listens to these matters, I have mentioned that it does not obviously want the negative trend that has already occurred once again, and that is indebtedness. The other thing that can be mentioned here in relation to the municipalities, I think, is important, a change in the village care system. So far, there have been 600 settlements living with this institution, which the government is now raising to 800 people. I think that's good. I am a representative in a region where there are many small settlements, not always healthy processes taking place from my point of view in these small settlements, and therefore the service opportunities that can be operated through this institution in a village should be allowed by the majority or by the majority of the villages, and it is now possible to introduce village care services even in the case of 800 inhabitants. The amendment of the national minority law is also a bit in this circle. The creation of the register, the counting of votes are always a matter of debate, and we will soon re-enact this in the autumn minority and minority self-government elections, and also the clarifications that are formulated there seem reasonable to me. Here I refer to the fact that when we talk about municipal laws, the material indicates in several places that there are two-thirds laws. If the opposition can help us to do so, it can do the same in these matters, as the better Member has predicted, in order to support the Government's aspirations in some cases and, in other cases, whipped it. I would like to highlight two substantive points on the child protection system. In this sector, too, we always fix certain fees, we fix the fees every year, in this system I am thinking of the maximum fee for nursery or family nursery. But what is more important and it can affect many people: if the municipality wants to hand over a child welfare institution to the church, then it has been burdened with the obligation to give that additional support to the municipality. It is no longer possible to do so, so, if you like, it depends on the rational discretion of the municipality that it operates better in its own maintenance than this system or possibly a church maintainer. Erzsébet vouchers, without talking about the details: yes, I am sorry, too, now it is not the decision of the European Union, because the European Court of Justice has now, in the end, laid down this system that we believe is working well. In this respect, it does not even matter what reasons he saw him violate competition rules; we believe that we only exercised our own national interests when we introduced this system. But it was an out-of-the-counter, smart and well-functioning system, and I think it is important that the government pursues the goals that it has done in this child protection sector through the old Erzsébet vouchers, in the form of money, but in the same way, or in the same way, but in substance. These are the two sectors that I was going to arbitraryly highlight from these 59 laws, and I think that we are going to start negotiating three laws that could be supported with a good heart on the other side, so that if the usual political hand were to transcend everything, the opposition would deny its formula. They're not gonna do that, because they're not gonna do that, because I'm gonna sit through these three days, and I'm gonna be wondering what those cases you're gonna be positive about are, because that's what the betterman just seemed like to me, and at the end of the day, he gave me criticism, and you could hardly hear a positive one. [[Lajos Rig: This is usually the job of the opposition!]] But that's because of their role, there's not that many problems. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-236	Thank you very much, Chairman Harghitai. I give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-06-17-237	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There will be a mix of comments, I will respond to some of the proposals that have been made, and I would also like to add a few points, and perhaps a few new points to the attention of the House and the Members involved in the debate, Mr Secretary of State and Mrs Secretary of State. My first general remark would be, after Mr Harghitai's comment, how you can be so perfect. [[Defiance. Péter Cseresnyés: You've already fired this one!]] I just don't get it. I said this last week on another comment because it is such a recurring chorus, I also said this to my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, because he said that you are excellent and good at economic policy, good at social policy, so you are actually good at everything. If you miss the fact that we don't say positive things about a proposal, then let me ask you, when did you make a critical remark about your own proposal, because then it would be legitimate to suggest that the opposition is constantly criticizing, and the party of government! I would add that you were in opposition, and I sat here for a while and listened to what you said as Secretary of State, well, there wasn't too much praise in your sentences at that time. [[Péter Cseresnyés: For it could not be praised!]] So somehow, that no, it returns to the task of the opposition to point out the critical points, the negatives that it may see as a problem based on its values or beliefs from a pro-government proposal. I would add that, perhaps, you might consider, at times, that a critical remark, which may take its form of amendment, might be accepted, because this has not been the case in the debate of such a tax law or even in the debate on the budget. [[19.10]] I tell you every time a fidesz says and I'm here, I tell you that comparing the 2008 budget to today's budget is like comparing pears to apples. They're both fruit, they both grow on trees, but they have nothing to do with each other. It was then a global economic crisis that defined the Hungarian budget, and now it is not a global economic crisis that needs to be planned. At that time, the financial management of the then government was faced with many problems that resulted in a budget to be put together under much more difficult circumstances. I wish you wouldn't be in this situation, because that means the country won't be in such a crisis. I agree with János Hargitai on this point that it is typical that a very conscious social policy is being taken for sure. That is for sure, but this conscious social policy always benefits the privileged few and the rich and their friends. It never favors those who are in a really difficult situation, who really need help. If we look at, say, budget figures, then welfare expenditure is not increasing, but spending on a declining rate of GDP. It is therefore not true that expenditure on this issue is constantly being increased. The other is that he was very interesting in his composition. He said that local government debt must also be bitten somehow and that there is no such trend now. Yes, because the last time such a trend was seen, they were generated by you, you encouraged the municipalities to become indebted in order to make it more difficult for the government at that time to operate. So they used it as a conscious political tool that you were in a majority position in different municipalities, in order to make it more difficult for the government at the time to move. I would add that this made it difficult not for the government to move, but for the country to move. He said that there were points of good heart in this, for Daniel Z. Carpathian also spoke about it. Unfortunately, the congressman is not in the Chamber right now, but that's why we have to be careful with the positive comments, because they are misunderstood by the Fidesz. The problem with the salad law is they're mixing things up that make it impossible for an opposition representative to make a decision in his heart. Indeed, there are things in a salad law that are positive, in this too, I could mention something that we say is right and good, but there are many initiatives in it that are not acceptable to us, and so the opposition must always make its decision on the one hand and on the other. In this case, yes, in many cases only the "no" button or the polite "no" button remains as an option. I would add that this is a completely legal technique, but I would just like to explain for the record why we will not be able to support this proposal, if necessary. Let me mention some specifics now, because, as you said, 59 laws are affected by this current foundational bill. The first thing I would like to highlight is that you said it in a slightly positive sense, and I would like to highlight the same fact in a slightly negative sense. After all, he said that the village care services could be operated in settlements of less than 800 inhabitants from 2020. I don't think it's positive, but it's pointing to a negative phenomenon. So the initiative itself is not positive, so that you do not misinterpret it, but this shows that this village programme you have started has not yet produced much results. In the last eight to nine years, we have not achieved much results, as this means that the lack of this service is the same problem in growing settlements. The second, which I would like to highlight, you also mentioned as a positive, I would really just like to put it as a neutral statement. It seems to me that you are absolving the self-governments who are transferring the nursery to church reservations, as you said, from the burden of compensation. I believe that it is the responsibility of the State to provide state-owned basic education and secondary care. You can't hit the churches with that. In my mind, if a church wants to run something like this, I think it's okay to decide if it has the means and the opportunity. But not having a parent in a settlement to decide whether to send their child to church or state daycare, kindergarten or school, I don't think that's a good way to go. Once again, I do not want to put this sentence in front of the churches; I just think it is important that a parent can decide what type of school or other institution he would like to send his child to. Then the third, an old evergreen, the social funeral. You can bury yourself with the program of Fidesz. When that idea even came up, it was already, I'm sorry, it was stupid. The fact that this is really bullshit shows that I don't know how many times they're gonna push it. Wouldn't it be easier for you to take this animal back? You guys realize this isn't right. Then what are you guys doing messing with me, pushing his date around all the time? ! I see that the 2021 date is now being extended to 2022. Put a 1 in front of that 2122, and you won't have to deal with it every year. This was a bad initiative, there is no problem in that sense, because it has not been introduced. I think you should take it out and, in fact, forget about this initiative. The following is the amendment to stop social leave for older people, disabled people and large families. That is what the MNÜA has denied, so I have only one question for the Secretary of State: what about this one? Are these completely out of purpose or not? I hope not. I think it was right that the provision of this programme could also be used for such social policy purposes. I would rather say the following to Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth: he will have a new boss, I see from the bill. I think Minister Miklós Kásler is leaving next year, because the foundation he can go to has already been made for him, and he has been paid a larger amount. 500 million forints, this is a very nice amount of money to organize conferences. There's not that much stress, there's not so much trouble, there's no need to go to so many meetings, everyone's just patting on your shoulder. So it would have been easier if you'd fired him and told him it didn't work out, Professor. Indeed, we are talking about a respected oncologist, a scientist. Go where you belong, to the profession you belong to, and where you are a truly respected professor and your knowledge is just as excellent. Then you don't have to spend 500 million forints on this right away, that they're going to set up the Central and Eastern European Academy of Oncology Foundation. And then they could have written, and I'm gonna say again, Miklós Kásler, goodbye. What would still be, I would like to confirm what my better fellow Member has already said. We also believe that the 27 percent VAT rate could be reduced. I understand that you are very aware of social policy, but the 27 percent VAT rate, as they say, is a tax on the poor, because everyone has to pay in a uniform way. They always do, especially me, because God beat me by taking part in the VAT reduction action that the then Gyurcsány government decided it was a better situation if they brought down the VAT from 25 percent to 20 percent and then raised it back to 25 percent, because it's still 2 percent less than where you raised it. So in Hungarian, I think that you could also think for sure about this VAT reduction, because as we can see the macroeconomic path that has been drawn, it would certainly fit into this. I fully agree with the three children's absence as a basic promise, and an old evergreen proposal for MSZP to reduce the VAT on basic foods. That's what we talked about. I'd like to add one thought to what you just said. It is not only worth reducing the VAT rate, but it is also worth reconsidering the scope of basic food, as consumer habits have changed in many ways. This is what I wanted to list at the beginning of the debate, in fact, in a selective way, partly responding to what has been said so far, and perhaps in addition to what has been said so far with some important points that I would also like to draw the attention of this House, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2019-06-17-238	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. [[19.20]]
u2019-06-17-239	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Once again, the moment has come when we can talk about a lot of things, about the fact that, by submitting a multitude of laws, almost 60 laws are intended to be amended at once. It follows that we can talk about virtually anything, and you have to listen to it. That's the minor problem. The bigger problem is that you seem to be able to do anything and take advantage of this opportunity. I don't think I'm going to connect to every single element, but I'd like to repeat some of what my colleagues have said. However, there are areas of emphasis that I think need to be addressed. The first thing I'd like to remember in general is not what's in it, but what's not in it. You have already appeared before Parliament today, and my fellow Member has already talked about the situation of the disabled and the constitutional failure that you have committed in this regard, while here you would have had the opportunity not only to include the legislation here, but also to plan the compensation that is due to them in the 2020 budget. Your crime in 2011 and the consequences that came into force from 2012 were thousands, tens of thousands of people in a situation that was much worse than before. You've been in the last five years, and you've done a million-dollar damage by cutting him off the travel discount, the rental payment opportunity, to cut his dues. This is all on your hands, and when, according to the Constitutional Court, on 31 March, the appeal to restore this has expired on the basis of the decision taken by your court, you should have made a law. They continue not to do so, but to slip away and watch people in this situation. One of the larger circles I would like to talk about is the first thing I would like to mention right now is that in the salad law, they secretly pay for access to company data. It's a really charming story, because a fidesz speaker today, a few hours ago, condemned a local government, the municipality of Zugló, for not having access to data. And now you're coming here, and you're making a law on how to hide data that you think can only be accessed for expensive money, instead of ensuring transparency, and about companies that need to know what condition they are in, and not for serious thousands. In recent years, a number of people have shown that there have been claims for a million-dollar reimbursements in order to access data. The story is not primarily about those to whom you refer that they are selling the data on a commercial basis, but you want to eliminate the possibility, for example, of getting rid of the news about the 100 billion dividend payment and not having to deal with it so that it does not appear to anyone else. I think this is wrong, and it goes against all European regulations. Although I have no doubt that if this has been incorporated into a two-thirds law, they will, and they will. It's still unacceptable what they're doing. The second is such a large package: we can shorten that, because Congressman Mesterházy has already given his opinion on municipal matters. Two of them were already involved in the story of the rule that would prevent local governments from being indebted, and on the other hand, they reminded me of what used to be here. Dear Congressman Harghitai, remember the inquiry that Peter Polt prevented when you owed 24 municipalities each for billions of forints, where the 12 percent commission that you were close to was your friend. So the awareness that my fellow Member referred to here was absolutely so, and the only reason they didn't put their half-group in jail was because Peter Polt had already prevented it and didn't let it be investigated at this time. I also remember the municipal committee meeting, when it was specifically about how the debt of municipalities could be prevented, how it could be prevented. You were the biggest advocates of letting this go at all costs, because you pay wages from what was not, by the way, true, but in any case, you were the biggest advocates of this. And now they've come up with what a savior they've become to the municipalities. Honourable Congressman, You were the ones who indebted him, not only in HUF, but also in foreign currency, and these debts came into being. So here we are talking to you about this, a Pharisee attitude that is more about it, and I am saying this to the Secretary of State, which is what makes it possible for the municipalities to be kept on a leash as much as possible. They want to eliminate what was one of the most important consequences of the change of regime: this country not only consists of government and state, but also of local governments, cities, municipalities, villages, municipalities where self-government is taking place, not only on a municipal level, but also elsewhere. Instead, you're centralizing everything, and you like to farm with a single State Treasury button. I understand that this is the easiest way, as it usually does for banks, that the often ten million HUF credit is much more expensive for many customers and is a much bigger problem than giving one 100 billion HUF. Well, that's what's easier for you, it's done with a button push, it's impossible for the local governments, and they're putting not only the small ones, but the big ones, more and more under the jurisdiction of the state. Therefore, what you are proposing is unacceptable. The third issue, in which you, Mr Secretary of State, began to explain how you will not eliminate the possibility of social leave for pensioners. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the endgame you are playing in this story is the end of a series of events that I would like to draw your attention to for decades. Seventy years ago in this country, there was an intention that both workers and pensioners were paid less because they received services from the state that they were entitled to during recreation, nursery and kindergarten care. In recent decades, following the change of regime, this situation has changed by creating a foundation that is specifically an opportunity for workers and pensioners. If you recall, it was 365 real estate. [[Lajos Korózs: 369!]] 369, says my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, who served this purpose. As a result of your charity, the endgame of this is essentially eliminated, and they now say that whoever wants to buy it on the market should buy it for themselves. Now, as a beauty patch, it will not be immediately terminated, but next year there will be more in the company associated with the Holiday Foundation, from which you will be able to use it. Well, Mr. Secretary, I've never trusted you before, and I'm not going to. I think what you're going to do is eliminate the issue of Elizabeth's voucher. In this regard, I beg you not to refer to Brussels, at least not you, Mr Secretary of State. The fact that they say that in the benches across the street is okay, they're gonna take that line in there, and I'm gonna listen to it from there, but you're gonna have to stop referring to it. You know exactly what the national holiday check was for, what it was meant to do. The fact that it has now been modified, and as a result, what you have done wrong, I add: just as I mentioned in the disabled care system, it has been done wrong, it has become obvious to everyone, and it has not only appeared to the people, it has not only been reduced to hundreds of thousands, not only from the disabled care, not only from the holiday opportunity, but also from the European rules. [[19.30]] Well, what do you wonder about that? That all such property, which was in it today, became the property of Lőrinc Mészáros, and that it is no longer in his interest, because instead it will be necessary to provide it in another large-scale concept, and the pensioners will not fit into it, not that I am surprised, but in this category you cannot, I think, think, because it is really only a story of how people who are close to you, or who you think are one of the better living, and who do not care about others, leave them vulnerablely on the side of the road, because you do nothing else, this is what you do. On the fourth subject, I would like to mention the matter of home care. Here I accept what Mr Secretary of State has said about the implementation and incorporation of other legislation. But, Mr. Secretary, if you're already caught up in this trap, let me just say that with this proposal to the 33,000 people you didn't want to help, those you left behind in the same way, their situation hasn't changed at all. So, if you want to do something good, you should not only be dealing with the 17 thousand people's initiative that you have done, I think you understand what I would like to say, but you also need to take care of it; but, of course, I am probably saying this in vain, because the problem is not that you do not understand what it is, but the problem is that you do not want to solve it. Everything else is more important to you, but those in home care, who, by the way, care not only for children, but also for adults, their fathers, mothers, fathers and fathers, are being taken care of and forced out of this story, are not being recognised for their work, although, as you can see, home care is work, and this should be recognised by law. Since I was just here, I think there was more to the four most important topics, I think I've been concerned, let me deal with a few more. In addition to the incomprehensibility of the salad law, it is another part of the story, but let us deal with the bill 16. Article 73 of the amended social law. § 1 (1) allows psychiatric patients and addicts aged 12 years to be included in the adult care system instead of patients 16 years of age. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: There's not enough children.]] Paragraph 1 allows psychiatric patients and addicts of 12 years of age to be included in the adult care system instead of patients 16 years of age. (An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: There are few children. ) Secretary of State, God bless you, what do you think you're doing? How do you think these kids can be put in there? Is it because they can't solve a situation, by the way? Instead of stadiums, build something to provide, and give these kids a chance to heal. At least take care of the kids. If you can't do that, then I'll say, "You'll have to resign, Mr. Secretary." If you had to do this, and you're willing to do it with a calm heart, as you remember a year ago, that you're out of it, if your conscience is, if you're going to do it with your mind at that time, then I'm going to tell you to resign, because it's unacceptable that you're doing this. You can't do that to kids! I'd like to get back to what's going on with the data and the records, because their intention to change the data records is so untraceable that it's not in the same place, it's everywhere. It's kind of, I gotta say, like Dirty Fred, definitely messing with him. Even if I don't understand what's happening, I'm pretty sure something's happening here, and maybe the day after tomorrow I'll just find out what they're doing in this regard, but the bill is 23. With regard to the identification methods and codes law replacing the identity mark, as amended by Article 4 of the Act, it would be worth considering that the Data Protection Office has seen this bill, because I believe that they should also wake up in this respect. It seems that in institution maintenance, church care, they've come to the end of what they want. That's a little surprising to me now, because by saying the 26. They are already going in that direction, and my fellow Member has even pointed out that they are no longer trying to give everything up, but instead they are acting more modestly in this regard. I think that the bulging has already been illegal, because you have contributed to and watched the fact that in a settlement where there was only one institution, one school, there has also contributed to the fact that the church is otherwise reserved, and that is effectively illegal. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Parents also contributed.]] But since it was adopted that the school was essentially able to survive because of you or because of you, it is no wonder that the schools chose this path. The only problem that should have been faced or faced by you now is how citizens who have been forced into an impossible situation can be accounted for again. I hope they'll never vote for you again. This new foundation really deserves a few words from the approach that Congressman Attila Mesterházy said, but the Health Act is added to the new government foundation. It is obvious here that there is a privateization, for which, by the way, even if we understand the purpose, but why they cannot solve this within their own limits, it is about the same as brainstorming and fabrication of law firms, which is why I think it is equally unacceptable in this circle. The provisions on business registers, as I said, are laid down in Article 44 of this Act. It is difficult to show your relationship with the budget from Section 2 of this article, it is complicated what you describe, but the intention is in it, and it is therefore the task of having this rule adopted here, and it was put here instead of someone else that should have actually been here. Dear Secretary of State, Don't be mad at me, if there was a personal part of this that reminds you of what was important to you last year, then I'm telling you that it should be this year, too, and I'm asking you to consider it, and I want you to take care of two things, the caretakers, the recognition of their work. Two, don't force children into an adult institution with this regulation they want to introduce. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-17-240	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-06-17-241	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Well, yeah, we're in the debate on this year's salad law, and the budget, the current government budget, is a perfect picture of the worldview of the political community currently in government. This was formulated by Mr János Harghitai of the KDNP by pursuing a determined and conscious social policy. [[19.40]] Yes, unfortunately, we see this worldview that you are following, and I think that I will begin with the most painful point of this salad law, the amendment of the public procurement law, because it is true both for the budget and the salad law that they continue the work that has already begun, which is about you serving the needs of certain economic interest groups, serving the interests of certain investors. And now it is up to the amendment of the public procurement law that has been violated, humiliated, raped on countless occasions since birth, and, to say the period of your government, has produced us a Butcher Lurch. A Lőrinc Mészáros, whose assets had not yet reached HUF 1 billion in 2011, its assets exceeded HUF 300 billion by the end of 2018. [[Lajos Rig: Smarter than Zuckerberg, that's why!]] Yes, yes, the speed of his wealth growth was two and a half times the speed of Mark Zuckerberg's, but I think it is basically possible to say that the amendment to the public procurement law requires us to try to make their own situation simpler. The current amendment, in paragraph 43 of the bill, simplifies the government's communication and event organisation activities, allows for derogations and the application of separate procurement rules. What's this about again? To avoid seeing how much money and money goes into the pockets of buddy, Fidesz-near economic interest groups or investors in a less transparent, easier to play out dance. And I think that this is not all right, Mr Secretary of State, because it is, in effect, very organically linked to the very serious restriction on the publicity of company data. Mr. Secretary. Please tell me what it would cost the Hungarian government, the Hungarian public finances, the cost of maintaining a complete, traceable and transparent company database system. Trust me, the Hungarian economy can handle it. But if you think the Hungarian economy can't handle it, then tell me, please! We are talking about the fact that it is also included in the explanatory statement of the law, the justification of the law, that some have abused this opportunity, which, I think, is nonsense, cannot be used publicly as an abuse of data. And let's just assume that my hobby, I don't go to races, I don't watch BL games, I have a hobby of looking at company data every night after the bear brushes his teeth. I like to look at these. How's this gonna get abusive? Yeah, well, it turns out from one moment to the next, through public data, how much commission was received by which Fidesz-near entrepreneur, so I understand; and if you add what is not in this law, but for example, it will be included in tomorrow's tax package, where the VAT amendment is on the agenda, which reduces the VAT on accommodation services from 18 to 5 percent. Then, strictly after Fidesz investors and Mr.Lőrinc practically took over the entire Hungarian economy of this sector by means of the lightning war tactics of World War II, because let's see and see that tourism is occupied today. Simply occupied by this sector, and if someone wants to go to the Lake Balaton next year for a long weekend and get the company data free of charge, it is worth checking out whose interest the resort on the shore of Lake Balaton is where they rest on the one hand, and on the other hand it is worth checking whether they will pay less in 2020 for the 3 days 2 nights service than they paid for, let's say, this year. And I'm sure they won't pay less. This VAT reduction is nothing more than providing an extra profit to Lőrinc Mészáros and his respected company, rather than reducing the VAT on basic foods. And yes, here I am arguing with my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, or anyone else who spoke about the fact that the VAT reduction on basic foods will not appear in the goods. It will appear, my fellow Members, because solvent demand will force VAT reductions to appear in the price. Why do I say that? I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because if we look at this year, we see that in the first four months of the year less than half as much rain has fallen in this country as the average for many years, and then within two weeks it has fallen three months or six months, I do not remember the exact amount, and then there has been a heat wave that this country has never seen together. Yes, there is global warming, along with all its consequences, and one of the consequences of this is that Hungarian agricultural performance will fall dramatically, which in turn causes price increases. This, however, means that all basic foods will cost a lot more than they cost a few years ago. But instead, you are trying to increase the profitability of tourism rather than reduce the VAT on basic foods. And yes, what is not yet included in this law is the rental program. We have proposed both the VAT reduction of basic foodstuffs and the rent-in scheme in the last year's budget and in the previous budgets, and we are proposing this year, too, because we know exactly, Mr. Secretary of State, that when a young couple decide to start a life together, they do not yet have the apartment, and they do not have the amount they need to own for credit... and they do not have the self-reliance, so they do not have the part that they can become creditworthy in the eyes of the banks. In such cases, a young couple live in a sublet, dear Secretary of State, and yes, what is needed is that they can save that part of themselves, that savings in their pockets, in their bank accounts, wherever, but if their salary is 40-70 percent of the housing costs that one of the lead speakers presented to me in such a plastic way, they will not succeed. And, Mr Secretary of State, there is a way to stop and reverse the increase in rent prices. It is not the good method that was tried in Berlin, where a rent ceiling was installed, because otherwise, the law-abiding Berliners played this law, concluded the contract at the maximum, and then the tenant had to pay a difference in svarc. The price of rents can be reversed by increasing supply on a supply-demand basis. Believe me, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to launch a transparent, well-functioning rental programme for everyone, these fees would turn back. [[19.50]] This means that you know it, and I know that we have the means, at the level of legislation, to stop this process, to reverse it, to make decisions for the benefit of society, but again it is not in the budget or in the law establishing the budget. It's amazing to watch. And I think that it is in this law establishing the budget that adult drug rehabilitation and drug treatment institutions can receive young people from the age of 12. Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary, look at me, please. [[Peter Banai turns to Benő Csárdi Antal.]] I have two children. Do you have a child? How old are they? Mine's 11 and 15. [[Lajos Rig: Can you let him in with the junkies?]] And I'm sorry, you think, and I don't want to talk about junkies right now, do you think they can be cured in an institution, scientifically, medically, for a 12-year-old and a 20-year-old, you sure they need the same kind of care? Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Because if this is included in the budget salad, why hasn't the proposal for the development of youth psychiatry been included, or the creation of a national drug rehabilitation centre as an effective tool for this purpose for the age group? Why isn't that in there? Why does it just say, "Eh, fuck it, let's get 'em in there, you little crackheads, go with the grown-ups." ? That's unfair, please. Just as it is unfair to amend the public procurement law in this way, to serve Hungarian tourism in this way, as it is unfair to have friends financed through the VAT Act, and it is unfair to have a rental program again in this budget. I think that I could talk very, very long about what is not in it and what is in it in this budget salad programme, in which, on the one hand, there are, indeed, some positive elements, as many have said, but unfortunately in a smaller number, especially in terms of their specific weight. But why isn't what's not in it, and where is it? And when will Hungarian society be worth the fact that not only the recipient upper middle class and the higher class living better than they will be the winner of a budget submitted by Fidesz-KDNP, but also the whole society, from the small-time to the rich? That's what we're looking forward to. Until we see this, we will not be able to support either a budget or a bill to establish it. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-17-242	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovak ethnic advocate Antal Paulik, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate them into Hungarian.
u2019-06-17-243	-akujem za slovo! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pán predseda, vážené panie poslankyne a hovorkyne, vážení pani poslanci a hovorcovia! Ako poverený hovorca vo svojom príhovore oboznám Vás so stanoviskom Výboru národnosti Ma.arska vo vzťahu k návrhu zákona číslo T/6361 o príprave ústredného rozpočtu Ma.arska na rok 2020. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Speaker, Mr. Secretary. As the invited rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I welcome the participants of the plenary session of the Parliament. In my speech, I would like to introduce you to the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary at T/6361. on the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget. By its very nature, I will deal only with points affecting nationalities, as this is the scope of the committee's powers. First of all, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary held a detailed debate on the bill at its meeting on 13 June 2019 in accordance with the house rules. The Committee did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill, but it intends to draft or submit an amendment to the draft. I will discuss this in detail later. T/6361. The draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2020 was justified by the submission of the Minister of Finance, so it was examined and discussed in detail by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. The draft, as Mr State Secretary said, contains, in several cases, a direct amendment to certain legislation on nationality rights. For example, point 27 provides for the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act XXVI of 2014 amending Act XXVI on the Rights of Nationalities and the Act on Election Procedure in point 42 changes to the law. In addition, in point 35, the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure. The amendment of the Act includes changes to the general minority self-government elections. The ethnic aspects of the listed provisions are direct and affect all municipalities of all nationalities. In point 15, the amendments to Act X of 2006 on cooperatives are more limited in the scope of the competence of national authorities. In addition to the above, there are two more areas where the bill concerns nationality rights among the transitional provisions. One of the entry into force provisions is the XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure. Law 329 § (1) amends, while at another law, the 188th paragraph is amended. Paragraph 1 provides for the deadline for the implementation of a provision of the nationality law adopted by an earlier amendment. I will now summarise the opinion of the Hungarian nationalities on each proposal in the order of the listed points concerning nationalities. 15th item of the bill on the agenda, with amendment of Act X of 2006 on cooperatives, i.e. 52 and 53. The provisions affect the competences of national authorities on a perpetuity basis. The proposed amendment includes the addition of a new chapter to the cooperative law. In the new Start Social Cooperative chapter, the author sets out in detail the conditions for the establishment of Start Social Cooperatives and the list of the mandatory founders of the new types of social cooperatives. The designation of new types of social cooperatives on the basis of public employment as an independent type of cooperative is justified by the fact that they are also a regulatoryly distinct group among social cooperatives. According to the new provisions, the common feature of these social cooperatives is that they are established and operated by the former public employment authority and, on the one hand, or by one or more persons with a public employment relationship with the municipality. In view of the fact that, under the name of the local government, we have to refer to the local governments and, together with them, the local governments and their legal associations, this provision concerns the responsibilities and powers of the national authorities. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary agrees with the amendment of the cooperative law to this effect. In point 27, the bill is 76. § 2 of the Act on Nationality fills the gap between an earlier amendment to the Nationality Act in 2017. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act 64 on the modification of the Act referred to in Article 64 of the Act. Paragraph 2 (2) (a) is worded as follows: I quote:,, The voter (a) in the election of the representatives of the local minority self-government in Article 51. In the case of paragraph 1 (a), a maximum of three shall be 51. In the case referred to in paragraph 1 (b), it shall vote for up to five municipal candidates. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the meantime, according to the current text of Section 51 (paragraph 1 (a) of the Act:,, The number of representatives of the municipal minority self-government (a) is three persons if the number of voters in the national minority register is less than one hundred on the day the election is set; and (b) four persons if the number of voters in the national minority register is more than one hundred on the day the election is announced. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[20.00]] The present bill is 76. § 2 of the Act removes this contradiction as follows: CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Law 51 In paragraph 1 (a) (b), the words "four" shall be replaced by "five." The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary welcomes this corrective amendment. The T/6361 in front of us. Bill No 109. §2 XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure Law 329 It amends paragraph 1 of §8 (1) of the Act. According to the original provision, the municipal, regional and national electoral ballot papers of the national minority are numbered by the local electoral committee and the regional and national list ballot papers of the national minorities whose municipal elections are not held in the settlement, by the regional electoral committee. A copy of the minutes issued on the result of the count of votes was to be sent by the local election office to the regional election office no later than 10 a.m. on the day following the vote. The amendment tabled now amends the text in the original legislative text until 10 a.m. on the day following the vote to the text no later than the second day after the vote. The original deadline has proved to be unfulfilled in practice in major cities or in the metropolitan districts where local governments of several nationalities have been elected. The amended deadline therefore gives the time limit which can now be met primarily to the metropolitan or metropolitan district ballot counting committees. On the basis of the grounds, the committee of nationality finally supports the amendment. The bill under discussion is 128. § 2 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities, CLXXIX, 2011 Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure Act XXVI of 2014 on the joint amendment of Act No. It provides for the entry into force or not entry into force of a provision of the Act. Under the proposed text, XXVI 2014 Act 5. Article 8 of the Act on the Election Procedure, XXXVI, 2013 Law 314 The provision laid down in paragraph 3 of Article 3 shall not enter into force. According to the original 2014 amendment, the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure. Act 314, which entered into force on the date of the establishment of minority self-government elections Pursuant to paragraph 3 of the Act, a electoral register shall be used in the general election of the representatives of the local government and in the interim elections held on the same day as the interim elections of local representatives and mayors covering the whole settlement and in the election of local representatives and mayors. The amendment is justified by the experience of the parliamentary elections, as we ourselves learned of a number of cases during the election when voters belonging to nationalities were not given the right ballot form in some electoral districts, so it either became impossible to cast their vote on the minority list or were forced to wait longer, while the local electoral office solved the situation. The justification of the amendment is not contested by the nationality committee and the proposed change is accepted. The bill is 188. §2 of the Act under discussion must be deleted from the central register within 15 days of the entry into force of the Act under discussion, the data relating to the registration of voters of non-Hungarian nationality as voters of nationality. 53 of the current text of the national minority law. § (1) links the exercise of both active and passive suffrage to Hungarian citizenship in relation to the general minority self-government elections. However, at the request of 31 December 2014, the non-Hungarian national person who declared his membership of the national minority had to be included in the national electoral register. The nationality law is 160. § 2 of the Act, prepared that non-Hungarian citizens will be removed from the national minority register, also laid down a transitional provision with the following text:. The mandate of non-Hungarian citizens who obtained a mandate prior to 1 January 2015 will not be terminated as a result of the cancellation of the national minority register due to the lack of Hungarian citizenship. However, the rules requiring the cancellation indicated above have not been adopted, so so far the registration of the nationality of non-Hungarian citizens entered into the national register before 1 January 2015 has not been deleted. This provision is intended to replace this omission. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary takes note of the proposed amendment. Dear House, T/6361 has been on the agenda for the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. I have listed the provisions concerning nationalities in Hungary contained in the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's central budget for 2020. I would now like to move on to what the members of the minority committee believe is missing from the draft that we are looking at. At this time last year, at the time of the hearing of the bill on which the 2019 budget was based, the Bulgarian spokesman Varga Simeon gave a detailed explanation of the fact that the national authorities of Hungarian ethnicities assessed the 2011 CXCV on public finances as a further increase in the burden of documentation and reporting on them. Laws 51 and 79 the amendment of §2 of the Act at that time. These provisions, by requiring national authorities to keep accounts at the Treasury, have essentially doubled the bureaucratic burden on the apparatus of national authorities in respect of the payment and use of budgetary aid. That is why, in his speech, he called for a reflection on the concept of budget support for national authorities. As a first step, it proposed that the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law No. 1 Paragraph 14 of the Act shall be amended as follows:. For the purposes of this Act: 14 budget support: from the central sub-sector of public finances, except for the financial funds of social security, without consideration, in cash grants, not including...., and here follows a longer list from (a) to (m). To this end, we proposed adding a point (n), which would say: support for the general functioning and the provision of tasks of national authorities and their institutions. Since then, this proposal has not been substantially discussed. Therefore, in view of the fact that the bill before Parliament now opens paragraph 14 of the paragraph of the Public Finance Act, which lists the exceptions, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, having discussed in detail the question of national minority self-governments, is expected to present at this negotiating stage a proposal amending the above mentioned content of the bill on the basis of the 2020 budget. The Committee of the Regions has adopted its Rules of Procedure, which are set out in its Rules of Procedure. To sum up, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is T/6361. It supports the amendments on the rights of nationalities in Hungary in the draft law on the foundation of Hungary's budget for 2020 and proposes the adoption of the bill to Parliament. At the same time, the Committee is expected to make an amendment to the legislation. -akujem Vám za posornost '! Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-17-244	Thank you very much, Mr Antal Paulik. Dear Parliament, No one has applied for a two-minute speech, so now we are going to hear further speeches from its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki Fidesz.
u2019-06-17-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Secretary of State, Lords! Dear House, There's a quote on patience in the stories of the Thousand Nights. It says that patience is the virtue of the powerful. Listening to this debate, I was thinking that patience is indeed a great virtue, because what has been said here, a competent professional must make a serious effort to listen to it with patience. 'Cause obviously you can be criticized and criticized. It is also the opposition's job to criticize the parliamentary debate on a bill that underpins such a budget, but I think it is completely pointless and unnecessary to say things, and sometimes even to go to personalism, I think. [[20.10]] So if we turn to a secretary of state and tell you that you have a child and what age you have, with a theatre move, then I could come to you with a theatre move, too, honourable Member, I have looked at Wikipedia, you have a secondary education, which is nothing wrong in itself, something you did after economics, but believe me, perhaps as a teacher I can tell you, according to your résumé, as a teacher and a practicing educator, I may say that I have worked as a teacher that what you object to is a very good thing, and I am very pleased that you will be included in the foundation proposal. The minimum age for the use of drug therapy and rehabilitation institutions is changed from 16 to 12 years of age, because in everyday life we, individual representatives, encounter a lot of cases here that we have led settlements, and even Minister of State, who is sitting in the velvet chair, he was also a local leader, we meet with a life situation, and unfortunately, this is typical of the fact that young people have different drugs that can be ordered online, and unfortunately, some institutions and certain family conditions do not provide a protective net for children, and sometimes I think this can be a solution. Of course, I do not think that an LMP Member would be an exclusionist, and he is asking why we are trying to help young people. Believe me, it's a good thing, because I don't think you should talk like that in a debate. Attila Mesterházy's activities have been particularly interesting to me lately, it is good that he is not involved in the interparty fights, we do not hear his television statements, he does not write an open letter, he tries to be correct, his speech was correct, but sometimes he gets carried away, he may also quit, and sometimes he says it inexactly, although he tries to be precise in the majority of cases. The fact that we should not compare debt settlement and the economic situation of the municipalities before and now is like comparing apples with pears, because fruit is fruit, I think, that's what he said. And then you said that you were indebted to the local governments, because they had put the settlements into bond issuance, and of course Congressman Varju confirmed that in your theatre style. Of course, there were municipalities who took out bonds, but in most cases the municipalities were not indebted to them because they took out bonds, but the result was that we had to pay the teacher's salary, the local government leaders, and you did not give us the necessary state resources at the time. It is always a prerequisite for politics to try to be credible. I, in my constituency, have 88 settlements, and 78 out of 88 were indebted to him because his local industrialisation tax income was simply zero forints, and he couldn't cover from the local income the amount required for the teacher's wage supplement, which required a teacher to receive a normal salary. Mr Mesterházy also said in his speech that once the Fidesz guys had a criticism. That's exactly what this is about. If we have looked at the rules here, said that life is changing, that we may have brought in a law, that we should change, and I understand this as a number of points of this bill, which is a criticism that stands against us. If I return to the bill on Hungary's economic stability, where it concerns debt settlement and municipal loans, namely municipal loans, it is precisely life that has demonstrated that there is no need to ask for permission in certain cases, the government's prior consent is not necessary, so this foundational legislation creates the technical rationalisation that many of us have indicated to individual municipal representatives that, if this is possible, we should try to change it to be smooth, of course, with appropriate guarantees. I think it would have been good for Congressman Varju to agree with Mr Korózs, because the T-shirt was there, but the live video was missing, and it is complete if Mr Varju had also videotaped himself, as was the case at the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets on the Bill of Budget, because on the whistle day you walked around, reporting on what was happening to the Members I was thinking about Mr Korózs, it might have been nice to agree with you, and you could have hired your former party while talking about it, mentioning legislation on home care, where the Democratic Coalition has never once voted on the amendments that we have proposed. And why I say this, that it would probably be good to be precise, because, in connection with the amendment of the law on the protection of children and guardianship administration, the proposal states the following, and precisely when it comes to the transfer of ecclesiastical institutions: according to the provisions currently in force, the municipality is transferring a child welfare institution to church reservations. Then I think it would be a Member's job to not be sure what a child welfare institution means to sit down and see what we mean by a child welfare institution. Children's welfare is not an educational institution, the cradle may be part of this concept, and this concept includes, for example, the opening of a house, the care of children. So children's welfare is more in the social sphere, and it is in the legislation that the church supplemental normative, if a local government decided to hand it over to church operations, would have to pay this surplus. This is also a real criticism that the government has recognised that we should not restrict local governments to their potential, if they are to hand them over to the church institution, but with this help and help to pay the difference, we have also given the smaller municipalities the opportunity. The poor have said this, it is customary, of course, to say this to an opposition representative, although it is about Ferenc Gyurcsány when he is poor, I think of the term caviar-socialist when he tries to make people believe that he is listening to them as a caviar-socialist. With regard to the village network, Mr Mesterházy, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, from the point of view of small settlements, my constituency is exactly such a great thing, the government recognized it. What does a villager do? In my area there are 88 settlements, a large part of the 88 settlements are small villages, and of course my area is ageing, and there is a possibility of village care. There is a possibility that older people may be taken to medical treatment, and it is possible to replace medicines for older people. I certainly don't think they should be classified as the richer seed. In my area, for example, 32 out of 88 settlements still live with the village care services, so this means that the 32 settlements have less than 600 inhabitants. If we lift it up to 800, it will affect an extra 20 settlements, and if we raise it to a thousand, it will be plus 9, so it will affect 61 settlements out of 88 settlements. So two thirds of my area will be affected by this one measure, which, I think, is absolutely the help of the people, the fallen people, who must be cared for by a caring state, who must be cared for by a leader, even a mayor. So it is difficult, it really takes a lot of patience to listen to this proposal, and it was so good, and I would like to congratulate you, if it could not be done here, because we have finally heard a professional voice, and it is precisely a critical comment that has been made about the electoral process that the election was very difficult, and many people have not been able to vote for the person they wanted, and this legislation gives us the opportunity. So I understand this salad law, this law establishing the budget, which really tries to respond to life situations. [[20.20]] And of course, I also acknowledge that the opposition's job is to tell them why they think this is wrong. I am only asking you to try to be credible and at least insisting on the text of the law and to use the terms precisely and to try to counter each other. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-246	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. I now give the floor to Congressman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi.
u2019-06-17-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said and everyone has said, there are 59 amendments to this legislation, the legislation on the foundation of the central budget for 2020. Many have made these points known, and I have also chosen the solution that I would like to highlight a few of these, to express criticism, because I think it is our job to make the 2020 budget even better, because, as we have heard, this is the budget for families, the budget for supporting families. I would build my speech on three main themes, others did the same. One is the municipalities. As I have just said, I would like to start with my fellow Member, the village care services. I think this is a positive measure, precisely because we need these village care services, because they do not in one case replace medicines within this institutionalized framework, and it is right that they grow from 600 to 800, and in two years it will grow to 1000. But with regard to the same measure, I would like to say that you have acknowledged that these measures are indeed necessary, because these small settlements are getting old. And I'd like to make a little criticism here, because apparently these settlements are old people, mostly alone. Why is that? Because there are no perspectives in these settlements, you have to admit that. So what can the government do? There should also be opportunities in these small settlements. And when there are more than 500 sack settlements in Hungary, we should think about what can be done to involve them in blood circulation. Because most of the time, I think that this 500 sack settlements are involved in this amendment to the bill, even though there is a city among them. So I think that this is a positive measure, and this was necessary. The institution of the Start Social Cooperative has also been mentioned. I would like to make an observation here that the municipalities have not in one place invested in the public employment relationship, and this activity. And at one of the ministerial hearings, we listened to the fact that the number of public workers decreased by 40,000, which is positive, because we hope that they could be placed on the primary labour market. However, when the municipality invested for millions of forints, and now there is no one to do it, no one to use these tools, it is very thoughtful that these investments were necessary. I trust that the institution of the Start Social Cooperative will be a solution to these problems and that the municipalities will be able to use the investments that have been made in recent years. There was also a talk about the free transfer of movable property on municipal matters, and here, as an example, the Minister of State mentioned the transfer of the diplomas of honor as a free transfer. That's very right, but I can't read out of the law that that's what this is all about, and I've got this little devil hiding in me that these movable assets... So here we will have the competence of the body of representatives to draw up both the threshold and the detailed rules, and then we will learn from the municipal decrees, but the elections are coming, yes, this is the 2020 budget, but then this is about what kind of movable property the municipality would like to pass on? Everything that isn't real estate is property, so we're talking about motor vehicles, right? Are we also talking about what might have been purchased through the public employment network? Does it apply to everything? This has not been revealed to me, and I believe that this should be clarified in this legislation, because all the movable property that is not real estate and these can be very valuable assets and, as I have said, also applies to the assets acquired in public employment investments. This would have been the first subject I wanted to mention with regard to the municipalities. Another topic is my comment on the development of tourism areas. It has also been mentioned, several of my fellow Members have mentioned it, but it was less so that what has been defined so far is that a hundred percent state-owned non-profit company will implement these key public tourism investments under the current rules, and this will be added to the fact that not only this 100% state-owned non-profit company will be able to carry out the operation, maintenance and exploitation of the establishment. But what I would like to draw attention to is that the Hungarian Tourism Agency Zrt. outsource this task to other companies and there is no non-profit. That's why it hit me so hard that it's not there to be a nonprofit for this other business company. However, I believe that if the protection of national wealth is important, then it should also be important here to be non-profit companies. Because we see that these tourist developments, yes, it is very important to have as many of them as possible, I know that this is the debate on the 2020 budget, but in 2019 it is a bit of anomaly, which is now taking place on the shore of Lake Balaton, because yes, we need the money, yes, it is very good to have investments on the beaches, but we have come to the point that here, alongside the workers who lay down the season and the concrete plant and the viacolor, the beach is laying down the towel, because this is how the improvements ran together, and so rigid rules have been laid down here for the launch of the applications, which cannot be called effective, nor is it important for tourism purposes, or rather I would say that it is a reasonable investment. So if there are not only non-profits but also other economic companies in this system, it is of great concern. I'd like to talk to you about two more minor amendments, small, a few lines, but still larger. One is the Company Publicity Act. My question is whether you did not think that you would change the name of this legislation. So it's corporate publicity when we close the gate and take away the opportunity to get to know everyone free of charge? And the fact that you think these are the commercial and abusive circumstances? Excuse me, from now on, the five to ten Members of this month, as Mr. Secretary of State said, will this amount be available to get to know data that is necessary for our work? And there may also be other actors, for whom it is very important that company disclosure and company data are made public. So I think they're blocking the functioning of the market because what's the point of being public? To let operators know about these companies. Hairy-skinned, yeah, the secrets of who, who, how... now you're gonna have to bug everyone? Or is it not available free of charge from here on out? So, this is something that, I believe, is in no way acceptable or even very harmful to Hungary's economic competitiveness and to the improvement of economic competitiveness, as you say, that this 2020 budget is, by the way, about economic protection and its recovery. One last sentence is to amend the legislation on the protection of classified information. I was saddened to note that it was not possible to carry out that IT investment by 2020, which was pushed to 2022. I'm asking you what you've been doing all this time, that you still haven't been able to build this system. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-17-248	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. Here comes Congressman Lajos Korózs. [[20.30]]
u2019-06-17-249	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I am all the more grateful because I speak for the first time, but my name has already been mentioned twice in the speeches. I'm a really patient man, I'll wait my turn even if it's my turn before midnight. I would like to point out some of the things that I say to you, I say to you, I am doing with the intention of improving, and I am not necessarily trying to dig around and make a knot, and I am not talking about everything, because there has been a lot of things said in the keynote speeches, which I agree with myself. Therefore, without the need for completeness, I would like to highlight a few things. A number of people mentioned the measures related to the village care service here. I note that the problems of small settlements are demonstrated by nothing better than what you have written here: in small settlements with 800-1000 people there are also disadvantages due to the lack of institutions or the difficulties of community transport, which are the task of village care services. That's the thing. My fellow Members, we are talking here about the fact that there are quite a lot of small villages in the very well-defined part of the country, in North-East Hungary, in Szabolcs, in Borsod, in the farmland in Bács-Kiskun County and in the Danube, in the region of Baranya, Zala, Vas county, where, under the influence of government measures, municipalities have been deprived of the services and opportunities they had to wait six years to realize that there is something wrong here. These small settlements do not have the opportunities they had before 2012. No debt management services, no regular social assistance, no equity public health care, no equity care fees, and I could tell you more. It's true, there's settlement support, they said it would solve everything, but it doesn't seem to solve it. Dear fellow Members, I have recently been in training where villagers are trained, otherwise the service is, in my opinion, one of the greatest things, all the more so because it is almost Hungaricum. I was at an event in 2006-2007 when the Member States of the European Union came here to study the Hungarian village care system. I myself was with some of my colleagues who introduced the training in Transylvania, in Torockó, Torockószentgyörgy, and in the valley of Homoród, and there was one of those unitarian clergymen when I spoke about this service, then he said that he was going to pray for my name, otherwise this happened if they could do it. We did it, they did it! Dear fellow Members, I have brought up this training because there were at least two dozen new villagers trained in the education where I myself attended as a guest, and I stress that this was recent. There was no village caretaker who would have said that he had a full-time GP in his settlement. So it is not only that these people are disadvantaged in Community transport, it is not only that these local authorities cannot provide services in the area of social services, for example, but also very, very limited, Madam State Secretary, the general medical system in these small settlements. It seems that today, I do not know exactly the most recent statistics, there are perhaps 344 permanently unfilled GP services in Hungary, but there is an equally large number of unfilled dental services in the country, and a significant proportion of the general paediatric services are not filled. So what we're talking about here is that these settlements, besides being without service, are getting old, beyond being depopulated, because I'm just saying to you, this is not an agenda here and not a topic, but Western Transdanubia is the most population-reduced settlement structure in Hungary today. Hang on, not North Hungary, not South Transdanubia, but Western Transdanubia, where the least children have been born in the last year, and there the population has fallen most in Western Hungary. In addition, colleagues have told me, but I know it myself: in Western Hungary, there is practically no social worker, because anyone who has or has such a profession works in Burgenland. There is no need to emigrate, commute, because 30-40 kilometers can be driven every day without further ado, and practically Grazig does not have a residential nursing home, there is no day care other than there is no gas station, there is no restaurant and there is no waiter who is not Hungarian, but the social sector is most affected by this problem. From now on, I think that the government has done nothing but recognise the problem and try to remedy it, that in these small settlements, not in the settlements of 500 and later 600, but also in settlements of less than 800 to 1000 people, this service must be established. The other thing I would like to mention is that this law allows children to be welcomed by adult-drug therapy and rehabilitation institutions at the age of 12 years. Mr. Secretary, don't do this. For God's sake, these children must not be allowed there. You mustn't let him in, because we know exactly what the problem is, and you know it. The drug prevention program that was operational, which was developed by the profession nearly ten years ago, was thrown away. They were talking nonsense. State Secretary Miklós Soltész was the advocate of stupidity, and here we had to listen to it many times. We know exactly what problems these kids, these settlements, these parents, these teachers have. Come to Kömlő, come to Heves and come to Borsod County. In the most disadvantaged settlements, it has now become a way of life among teenage children, children aged 12-13. Parents are completely unenforceable, teachers are unenforceable, local government is unenforceable, where they live with the masses of children. I see there's no connection between addiction and psychiatry. There is no link between the health care system, if any, and the social care system. There are communication problems, training problems, and lack of resources. From now on, we should think about how to create an integrated supply system, because it is a terrible situation. I welcome the fact that the aid for children in need will now be given in cash and not in vouchers, years ago, I said that it should be given in cash, and I said years ago that it should be doubled, and I also said that it should be indexed year after year, at least at the rate of inflation, because a significant part of the value of the customer has already been lost. I like this oncology foundation very much. I also think that Miklós Kásler has a pole. Look, the best thing they would do, at least for the government, is to read the report, if the budget and tax laws are adopted on 15 July, then Mr. Miklós Kásler will be relieved of the position of minister on 1 August. You will receive four to five months' severance pay, which will leave the budget until 1 January, the budget will take effect on 1 January, and you will be financed for your old age, so to speak, the cost of forgetting the activities of Miklós Kásler and, at the same time, the Secretary of State can be appointed as Minister on 1 August. I swear to you, in the first week of September, I will convene the People's Welfare Committee and we will listen to the candidate for minister, what kind of program he would like to implement. I hope you have in your program what Miklós Kásler didn't do. Besides, I'm sorry for him even for this fundraiser. This man doesn't deserve a penny. He promised to fix the basic care; he didn't do it. He promised to fix the emergency care; he didn't do it. He said there'd be a new public health program; he didn't do it. He said there'd be a new integrated oncology program or an anticancer program; he didn't even do that. There's nothing he didn't promise a year ago at his hearing, now more than a year ago, and nothing of it, but nothing has been done. Kasler has to go, Kasler can't stay at the head of health care, and of course, he can't stay at the head of all the other areas. [[20.40]] Fellow Members! I could say that almost until morning, because there's this social network. There has not been a year in the last four-year government cycle when they would not have touched the amendment of the cooperative law, but all we could see was that the bastards' playground, its sandbox, became the social cooperative. The concept was also undermined: when the cooperative movement has a renaissance, say, in Western Europe, in the developed Western Europe, social cooperative became synonymous with theft in Hungary. It became synonymous with stealing when I looked at Flórian Farkas, because the villains stole billions and crippled people who were supposed to use European and domestic resources to catch up and employ them, and so was my fellow Member of the county of Békés, who had to suspend his immunity here in Parliament: György Simonka. These people are common criminals, my fellow Members. Let's just record this for posterity and the record. And these people in this Parliament vote for two-thirds of the laws, with their vote this Parliament adopts two-thirds of the law. These people should be in jail! I don't want to advance the verdict, but let's just say we start with five years automatically, and then they're just gonna talk about how much more they can get. But no, they're renaming them, I don't know how certain they are. That the other bastard will be decorated! Unfortunately, that's the kind of world we live in this country, but it won't always be that way, I think. By the way, I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's detailed answer to my questions or to my problems. I think it wasn't a lecturer, it was a comment that really focused on the problems. I will be honoured to hear your reply.
u2019-06-17-250	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2019-06-17-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll allow me, I'd rather return to the profession; not in that way, but now in this comment, so to speak. We have a legislative law that everyone probably knows. The government must be aware: the 2010 CXXX. Law initiated by this government in the Parliament at the time. Why am I calling this place of law? I call you here because the legislation on which the budget is based and the proposal does not in any way comply with the legislative law. To be honest, I am extremely surprised by Mr Secretary of State, who, in my presence in the last year, has expressed countless times that professionalism is above all for him. I can believe that this is your ambition, but I certainly would not have undertaken to present such a proposal, with only 10 out of 59 pieces of legislation and 191 sections of the proposal having to do with the budget or with a provision that must prevent the vote on the budget law. This legislation in this form violates the legislative act 2. Paragraph 4, paragraph 3. § 16 and Art. § 1. What are they about? First of all, it is the preamble to the legislative law, in particular, that it must serve the regulatory objectives effectively on the basis of the rule of law, and then it is about complying with the professional requirements of legislation, and it also states that similar or similar living conditions must be regulated in a similar way, preferably in the same legislation; and finally, Article 16. § 2 says that it is for the preparatory bodies to examine the technical content of the legislation and to assess its preliminary impact. Then there's the 17th. Paragraph 1 of the Act, where it concerns the fact that, following a preliminary impact assessment, the Government must be referred to the Government by the person who has prepared this legislation, the Ministry of Finance, as regards the socio-economic and social effects that these new rules can have. The rapporteur did not report this, so I think that it is most likely that nothing of the sort has happened. I would also be surprised if the Ministry of Finance had the opportunity to carry out such an impact assessment and report it to the government, given that I do not think that the task of this portfolio is, for example, to give examples of employment-enhancing legislation, notary law, civil servants law, law on court enforcement, child protection law, compulsory health insurance law, health law, and I could list it further. I have counted, ladies and gentlemen, I have found a total of 12 pieces of legislation that I have tried to treat with goodwill, and I have said that there is a sentence in it that may have something to do with how much money the budget will have to spend in the given area in 2020. But that was just a benevolent statement. The rest has nothing to do with the foundation of the budget. The general justification for this legislation is that the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 22. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Act on the Central Budget, the Government shall draw up a bill containing the legislative amendments necessary for the establishment of the bill on the Central Budget, which it shall submit to Parliament in such a way that it enters into force at least at the same time as the law on the Central Budget. The bill contains the legislative amendments necessary to establish the basis of the bill on the central budget in order to fulfil this government's obligation. So they didn't even do it, my fellow Members, because they didn't even do it in the title to at least describe how many legislative proposals we didn't want to present here, and besides, we don't really want social consultation, because otherwise we don't want an impact assessment. But now we're bringing you a 191-section bill to amend 59 laws, and here you are, here, looking into what we've smuggled in again, which we didn't want transparently, publicly to the public, because that's what this proposal is about. All the way to 166. I had to get to §8 when I finally found a proposal that could really have something to do with the foundation of the budget, so I didn't succeed. In the last hour, I am sorry that my fellow Member Tilki is not here to talk about how much patience it takes government representatives to listen to the criticisms of opposition representatives. What I can say is that it is imperative for opposition representatives to be extremely patient in order to listen to that constant self-reinforced propaganda and continuous Gyurcsányányányás in this House. Since the 26th of May 2019, nothing else has been going on in the pro-government ranks than the promotion of Ferenc Gyurcsány in order to create as much social sympathy as possible, thus enabling Fidesz to scare its own voters. This is a nasty game for which Parliament's meeting room is used, and they use opposition representatives who always try to work here on a professional basis, fairly, from the point of view of representing society. I believe that Fidesz is the boogeyman of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and he has to deal with it, but please, when we were constantly dealing with serious legislative proposals today, it was always somehow his last thought about those lines: but otherwise Gyurcsány. It's a good thing you're having a merry Christmas! It hasn't been said today. So I would just like to say that we should be at least as patient as we should be listening to the self-reinforced praises which are constantly mantras by the Fidesz MEPs. My fellow Member from Harghita, who is also sorry that he is not here, said that the economic policy of the Orbán government has so far proved that they have been able to defend all budgetary laws, that each number has been fulfilled, and that it has always turned out that despite criticism of the fiscal law, they have been successful. [[20.50]] Well, here's the thing. 1. Salvation from other people's money in Hungary is a general sport. It says in English, "other people" and "money." So with someone else's money, it's very easy. What's someone else's money? Firstly, 3 000 billion of the private pension fund, because it came in handy in 2010 so that it could fill the budget deficit and demonstrate that it could bring the general government deficit below the level of the EU regulation. Then it was very easy to introduce 27 percent VAT. If any other government had done this, their representatives might be hanging on a lamp iron by now. But with a two-thirds mandate, a great social recovery, that we got rid of the Gyurcsány government, he could even do that. He hasn't reduced it in nine years. It makes the VAT cuts necessary to serve the economic activity of the various oligarchs, such as now in order to serve the economic territory of Lőrinc Mészáros, but it was not very difficult to turn this money into an economic policy. And at that time, I did not say anything about it, and every time, Mr. Secretary of State, he refuses to say why I am talking about sovereign debt, because the GDP ratio is thus so that that 31 thousand billion is to be paid to our children. And put me in front of them in 15-20 years, when there will no longer be such an economic economy, because everyone knows, and Mr. Secretary of State knows best in this Chamber what recession is to come! And I didn't tell you then that foreign companies that add up most of GDP use their traditional technologies here, while Asia in the West and East is passing by, rushing so fast that we can't even see it. In the West and the East, there is a high technological development and development that is not brought here, only the assembly plants have been brought here, and they keep it. What is sold here as technological development is obsolete where it comes from. So once these companies stop really being willing to continue their business in this country, they may be able to guarantee their survival. But at the moment that these companies are going to close down, and you have never been willing to help small family businesses instead of filling multinationals and their oligarchs with their support for job creation, rather than building on family farms, then explain how you will be able to maintain GDP so high, possibly increase GDP and improve public debt-to-GDP ratio according to Maastricht regulations. So I would like to say with great respect that it is unacceptable that a law on the basis of which a budget is based is being tabled in order to smuggle a lot of new legislation that effectively conceals negative rules from society. Yes, you are right, my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z., and one or two other fellow Members, there are three or four rules that are favourable to citizens, but they do forget, for example, to talk about the fact that the basic fee for the order for payment procedure is being increased. And what is quite amazing, and I very much hope that Mr Secretary of State will not continue the incompetence that only twenty-one out of the 59 laws have been introduced. The rest is probably not because, on the one hand, it is not his area of expertise, I understand that, and on the other hand, it is not certain that he would have wanted to talk about what is again the favourable treatment of his own community, the head of government and his community, and the benefits that no one would like to talk about. All I would like to ask you with great respect is that if such legislation is to be submitted, at least it should be professionally justified. If you think this is how it's supposed to be done, then let's say that we do this and don't play the top of professionalism. And when the opposition is criticized, it takes patience, and they don't really understand why we criticize things, or why we contradict you on matters: because we have reason to contradict you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-252	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2019-06-17-253	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Patience seems to have run out because our fellow Member Attila Tilki has left, and he cannot listen to the comments. I just wanted to agree that we, too, need great patience to listen to their comments sometimes. But aside from the joke, I wanted to fix a thing or two that he said, and maybe he came up in other comments in a slightly misunderstood way, or something I might miss. My colleague, Lajos Korózs, has already spoken about the village ministry. I have seen this problem in the sense that now there are similar problems in villages with a higher population than in the case of smaller settlements, so while the initiative is welcome, this change points to a problem. But I think our fellow Member Korózs has already explained this in detail, so I wouldn't waste any time. Another important issue is drug use among young people. This is indeed a process, since it has already been seen that, unfortunately, young people are coming into contact with some form of drugs at an increasingly younger age. Therefore, it is vital to reduce the age limit that allows a person to enter such an institution. But I don't think it's the way the current bill does. The government has a national anti-drug strategy, and in this context, within the framework of a policy programme defined by the government for 2017-18, there is a major priority that is to improve access. That is not what I would call the development of access, not in any way the introduction of 12-year-olds into adults, no matter how well-meaning the government is. Rather, it is the need to meet specific needs and circumstances here. Just as we could go on with prevention or many other harm reduction. I wouldn't get any more into that right now. The fourth point I wanted to bring up is the municipal debt, as Attila Tilki said in connection with the bond issue. I am willing to accept that, in 78 of his 88 settlements, debt was accumulated in many government measures, but I still do not see the problem solved during the Fidesz government. Because if I remember correctly, the government of Pécs was able to collect billions of dollars of debt without any particular help. In Hungarian, I see that the admission of this is currently taking place in Pécs, as they will not start the mayor who is running the city now. Mayor Zsolt Páva has been thanked for his participation, and there is a rumor that he may or may not already have his successor in respect of a sportsman, and Zsolt Páva, in recognition of his merits, I hear rumors that he may be an ambassador somewhere. I hope you will create a new embassy for him out of hundreds of millions of forints, just as Minister Kasler will have to pay half a billion. Maybe the mayor of Pécs deserves half a billion as a candidate for an excellent ambassadorship somewhere in the world. I've done this before, which is why I'm bringing this here, in terms of New Zealand. In Hungarian, the municipality of Pécs also had its own right to be indebted, and there were also municipalities that did not spend the income from the issuance of bonds. We base it on this, if I understand correctly, with László Varju, that that is why there was a very strong policy on your initiative at the time. The last thing I'd like to say is that it's more of a clarification, but it's a little more than that. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned in his expo, in his introductory presentation, that this corporate database, which is a public, free database and searchable, is being restricted to five to six/month searches. I didn't understand exactly how this could be abused. I'm sure you can shed some light on the specific, precise situation here. So how do you make money on data collected from a public and free database? 'Cause if you can, just let me know, 'cause I'd like to try this one. Who's the lunatic who pays for what he can do in public anyway? Unless you add some extra service to collect these things. [[Péter Cseresnyés: That wasn't it!]] Maybe he's putting some kind of human resource into it, sort it out, or, I don't know, something he's doing with it. [[21.00]] Because if you can do this, I think we should all go into it, but regardless, there may be such an opportunity, because you can actually find your bird in every business idea; so in Hungarian, how to make money out of a public database by asking for 200-300-400 data. The other thing is, if we begin to limit public data, then a lot of ideas will inevitably come up in your mind, so the alarm will ring in the mind of an opposition representative. [[There's a cell phone ringing.]] as the phone of Lajos Korózs, why this restriction should be made, unless it is because of what my fellow Member Csárdi spoke about to complicate access to data which is currently publicly available. It would not be the first time, by the way, that they would strive to make this difficult in some form. On many occasions, I encounter a relatively large number of written questions, I make a motion in this House that I get answers when they refer to why I don't go up to kormany.hu, I click on I don't know what, and then there's the data. There are two cases: I click on it and there is nothing given, or the second is that I click on it, and nothing works. There may be another third: I will click on it, and something else will come in, or the amount of data with which the problem is that one cannot process it because it is there, say, the three million data that a Member of Parliament cannot do anything about. In the meantime, you're gonna shake the congressman off why this poor bastard doesn't understand that these data are already on the Internet. So in Hungarian: there are many ways to make the public or the interested person impossible in this respect. It seems to me that this could be a suitable tool to narrow down the scope of the public and thus also transparency on these issues. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-17-254	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. State Secretary Ildikó Horváth would like to speak outside the line.
u2019-06-17-255	Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Congresswoman Wives, Congressman Lords! Thank you very much for the floor. I asked for the floor because a number of people made various assumptions and assumptions about the future of Minister Miklós Kásler. Let me reflect on the cause and importance of the Central and Eastern European Academy of Oncology. You may not perceive it as anything other than a toy, or you have some kind of vision of it which is quite different than ours, but let me share that last week, Wednesday, ministers from twenty countries, leaders and high-level representatives of the profession, have been present in politics, and you have agreed that this initiative is also an extremely important stage in the international arena of the oncological operation in which you receive support from Hungary, the National Institute of Oncology and the Hungarian political life that together we can do more, better, both in the scientific part and in the field of educational activities. This initiative has received such serious international feedback from those who are already coming from neighbouring countries about the processes that can support it, which, we believe, is unprecedented not only in the field of Hungarian medicine, but also in terms of Hungarian politics, the kind of regional cooperation is a very strong, important step forward in our region where this is seriously needed. I reject the allegations that no program has been completed. National health programmes have been completed, this has been discussed with a broad professional audience, including the national anticancer programme, the national public health programme has been completed, we are working with it, and we are working on taking measures that are forward in this spirit. I think, and I believe that this requires not only the Minister's standing, but also his strategic thinking, as he perceives what changes are worth starting, and the Central and Eastern European Academy is one of the best examples in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-256	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth. The next speaker is Congressman László Keresztes Lóránt.
u2019-06-17-257	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I felt that my fellow Members would resolve a little after Mr Attila Tilki got tired and left. I think we can say that there has been quite a constructive and good-quality debate until Mr Tilki spoke. This was the first comment when one third of the time of the comment was specifically personal, everyone before him, I feel that he has made professional and legitimate critical remarks. I would like to comment briefly on the subject of the salad law, to which perhaps most of my fellow Members, this is a question of the operation of local governments and the indebtedness of local governments. I, too, am sorry that Congressman Harghitai has left, and he has paid most attention to it. Congressman Harghitai, as the lead speaker of the KDNP, has made a statement that the government's economic policy is not built on air castles. I think that it would have interesting consequences if we went into this debate and, let us say, discussed what you have already referred to, Mrs Congresswoman, how economic growth has come together, how and how effectively the government has used EU development resources in the past, or how the structure of the Hungarian economy has been distorted by the historical corruption, how the wage crisis and, as a result, the emigration and the huge shortage of professionals we are facing. Returning to what Mr Harghitai specifically referred to and so many others, the question of the indebtedness of the municipalities. I think we can clearly say that this is a system problem. I would argue here with Congressmen Varju and Mesterházy. All the criticisms expressed about the government are legitimate and I agree, but it must be said that since the regime change, funding of local governments has been a continuing problem, and this has been the case during your governance. Congressman Harghitai said that the government freed the municipalities from a thousand billion-dollar debt, but this is wrong. The state has actually taken a measure, the state has assumed this particular municipal debt, practically the Hungarian taxpayers, the government debt has become government debt. It wasn't the government's heroic act. But it can be concluded that for nine years now, Fidesz has been ruling again, and they have not been able to do anything about the indebtedness of the municipalities. Pécs, he's exhausted. Yes, Congressman Harghitai, Baranyai, I think he should know that Pécs is one of the outstanding examples. By the way, for the sake of order, let me say that the Socialist period handed over government in Pécs with a debt of 44 billion, so it was necessary to free Pécs from 44 billion, but there was indeed an interim mayor election in Pécs ten years ago, and in ten years Pécs generated about HUF 20 billion in debt, if we consider the debt of municipal companies. So we can say that we are facing a system problem that is independent of governments. Unfortunately, if we look at the draft budget for next year, we can see that this system problem cannot be dealt with by the government, and it does not wish to face it. And as I referred to in my comments before the agenda, the problem is that the municipalities are now in a position that the resources they receive from the central budget are not sufficient to carry out the most important mandatory tasks. And here it must be true to Congressman Tilki, he said that there are indeed many municipalities that are indebted to the performance of their most important mandatory tasks, performed tasks that need to be carried out in respect of the most important public services, and there are a lot of municipalities where there is no meaningful business tax revenue, so these municipalities were forced to be indebted. So the system problem should be dealt with. And if we are talking about the fact that there will be no resources in the budget to carry out the mandatory tasks and there will not be any next year, then we can see that there is also no way to solve the tasks, problems and challenges that we are facing now. There should be absolutely local action by local authorities in terms of climate protection and the resolution of extreme weather impacts. Let us say, for example, we have seen a lot of extreme events recently, lightning floods, huge rainstorms, and even large cities have no chance of solving the problem of rainwater drainage on their own, without various sources of development. There is no adequate source for the development of the local economy. There is no source and predictable funding of municipalities for the provision of key public services. We can think of community transport, as well as inter-local transport, and we can see the state of state transport companies that are regionally distributed. Also due to a lack of resources, there was no update of the fleet. But it is necessary to highlight specifically the cities with their own municipal-owned transport company. In a very extreme way, by way of such ex post tenders, it is possible to reduce losses in some way. Thus, when my fellow government representatives are very rightly talking about not restricting local government, restricting the functioning of local governments, the solution is to give the municipalities the right funding, and then what Mr Harghitai also said could be realized, that if there are already such air bubbles, air castles in the budget, at least the municipalities, especially when we are preparing for municipal elections, should not have to build their own budget on air castles next year, which is why this problem needs to be solved. Thank you very much. [[21.10]]
u2019-06-17-258	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. They left three and a half minutes for Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik. [[Intruder from the pro-government benches: Push, Louis!]]
u2019-06-17-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It will be very difficult in three and a half minutes, especially if we want to get back to the business and leave the political lounge. I'm glad you're here, Secretary of State, trying to protect your boss. I would also like to remind the secretary of state, although you know that this weekend there was a symposium of the Hungarian Oncology Society, where an oncologist authority said that we need to re-learn the oncological foundations, the basics of treatment, everything. But this foundation, which you're about to pass through the salad law, is not for that purpose. It was said there, because in recent weeks, there has been a similar discussion that they need to re-learn the entire treatment and medication in the United States of America. Well, 500 million forints can be given to these oncologist doctors to go to the United States of America and learn the new technology, which is not about giving medicine to the disease, but about finding the error in the cancer gene and giving the medicine to it. It's a new procedure. Or if we want to raise the oncology centers to the same level as in the United States of America, and not to sit in the basement with the patient waiting for the cytostatics. The other amendment, to which I would like to add a few thoughts, is something that I have spent 22 years in health care, I have not experienced. Madam Secretary, do you agree that so far, the age from which an addictological diversion or rehabilitation could be accepted into such an institution and tried to treat it was 16 years old, and now 12? Would you let a 12-year-old kid in there with a clear heart and conscience where 18, 24, 28-year-old drug users are? What does that child see? How do you get that child out of the world of drugs? It's a huge problem, and it's nothing else if everyone in this room thinks about just one thing, and it's self-acknowledgment. We admit that specialists in child addiction are missing from Hungary. What's the next step? After all, pediatricians say to treat and see the child as a pediatrician. Is it possible that in 2020 we will be meeting with an amendment to the law that we will cease child care and put it at maximum professional level? Is that possible? I mean, there's a shortage of them, too. And give the children to the general practitioners who also lack them? I don't think it's a good way to go, especially on these two issues. The HUF 500 million can be supported, but not through the foundation. Give the professors of oncology the opportunity to use their foreign studies here in Hungary for the benefit of Hungarian patients, and not to manage a foundation that will divide them according to a portfolio among some doctors. I'd support that. I can't personally support the addiction care from 16 to 12 years, but I think if you look deep into her soul, not even yourself. Thank you for listening.
u2019-06-17-260	Thank you very much, Congressman Rig. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2019-06-17-261	Thank you very much. Mr President, I've been worried about Secretary of State because we've been scolding your boss so much. You have to push the button faster so you don't have a problem with it later in the ministry. But if in 2020 Mr. Kasler will be the head of this foundation, then come in and apologize to us, okay? We have a little more experience in this area, but it's not your fault. I would very much support the establishment of such a foundation abroad. I get that they come from 20 countries and tell me that it's a good thing you guys spend so much money on it, and you can come here for a conference. That's very good. Perhaps there is only one better thing: if some other country spends 500 million on this, and we go there for a conference. The other thing is, you were telling us to do more. Let's do more, but not by setting up another committee, that's not a good solution. Maybe you know this joke that there's a big problem, so let's make another committee quick. Rather, the direction that my fellow Member, Mr Rig, said would be better given to universities for training or further training. I'm sure he'd be more useful than a new conference tourism organization. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-17-262	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP.
u2019-06-17-263	Thank you very much for the floor. I, too, would like to respond to the words of Attila Tilki, in a gentlemanly manner, not at the end of the story. The fact is, although my fellow Member Tilki is no longer here, the question is not whether there is a drug problem in his constituency or even in mine. My constituency has four districts in whole or in part, including the VIII. and IX. district, too. There's a drug problem, and if anyone wants to know a little bit more about it from the government side, they don't have to go far, ask the leader of the group, Máté Kocsis the VIII. He was the mayor of the district. But if you talk to him, why don't you ask him why he disabled the needle exchange program? But I don't want to get into this right now. So what I wanted most to see in this proposal is where at least the school psychologist appears at the vision level. Or an optimized drug rehabilitation or drug prevention centre for juveniles. But I didn't see anything like that, all I saw was a 12-year-old kid being sent to adult junkies, and that's what my question was about, because whoever had a 12-year-old had a 12-year-old kid knows exactly that they can't be sent there for rehabilitation purposes. I will just keep it silent at the end, because time is running out, because I find it infinitely sad that my fellow Member Tilki found this problematic in my comment, and not that Lőrinc Mészáros gained money through the Public Procurement Act and earned three hundred and a few billion forints in nine years. He did not resent that I was talking about economic interest groups close to Fidesz occupying virtually all of the tourism, the entire shore of Lake Balaton, operating this for their own pleasure, and this budget even serves them. This is what my fellow Member Tilki should have been outraged about, but he is not upset about this because he knows that this is true. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-06-17-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask you, Honourable Parliament, that someone would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] State Secretary Péter Benő Banai indicates that he is. You have the floor.
u2019-06-17-265	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I should like to thank you for your support for the proposed legislation. I am positive that not only the Fidesz and KDNP and the national minority advocate have acknowledged that there are many positive elements in the proposal submitted, but that several proposals from the opposition have also been considered eligible. To mention this, let me first make two general comments. Several speakers said that the budget, the tax laws and the bill establishing the budget reflect a set of values, a worldview. No question, it's true. I believe that we want to build a country in which the work and the family are surrounded by primacy. In this respect, there has always been a conflict and conflict between government representatives and the opposition in terms of where the government can apply tax relief in one area. Because of work and the primaryity of the family, the government said that taxes on income should be reduced. The primacy of these two issues of value, work and family is reflected in the fact that when a family raises a child, a person has to pay less taxes than personal income tax. [[21.20]] In this respect, we therefore follow the philosophy of collecting the revenue needed to carry out public expenditure, not primarily from income taxes, but from turnover taxes. This is why we see a continuous reduction in labour taxes and a large majority of revenue in traffic-type taxes and a reduction in VAT rates in some places. Criticism was also expressed in relation to the key reduction of the VAT on tourism. I have to say here that as part of the economic protection action plan, we hope that this VAT reduction will also result in a reduction in the price of domestic services, and that more and more people will choose hotels and accommodations in Hungary instead of spending time abroad, thus strengthening economic growth. There has also been criticism of the rent-apartment programme, and there is once again a difference of values between government and opposition factions. We believe that young people should be given primary ownership. Those in the family, those who think in children, today have much more resources. In this respect, with government help, young people can own their own property, instead of spending their resources on leases for many years, they would make an expense after which their own property will not be available. The second general observation, which was made by Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, concerned the legality of the bill on which the budget was based. We see that the bill submitted is in line with the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court and the rules in force. That is without doubt a fact, and in my first comment, I said that the proposal submitted contains proposals which are directly or indirectly linked to the implementation of the budget itself. But you must see that the Finance Act is the law that affects the widest range of economic and social relations. Therefore, there are also a wide range of proposals relating to the budget, I stress, directly and indirectly. I accept, of course, that this relationship is not direct, but indirect, in some of the motions tabled. Then allow me to respond to some of the issues that have been mentioned repeatedly, which are specifically included in the proposal for a basic law submitted. One issue was the issue of municipal freedom. On the one hand, it can be said factually that the state has taken over a debt of HUF 1300 billion from local authorities and municipalities with county rights. In this respect, their margin of manoeuvre has undoubtedly changed significantly. In addition, I believe that there has been a significant change in the lives of local authorities by transforming the funding system and transforming the tasks. Mr Lóránt Keresztes said that the management of municipalities remains a major problem. I must draw the attention of the honourable Member or Members of Parliament to the fact that the figures do not support this. So if we look at the local government reports, we look at the balance that the local authorities have closed in recent years, or we look at how popular the sovereign debt issued to them is, we look at the deposit stock of the municipalities today, thank God, we can say that there is a difference between heaven and earth. I report that in recent years, the municipalities have closed the last few years with a positive balance. There is no doubt that there is a difference between the municipality and the municipality. For this reason, the proposed budget laws have focused on helping municipalities which, apart from their own failure, lack sufficient resources to carry out public tasks. I must also say here that, thanks to God, the number of these municipalities is falling significantly, because of the economic growth we have seen in recent years and which is significantly above the European Union average, local authorities are also benefiting from it, since the majority of the local government's own revenue is local industrialisation tax revenue. As far as municipal freedom is concerned, I repeat, in addition to the fact that, in my view, freedom of a financial nature is one of the fundamental elements of freedom, I believe that the rules that we have just tabled provide the necessary freedom for the municipalities. Part of this freedom is that, like municipalities, small-scale borrowing can take place in local government-owned companies without government authorisation. Part of this freedom is that if a municipality has a loan permit, it will only restructure the borrowing, then it can do so without the procedure to date. In response to Mrs Pototacska's question, allow me to quote the bill submitted. Congresswoman asked how municipal property can be transferred. The text of the bill states that up to the threshold laid down in the municipal decree, the local government may decide to transfer the ownership of the property of the local government free of charge. The free transfer of assets should not jeopardise the performance of municipal tasks. These are therefore two essential criteria when the government proposes to amend the regulation. 1. Mandatory tasks must be carried out. 2. In order to reduce administration, for example, when handing over a title of decorative citizen, the local government decrees the threshold where the vote of the body of representatives is not required to receive a book, a vase or any other object. But of course, if the municipality decides to retain this right, then the municipality has the right to do so. So I think that the proposal tabled does not restrict freedom in this respect either. There is one thing where this arises that it is worth laying down additional rules on the management of local governments, either so that some may consider this a restriction on freedom. Allow me to go back to the idea that it is in all our interests that there should never again be such a level of debt in respect of the State or in respect of the municipalities which are part of the State. The current rule concerns the need for a local government to carry out a zero farm for operational purposes. A loan may be granted for development purposes if its financial indicator permits it. This provision is amended by the amendment of the Economic Stability Act before the Honourable Parliament, which is a taxative of determining in which cases the government may refuse the request of the local government. The proposal submitted is 83. It is worth examining literally what the conditions are for a government licence: the capacity to carry out the municipal task must be created; the loan that the municipality is able to carry out; and the investment that has been created can continue to be maintained. This latter condition is now included in the bill. I believe that it is in the interests of all of us to ensure that the management of local government in a responsible manner will prevail in the future in terms of borrowing. Company information. Let me say, first of all, what I said at the beginning of the debate. The aim of the proposal submitted is to ensure that the free company information can only be used for information purposes, which could happen 5-10 times a month. However, personal access to company data and company files will remain free of charge at company courts and the Company Information Service. Allow me to add two things. The first one. I have in my hand the European Union legislation, a directive, which sets out what information should be provided. This is the EU's 2017/1132 Directive. In particular, Article 19 describes the information to be provided. The government is in full compliance with this and intends to continue to meet it in the future. The other thing, however, is why this change will take place. Because we have the data in our hands, which clearly shows that there are companies that are making a deal with this activity, which are asking for data to the extent and in the amount of resources that we are financing from taxpayers' money, which, I think, is not certain that it will be permissible in the future. [[21.30]] Several companies build databases from these free-of-charge information, company data and further sell them. Here are the data, there are companies who request thousands of information about hundreds of email addresses that have been exchanged each day. So companies who download hundreds of company extracts per day are supposed to do it for their own business interests. They shall obtain and pass on this information in a free, publicly funded manner. That's what the government wants to stop. As far as the village care system is concerned, I believe that this is the point in the proposed bill, I trust, in addition to many other points, in which there is a consensus that it is appropriate to extend the village care system. I would like to say that this motion not only increases the number of people in which the village care system is available, but also proposes to increase specific funding in the draft budget law that will be discussed soon. Why is that necessary? Yes, because, as Mr Korózs said, in small settlements there is a depopulation, in many small settlements there are demographic processes that we know, and many thank God for the expansion of employment elsewhere. The word "thank you" refers to the expanding job opportunity, not to the emptying of many small facilities. What can the government do to respond to this problem? First of all, we have to deal with depopulation. So there is no question how important it is from this aspect to ensure that the family protection action plan is successful, that other measures aimed at the birth of children are successful, and that there can be a healthier coral in small settlements. In addition, let us not forget that the government has launched a program of the Hungarian village, which allows the creation of homes to be carried out from much larger sources than before, allows development of local interest to be financed and allows the road network to improve. For this purpose, after 2019 the government also allocates significant resources to the continuation of the Hungarian village programme in the draft budget law for 2020. As far as the drug problem is concerned, allow me to read out the justification for the bill submitted. I think that we are talking about a response to an unfortunate negative process when we are talking about the need to deliver from 16 years among young people to 12 years of age the care that seeks to remedy the addiction of young people to drugs. It is possible to argue about what is a good solution to the problem, but I think to criticise the government's reaction to the fact that unfortunately, there are young people under 16 who are victims of designer drugs, and to propose this, to criticise this, in this, I will tell you frankly, with some surprise I have heard the comments. Another thing is that, of course, the institutions choose different therapies, although I am not a professional, but I think they choose different therapies between a 13-year-old young person and a 60-year-old drug addict. Now, please, the bill submitted is the main issue, the implementation of the measure does not have to be in the law. With all due respect, I ask the Parliament to see this intention. I'm not even talking about the fact that it's probably best if young people don't do drugs. When are they not gonna do drugs? If there is a family that has a perspective, where there is a job opportunity, where incomes are growing, where young people are being cared for, there is a commitment not only at home, but also young people who grow up in a medium where nursery care is provided from childhood, preschool care and school care are provided from a small age. So I would ask you to consider this broader aspect when deciding on the proposal. Finally, allow me to respond to the repeatedly mentioned home care issue. Member László Varju highlighted this and recalled the discussions, discussions and debates that took place a year ago. I can say the same thing as I did a year ago: the government does devote resources to improving the life situation of people doing home care. It is, of course, always possible to argue whether it is appropriate to devote greater resources to this purpose, and I consider this to be a good debate, but please do not dissuade it from the government and from the Parliament's pro-government fractions, that they have also tried to devote resources to this problem while maintaining the stability of the budget. Let me tell you that, on the one hand, the children's home care fee was introduced, which provides children with a monthly allowance of HUF 100,000. In addition, this supply will continue to increase by reaching the minimum wage by 2022, the budget bill for 2020 estimates that the amount of this supply will increase by 24 percent to nearly HUF 124 thousand. Congressman said that we should not forget the other people who received home care fees. I have to report that the government has thought of them. First of all, I have to recall that from 1 January 2014 the key home care fee was introduced, with an 80% higher amount than the basic care. The premium, which is 50 percent higher than the fund, rose by 15 percent. From 1 January 2017, there was a 5% general increase in these categories, from 1 January 2018 a 5% increase was made again and from January 2019 a 15% increase was made. If you consider it important to increase this supply to increase the cost of home care, I would like to ask you to support next year's budget bill, as this includes a 5% increase in the number of people receiving home care. Thank you very much for your attention. I hope that later this proposal, the bill on which the budget has been submitted, will be adopted, and that progress will be made in some of our many areas, in a number of areas. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-17-266	Thank you, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, I would like to give the floor to the right-hand congressman Ádám Steinmetz, who has applied for the speech after the agenda:, Balaton Balatoni! It's an address.
u2019-06-17-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Summer came, and the holiday homes arrived at Lake Balaton. They come to rest, splash in the lake, and last but not least to eat a fresh, tasty Balaton fish. However, the latter is not given to them or to local residents. In Balaton-coastal hotels, restaurants and fish bistros, there has been no fish in Balaton since December 2013. Since then, we have had to settle for imported Argentine hemisphere, kazakh bass and the fishtail, typically fattened on corn. How does this untenable state serve the interests of the Hungarian people, when our average annual consumption of 6 kilograms per person is less than a third of the EU average? It is therefore important to promote the consumption of fish in Hungary, because it can be concluded that people who eat more fish typically live longer. From a tourist and country image point of view, it is totally unacceptable that hundreds of thousands of people living in the region and visiting the region cannot consume high-quality organic fish from Balaton. It is no coincidence that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself expressed his indignation about the matter a few years ago. [[21.40]] The government has moved since then and allowed the Balaton Fish Farm to sell to Balaton to watch! fish with a designation of origin. These fish, however, do not come from the Hungarian sea, but from the lake farms in the water catchment area of Lake Balaton. This, however, is the typical case of a scam. So the caterer who claims that we have a Balaton fish on our plate is either not telling the truth or has obtained it from an illegal source. I therefore propose that a professional-based dialogue be launched in order to ensure that real Balaton fish can be consumed without prejudice to the interests of nearly 80,000 fishermen fishing at the Hungarian sea. At present, this culinary experience is given only to them and, of course, to them only if it is because of good luck. The fish caught cannot be sold under the current rules. So either you throw it back or you eat it. In a previous speech, I mentioned the problem and raised a proposal for a solution. Part of the profession agrees that the so-called invasive species in the 60,000 hectares lake, the silver-carriage, the buse, the dwarf catfish and the eel, should be established for commercial purposes. These non-indigenous, biologically harmful, but properly prepared very tasty species are especially recommended. Some of these are food competitions for the highly favored bass, and some specifically interfere with the recreational activity of fishermen. So I dare say that it is in the interest of both fishermen, fishermen and Balaton tourism and catering to be able to consume at least the fish species that have just been listed. Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, replied to the previous point, and I quote: what you are proposing is living problems, and I accept them. I am pleased that Mr Secretary of State is also looking at this as a problem. So let's work it out together, in the spirit of constructivity. I would ask the Minister of State or the Secretary of State with all due respect: do you consider it acceptable that millions of Hungarians, including Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and tourists visiting us, have been deprived of eating fish caught from Balaton live water for the sixth year now? If not, what will you do to ensure that these living problems, as mentioned above, are resolved? But since neither Minister nor State Secretary is present in the Chamber, I will ask these questions on another occasion, and thank my fellow Members for their attention at this late hour. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-268	Thank you, Congressman Steinmetz. After the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbikós, spoke with the title "Protection of Science." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In recent days, this House has been following a very sad process here and speaking about two legislative proposals. One of them is the bill that strongly redefines the situation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and, of course, the debate on the 2020 budget is also taking place. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary is a national folk party and, as a truly civil conservative force, it is fighting against the anti-science, knowledge and intellectual rampage of the Fidesz government in every forum of political and scientific life. This anti-intellectual attitude is a good example of yesterday's Democratic headline, where President Lovász, President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, is already being attacked in the best Free People style. It is a shame, a shame to have to have this debate between the walls of this House in times such as Bolshevik times. The protection of the MTA is not a party political matter, but a national matter. Researchers from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, in cooperation with several universities and other institutions, achieve very serious research results, and what results the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has achieved in recent years, the Academy of Sciences reports annually to the government and every two years to the National Assembly. Nevertheless, the concept presented by Minister Palkovics would remove the research network from the management of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences without any particular reasoning. I, as I said in the debate on the bill, would like to conduct a policy debate on how the modernisation process of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences started in 2012 by President Pálinkás, former Fidesz Minister of Education, should be carried out so that the remnants of the Soviet Russian model formed after 45 of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences are permanently removed from the 21st century. From the Academy in the first century. I would very much like to continue with the policy debate on these, but there has been a very serious loss of confidence in the anti-scientific tragedy that continues from the summer of 2008 to today between the Minister and the leadership of the Academy. I asked the Minister to withdraw this current bill in this form, because it is clear that this does not solve the problems of Hungarian science. On the contrary, it would solve the problems of Hungarian science, and I will personally propose this in the Finance Act, so that, on the one hand, the budget line that is currently being transferred under the heading of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network is returned to the ranks of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences right now. On the other hand, because Hungarian science is taking place not only within the bosom of the Academy, but also in the university world, and I would like to stress this here, as a former university leader, that unfortunately there is not enough resources available for this, and many times Hungarian universities are unable to attend international conferences because of the lack of such a framework for universities. On the other hand, I will submit corresponding amendments to the Budget Act, so that there is an adequate source of university research, since academic research and university research are in the interest of Hungarian science. In summary, Jobbik, as a truly civil and conservative force, assures its solidarity with the 5,000 researchers and their families, many of whom have already left our country because their existence and further research have been insecurity by the Fidesz government for many months now. And we think that at the time, István Széchenyi, who founded the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and I could talk about it in more detail, did not mean that the Academy should have such a fate in 2019. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-17-270	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of key public services on the brink of collapse. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-17-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I gave this title to my speech after the agenda because the most important public services were indeed on the brink of collapse. In this case, we have spoken a great deal in Parliament in the last year, and in various other forums, we have interpelled the secretary of state on these matters. We always thought it was very important to say that we did not want to multiply opposition speeches, but that we wanted to transmit emergency signals from the direction of the profession. Accordingly, we have supported these speeches with appropriate expert materials, professional analyses and statistical data, and we have submitted the relevant various legislative proposals, which have also been drawn up and drawn up by the profession. These were voted down and swept down by the majority of the Hungarian Parliament's pro-government. [[21.50]] This would be okay if instead they had submitted their own proposal and solved these problems, but they failed to do so. If we look at the draft budget for next year, we can see that the government still does not want to face these key problems, these fundamental system problems. I'm sorry, Minister of State Banai was sitting here a few minutes ago, and he mentioned such a problem in relation to the situation in the countryside, and he didn't wait for this opportunity to be answered. I could mention a lot of these problems and many public services on the verge of such collapse, but as a rural representative, allow me, in particular, to support this extremely serious claim with two problems that have a very strong impact on rural areas and with some specific figures. In rhetoric, the government, which lies to the national level, considers it important to develop rural areas and introduced or proposed some proposals that would actually aim at this. The programme of the Hungarian villages was also mentioned by the Secretary of State, several of my pro-government fellow Members today, but we also talked about the village CSOK earlier. These may be important measures on their own, but they are insufficient in themselves, so they cannot be measured substantially to the weight of the problems. Mr. State Secretary mentioned that the most important infrastructure in the countryside is the road network, the lower road network, that it is in extremely poor condition, but the corresponding budget line will solve this problem within the Hungarian villages programme. The real content of the budget is underlined by the fact that the Hungarian villages programme includes the development of 430 kilometers of connecting and connecting roads worth HUF 50 billion, compared to which official statistics show that there are 16 thousand kilometres of bad roads and lower roads in poor condition. This shows that the government is practically, to say, doing almost nothing to catch up with the countryside, and accordingly, both the Hungarian villages and the village CSOK can only be interpreted as a kind of rhetorical element, but no one thinks that in this way, that the road network is practically falling apart, in any way it can be done in any way to create the population-preservation power of the countryside. Another example in rural areas, a particular example of water affairs, is the situation in rural areas.We have also discussed this in several circles here in the Hungarian Parliament, and here I can also give you some shocking statistics. Today, in terms of water utility systems, 25 per cent of the drinking water network is a network loss, so 25 per cent of the drinking water produced does not reach consumers due to various network failures. The proportion of water systems with an appropriate rating has fallen below 20%, which is also a statistical figure in professional documents, so it is not a product of an opposition fantasy. Since 2012, the number of malfunctions has doubled in terms of water utility systems, and municipalities, the municipalities responsible for care, have no resources to carry out these appropriate maintenance, as we have witnessed government measures that have put services companies in a particularly difficult position in the past period, with a significant share of them operating at a loss, some of them on the brink of bankruptcy. According to the Hungarian Water Utility Association, 1500 billion HUF would be needed to complete the most important maintenance and replacement work in the 15-year horizon. The County City Association's estimate is even scarier, they put the funding needs to HUF 3000 billion in the 15-year horizon in order to ensure that the most important public service, the drinking water service, works. Compared to this, the government has set up a maintenance fund of one and a half billion and an equivalent amount can be seen in next year's budget. These are two examples, and I wouldn't have time for more, but I could give a long list of statistical data and professional signals that show that it really is not an exaggeration to say that the most important public services are on the brink of collapse. I did not speak after the agenda so that I would be answered by government representatives or undersecretaries of state, no, to the people, to the public services, or to the municipalities responsible for maintaining public services, in what way they intend to solve this problem. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-17-272	Thank you very much, Congressman László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed.
