u2019-05-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome my fellow Members. Extraordinary session of the Parliament is now in session. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Reliable will be here to help me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. Dear Parliament, As you can see, the government doesn't represent you at today's meeting. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's a big problem. This is a big problem! A statement from the opposition: Shame!]] Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group of the MSZP, has applied for a pre-meeting speech on current affairs. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-05-17-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am forced to turn here, because apparently, despite the slave law, even though it would be possible to do 400 hours of extra work for the Fidesz MEPs, they wouldn't be willing to do it in their normal working hours. [[A statement from the opposition: Shame!]] to honour the Hungarian Parliament on such an important matter and to discuss the proposal that we have submitted together for today. I thank my fellow opposition Members for having at least them here. But it is no wonder, because we see the attitude of the Prime Minister in this case, because a mother of nine has wished her perseverance in a letter of reply and good luck. This nine - childed mother turned to the Prime Minister in her final despair because her family was about to be evicted. If you look at the Christian values that the Prime Minister proclaims, you can see that the representation of Christian values is very far from the attitude of Fidesz and the Prime Minister, and the DNA of Central Europe, it seems that thousands of families, the fate of thousands of families, are not willing to deal with, however, with their own interests of power. After all, we can see that the Prime Minister has lost his main allies in Europe, and we can also see that he is looking for a new alliance with far-right populist politicians, which we are fighting against, but he is finding and seeking allies outside Europe, but it costs Hungarian taxpayers a great deal of money. Because let's see how he went to Moscow to see Putin, came home with a loan of HUF 3000 billion, which would serve Paks II investment, thus buying Putin's trust from taxpayers' money. Then he goes to Beijing, comes home with a loan of 800-850 billion to build a railway line. And now he's gone to the United States, and we don't even know how much this is going to cost the Hungarian taxpayers, but we're sure we'll have to pay hundreds of billions of forints for this few-minute meeting. But we have to pay for this, the Hungarian taxpayers, and we see that this amount of money is not enough, but much more than it is possible to solve the lives of families who are about to be evicted, to solve the fair settlement of foreign currency credit debts, and to save thousands of families from eviction. But this money would also be enough to catch up on wages, to raise pensions significantly in line with wages, and to eliminate the income gap that is increasing between earners and millions of people who earn less. Therefore, Fidesz's attitude to this issue is quite astonishing, to be rejected, but now it is possible to send a message to the Hungarian voters that it was enough that the Hungarian people's takeover and enrichment of their own family is more important to the Prime Minister than the fate of the Hungarian people. It is possible to send a message that we want to belong to a Europe that is about people, a secure livelihood for people; where Hungary, wages in Hungary, can be caught up with wages in Western Europe; where there is a European minimum wage; where there is a European minimum pension; where there is a European minimum pension; where there is a European minimum family allowance. This is the goal that we are fighting for together, and that there is also a social housing programme that can alleviate the housing crisis that has emerged in Hungary. For 15 years, a young couple have to work to buy a decent apartment. Despite the discriminatory many, many support when millions of families cannot start their own, independent homes. That is why we are fighting, and on May 26th, next Sunday, Hungarian voters will have the opportunity to send a message to the Prime Minister that we have had enough. Help foreign exchange credentials, help families who are losing their homes right now, in the days or in the future. This is what this proposal is about, which we have put forward together here, and I find it very tragic to talk about empty chairs. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-17-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the Group of Dialogue, Mr Szabó Timea, Head of the Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2019-05-17-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government who are not present! It is quite stomach-stricken what you are doing; I suppose you will hear these speeches before the agenda. You did not come to a meeting where you should immediately give an account of how you can allow children 4-5 years old in Hungary today to be on the street and, if necessary, to be separated from their families. They should now account for how, after nine years of government, it is possible that tens of thousands are still threatened by eviction; that more than one million people are affected by enforcement procedures; that Viktor Orbán and his government have been able to help families in distress for nine years, but they did not want to help them. But let's see who these families are. For example, in front of the eviction moratorium, they put the mother and the little girl in a coma at the age of 12 who couldn't pay her credit for home care and lost her home because of the inhumanity of the government and the bank. But the executor did not spare the elderly woman who was born with an open spine, who also had epilepsy, who was unable to care for herself. The mother took out a loan for the surgery, and her husband left them, so after a while she couldn't pay for the details. Recently, he forced an elderly, disabled woman and her mate in Ferencváros to leave the police's home. They took out 3 million forints of loans, and after the repayment of 1.5 million forints they owed 13 million forints. After a loan of HUF 3 million, they owed HUF 13 million! Well, where's the truth? ! Why didn't Viktor Orbán and his government help these people or those who are now sitting in the box and involved in these matters? Or is it helpful that Viktor Orbán wishes the mother of her nine children good luck alone? Well, is it a Prime Minister or a human being? And they're the ones who lie about helping you? ! With what? Payback only helped the wealthy, got them out of trouble. After the mandatory forinting, capital debts jumped three times. An asset manager who arbitraryly rejects families without any justification is not a help! Orbán helped Hungarian families by taking their homes away from nearly 40,000 families and children in the last three years. A city and a man the size of Dunaújváros was put on the street because of the inhumanity of Viktor Orbán; all of this, while under the family-friendly government, the profits of Hungarian banks increased by 40 percent to HUF 700 billion. Families on the street and banks on the street are extra profits - this is the essence of Viktor Orbán's governance. [[9.10]] There is an immediate solution: first of all, all eviction and enforcement procedures must be suspended. If, even after the European Court of Justice, the Hungarian courts state that the additional costs arising from exchange rate risk cannot be charged only to the debtor, the bank must also take on the part of it, so that it is not possible to deduct or seize or auction movable property or property. You have to comply with the municipal law, and you can't put anyone on the street without housing. Finally, the Bank's HUF 140 billion foreign exchange gains must be used to help people. We recommend building social housing and expanding the asset manager. But we see that Viktor Orbán does not spend our common money on Hungarian families, but rather gives HUF 5 billion for tourism in Uganda and HUF 50 billion for Zsolt Semjén's hunting exhibition. Well, that's the stakes, that's the stakes of the European elections! Let the Orbáns steal our money for Tiborcz, Butcher, Matolcsy? Or we will use common wealth and EU funds to help people, so that everyone can live a decent life. This is exactly what the MSZP-Palogue Association wants, which is what it expects after the European elections. In the EU, we will fight to introduce the EUR 700, the European minimum wage of HUF 240 thousand and a European minimum pension of EUR 300, or nearly HUF 100 thousand. We do not allow old people to freeze in their apartments for HUF 28,500. We do not allow daycare workers and teachers to bring home 70 and 90 thousand forints a month while stealing 35 billion forints for Tiborcz, Orbán's son-in-law. That's what Hungarians get. There is a decent life not only in Germany or England, but also in Hungary. We must fight together for a Europe of solidarity, which is why on 26 May we must vote on the only common list, the MSZP-Palogue list, because we can only win together. Thank you.
u2019-05-17-4	Dear Parliament, Would the Prime Minister be able to look into the eyes of the parents he evicts with their families on the street? Mr Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-05-17-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the House, who have honored today's extraordinary meeting with their presence here! I, too, have to start by saying that it is shocking to see it, to face it, and not for the first time, that the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance simply turns its back on them, just after them it does not spit on families who face financial difficulties. We are no better at showing Hungarian relations than the two news that appeared on the same day last week. According to the first, Viktor Orbán replied to a nine-year-old mother who asked for his help that we sincerely regret that we cannot be of assistance beyond the information. We wish you, on behalf of Prime Minister, perseverance and all other good things. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Cynical!]] Please, this face toaster cynicism cannot be accepted by either a representative or a citizen. Well, we're glad you didn't wish us just a merry Christmas in the middle of spring. The other news, which appeared on the same day, was that István Tiborcz was included among the richest hundred Hungarians. You know, he's the one who stood on his own feet, standing on his own feet like they were jumping on taxpayers' feet with ironed boots. I think that these two news, in parallel, will show perfectly the relations in Hungary that we must and will change. This duality in our country is a rock-hard reality. The NER knights are made billionaire by this government, and families with financial difficulties are destroyed. I don't think that's right. I think that he is not well enough that I would shout and slap a table in my heart, because right now the Hungarian Parliament is not able to force the two governing parties to deal with the matter in substance. Dear House, Let the facts speak. In 2018, 3212 evictions took place in Hungary. This means that in the year of the family - the family-friendly government - the Hungarian government put 3212 families on the street. That's about 10,000 people. Ten thousand people have come to the streets because the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance constantly, consistently and repeatedly rejects opposition initiatives to resolve the housing crisis. I think that convening today's parliamentary session is a step, but we are not stopping here, ladies and gentlemen. The debate on the budget is coming, and we will put forward over and over and over again proposals that can provide a meaningful solution to the housing crisis and to improve the quality of life of people in poor social conditions. Dear House, I can't think with enough gratitude The City belongs to all civil society organisations and movement whose initiative has been convened or initiated by all opposition parties today. I also thank the opposition parties for their support for this initiative. I think that everyone should clearly see that solving the housing crisis is a state task. Article XXII of the Fundamental Law It states that Hungary strives to ensure the conditions of decent housing for all, as is the case in international treaties, and recognises as a fundamental right and guarantees the right to housing for all citizens. Dear House, I ask you with great respect that, since your fellow Members, your fellow Members, are not here, keep them informed and tell them that this problem cannot wait any longer, not just one day, not one minute. The eviction moratorium expired on April 30th. If we don't want tens of thousands of families, the family-friendly government doesn't want tens of thousands more people, young children and old people on the streets, then we expect substantial steps from the government, because it is the government's duty. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-17-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, hundreds of thousands on the side of the road, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-05-17-7	Mr President, Dear House, I accuse the Government of Hungary of the betrayal that it has committed today, not only because its representatives are not tired of their work, but they lecture those needy Hungarian families in a cynical, pompous, arrogant way, about whom a promise has been made that they will not be left on the side of the road. Viktor Orbán and his government not only left these people on the side of the road, but systematically kicked them into the ditch and knocked down the whole area with napalm. He created such a climate, such an environment around the victims, and in this situation, the Prime Minister sends his best wishes. I therefore accuse the Government of Hungary of the inhumanity that is unprecedented in Central Europe, but perhaps also in Europe's outlook, very few examples are found. I have to say, Jobbik has placed six points of bank accountability on the table. The transfer of these six points could provide a full guarantee of the protection of victims if the Government of Hungary met the minimum democratic requirements and at least came into this room, if there were at least enough masculinity and courage in its representatives to dare to argue with the supposedly very weak, supposedly disintegrated, supposedly nowhere and uninspired opposition. Let me list here six ideas on which I am not only looking forward to, but I expect the meaningful reaction of the cowardly pro-government representatives. In the first instance, an immediate eviction and partial enforcement moratorium should be imposed, not only in order to prevent the eviction of families with small children, but also in order to prevent the eviction of every injured Hungarian in distress from his home. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] [[9.20]] Secondly, I expect the Government of Hungary to break the pact with the EBRD, not to fulfill its commitment to foreign banks that it will not put any more burden on them in order to resolve the situation of Hungarian families. Thirdly, we expect a return of the banking sector special tax to the proportionate level that allows for inclusion in the burden-sharing for banks and financial institutions. Fourthly, we expect the same with regard to credit institutions' benefits and contributions. Fifthly, I expect the Government of Hungary to eliminate unjustified transfers that affect the families concerned, whether in a transaction fee or in other forms, because this, possibly in the budget or in the amounts left with the people, could be partly resolved. And lastly, by HUFing loans at the rate of admission, the whole problem area can be fixed. I would like to stress that I have never received an explanation from a Fidesz MEP as to how the rich, wealthy family could repay a discounted, one-off, discount rate of HUF 180, including Members of Parliament, and why the man in difficulty received the market rate of HUF 256. I would like to say that Jobbik's home creation programme, the rental-house building programme, is a complete solution to this issue, not only the supply scarcity that prevails in the housing and housing markets, but also at systemic level, but we need to get to the government to do so, because the current government is clearly cutting this issue off. I therefore accuse the Government of Hungary of betraying the Hungarian future, betraying the young Hungarians and, in essence, doing nothing against the spin of the migration spiral. The aim of Jobbik's EU wage concept would be precisely to slow down this emigration spiral substantially by resolving the amazing pay gap in the West East. What does the Government of Hungary do compared to this? He not only tolerates, he condones emigration, but he pours the masses of foreign workers into Hungary, causing long-term, amazing problems. That is why, as a representative of the strongest opposition party, I say that this madness must be stopped, it must be achieved in Hungary so that no family can be evicted unduly. I therefore accuse all Hungarian governments since 2006 of complicity in this amazing economic assassination, and I expect that all those responsible will be placed on the bench of the defendants, and that misconception that has been taking place in this country for 30 years is unacceptable on this issue, as on all other issues. This country needs a system change at last. So it must be said that these images will speak for themselves. The empty seats of the Fidesz MEPs send a clear message to everyone: perhaps only in a historical perspective, perhaps not tomorrow and not the day after tomorrow, but it will end up in a dump in history. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-17-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, From the DK Group, Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, leader of the Group, spoke before the agenda with the title "Spring 2019." Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-05-17-9	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, a good week before the elections to the European Parliament, I would like to talk to you about its stakes and its obvious outcome today. Despite the fact that we still have nine days left in this campaign, and I suspect that, as usual, the intensity of this campaign will increase in the last nine days, the outcome, the real object of our struggle, is now pretty much visible. For the first time in the history of the European Union, two very clear, irreconcilable positions are being fought. It's not a boring choice. For the first time, a force has appeared which, unlike their predecessors or the spirit of their founding fathers, Christian Democrat founding fathers, we can say that the symbolic figure of the Hungarian Prime Minister is not in the way that the peoples of Europe will be able to cooperate better, more closely, but in the opposite way: how to retreat behind nationalist national positions, how to put national selfishness in place of national cooperation, in place of the cooperation of nations. On the other hand - this is what we represent when we talk about European united states - a Europe that is increasingly decisive on social, economic, cultural and political issues and that strengthens European nations together. The Hungarian Prime Minister's many years of struggle have clearly failed. That can be said before the ballot box opens. It is very clear that the vast majority of Europe's citizens, the vast majority of the factions that give to the European Parliament, want a stronger, closer, more cooperative Europe. For the first time since there is a Fidesz delegation in Parliament, the Hungarian Prime Minister will be in opposition, representing the minority in opposition. You can say that, to be honest, it doesn't matter. I must say to you, with some experience behind my back, that it is very interesting, because nobody in the European Parliament has a majority, not a single parliamentary faction, not a single party. The largest faction has a maximum of 20 percent, the largest party, the party association, the German CDU-CSU has a maximum of 5 percent. This is the word of the one who has friends and allies, and the next thing I know, I wouldn't talk us out of further campaigning. I say to the voters that a mandate that supports a stronger Europe in this Parliament is worth more than the ten or a few mandates of Fidesz, because that one mandate will have allies and friends, and those twelve-to-one will have a maximum of 90 seats in Salvini. What I can tell you is that the majority of Europe today miss Orbán as much as the North Pole has recently measured an extra 31 degrees; I will tell the Speaker of the House that he has some disabilities. [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] I think that every stronger pro-European voter in Hungary should be encouraged to help the Hungarian opposition, because there is no difference between us in this respect, to obtain as many votes and mandates as possible. What is one more mandate for the opposition is one less for Fidesz, which is destroying Europe. It's our responsibility! Europe has recognised that the Hungarian Prime Minister protects not the Christian Europe, but Beelzebub, and I think that it is not Beelzebubs and not the policy of the Hungarian Prime Minister that those who are evicted, who suffer from foreign currency loans, who think that they deserve as much wages as any of their fellow Europeans. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-17-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the questions before the agenda. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript to the Parliament on the appointment of the Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary. You have the floor. [[9.30]]
u2019-05-17-11	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Articles 9 (four) (c) and 41 (three) of the Fundamental Law and CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. Article 11 On the basis of Article 5 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Mihály Patai as Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank for a period of six years with effect from 22 April 2019. Budapest, 8 April 2019 Sincerely, János Áder is President of the Republic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Congratulations!]] Paragraph 1 (c) and Article 41 (3) and the 2013 CXXXIX on the National Bank of Hungary. Article 11 On the basis of Article 5 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Mihály Patai as Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank for a period of six years with effect from 22 April 2019. Budapest, 8 April 2019 Sincerely, János Áder is President of the Republic. (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Congratulations!)
u2019-05-17-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare 47 Members of the Parliament Act 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the T/5905 on certain amendments to the laws necessary to prevent the homelessness of families with children. For the purpose of negotiating bill No 1. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, thank you very much. [[It's grumpy. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Unanimous! Calling out from Jobbik's ranks: A visible majority!]] I declare that the Parliament is clearly not capable of a quorum. I would like to announce that Mr Máté Kocsis has in a letter initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I now respectfully ask the Parliament whether it accepts the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote using the ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament shall not have a quorum with 47 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. He came forward on a case-by-case basis... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai on signal:]] No. Thank you very much, that was an accidental push of a button. Dear Parliament, As Fidesz and KDNP are fractions, I am aware that there is no way to restore the quorum today. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] , since they are not attending today's meeting, on this basis, the house rules are 14. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, as a result of the previous vote, I can determine the list of missing persons and order them to be set. In the absence of an agreed agenda proposal, no item on the agenda may be discussed. I respectfully inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 27 May 2019. The meeting's closed.
