u2019-10-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 3rd day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law implementing Act C of 2017 on Hungary's central budget for 2018 will follow. T/7556. Government referral No 1 and T/7556/2 on the control of the implementation of Hungary's central budget for 2018 submitted by the State Audit Office. Report No 1 is available on the parliamentary network. Dear Parliament, I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office and his colleagues, who have arrived at the hearing. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the bill, in a 40-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-24-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Dear Parliament, On 30 September, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill on the implementation of the central budget for 2018. The final accounts for the previous year show that, as a result of the government's consistent economic and budgetary policy, our country has achieved better than ever in terms of both the level of economic growth and the strengthening of fiscal stability and the improvement of the country's international image. Hungary's economic results also exceed what was expected when the 2018 budget was presented: the Hungarian economy grew by 5.1 percent, rather than 4.3 percent, well above the EU average. As a result of the disciplined fiscal policy, the stability of public finances has been further strengthened, the deficit under the EU methodology has been achieved more than the original target, instead of 2.4 per cent of GDP, at 2.3 per cent. Meanwhile, the government debt-to-GDP ratio also decreased at a higher rate than assumed: from 72.9 per cent at the end of 2017 to 70.2 per cent, which represents a reduction of 2.7 percentage points. At the same time, the structure of the public debt has improved substantially, so the foreign exchange ratio has fallen from 52 per cent at the end of 2011 to 23 per cent and the foreigner ratio has dropped from 65 per cent to 36 per cent. Together with the strengthening of the economy, the standard of living of Hungarian people and Hungarian families has increased. These results, which have contributed to reducing the country's foreign exchange exposure and external vulnerability, are already recognised by international credit rating agencies and financial institutions. It is memorable that in 2016, Hungary was re-elected as an investment category, while, in particular, in view of the processes of the year 2018, in February, Standard & Poor and Fitch Ratings ranked our country one category above, although in practice, based on the decisions of market investors, this was already achieved earlier. Ladies and Gentlemen, Macroeconomic stabilisation, the restoration of external and internal balances and a number of additional government measures have contributed significantly to the strengthening of investor confidence. One of the main indicators of the macroeconomic processes of recent years is that growth, unlike the period before 2010, is not due to debt, but to strong fundamentals, and almost all sectors contributed to acceleration. In particular, the construction sector has grown to the greatest extent, in which the government's home-building programme plays a significant role. At the same time, the performance of the service sector and industry and agriculture has increased beyond the performance of previous years. In 2018, more than HUF 10 700 billion of investment was made in Hungary, so both the private and public sectors contributed positively to the expansion of the Hungarian economy. Another stable pillar of growth was the growing consumption of households by 4.9 percent, supported by increasing employment and rising incomes, as well as targeted tax reductions and tax incentives. The favourable labour market trends continued: last year the number of people employed increased to around 4.5 million, while the unemployment rate decreased to 3.7 percent; at the same time 47 thousand fewer people participated in public employment programmes, which means that more and more people were able to return to the primary labour market. The average gross monthly earnings of the employees increased to 330,000 HUF, while the net average earnings calculated in the light of the family tax reduction increased by more than 11 percent. As a result of the wage increase and tax reduction agreement, the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers increased by more than 24.3% and 40 percent respectively compared to 2016. In terms of external trade trends, progress has also been made: Hungarian exports of goods increased by 4.3 percent, while imports increased by 6.4 percent. Although last year the rate of increase in imports exceeded its exports, the surplus in trade in goods remained high at EUR 5.5 billion. To sum up, disciplined fiscal policy has contributed substantially to financial and economic developments that are more favourable than forecast and to a substantial reduction in the debt ratio. Dear House, Together, these factors allowed the continuation of the government's social policy focusing on families. In order to promote family-friendly public thinking, 2018 was the year of families, with a number of measures to support families and encourage children. Last year, the government increased the tax relief of families with two children to HUF 17.5 thousand per child per month, leaving a net HUF 60,000 more than these families in 2018 compared to 2017. In the framework of a further targeted tax reduction, it reduced the VAT rate for fish, pig offal, Braille printers and indicators from 27 percent to 5 percent. It also reduced the rate of VAT on restaurant meals and internet access from 18 percent to 5 percent from 2018. Until the ninth grade, he made textbook provision free of charge for all students in daily education, including those in first vocational training. The government ran the home creation program, through which families could use up to HUF 10 million depending on the number of children. In addition, additional elements appeared: in addition to state aid of up to HUF 10 million, the number of beneficiaries of the related preferential interest subsidy loan was expanded and the amount of credit was increased. In addition, in the year of the family, the government decided, among other things, that the state would take over a million forints from the debt of the mortgaged families in the event of the birth of third and further children. [[9.10]] The total debt of young people with student loans will be released in the event of the birth of third and further children and 50% in the case of the second child. The duration of the graduate is extended by one year, until the child is two years old. It extends the scope of the maternity allowance to Hungarians residing or living abroad and makes the baby bond available to them and launches the most important cradle development program of all time. All these measures have contributed to strengthening the role of families in society, the implementation of families' childbearing plans, and the balance between child rearing and employment. Dear Parliament, The government's aim is to make it worth the work of everyone in Hungary, and to ensure that people earn their living primarily from income. The financial and moral appreciation of public sector workers has been strengthened by a number of measures in recent years, which has been highlighted last year. Thus, the career plans launched in previous years continued in 2018: professional law enforcement and defence workers were able to expect a further 5% wage increase, as a result of the multi-stage wage arrangement in the healthcare sector started in 2016, the workers and those employed in the National Rescue Service received an increase, while in the social sector the wages of those working in the health profession also increased significantly. In the field of public education, the teaching career of the fifth year of continuous wage growth has been completed, and higher education instructors and research wage management have also completed another 5 percent rate. After 35 percent increase in previous years, the career of the National Tax and Customs Office staff arrived at their closing schedule with another 15 percent wage increase. Some law enforcement workers have also received an additional 5% increase. In addition, there has been a wage increase for those working at the Parliament's Office and those employed in the water sector. Honourable Members, Today's economic results would not have been available without the work of the current pensioners. This is recognised by government measures to strengthen the social respect of older people and promote intergenerational cooperation. For this reason, the government paid particular attention to the moral and financial appreciation of pensioners in 2018. In January 2018, pensions increased by 3 percent, which exceeded by 0.3 percentage points the rate of growth in the pensionable consumer price shown by the HCSO in 2018. The real value of pensions has therefore continued to increase. Between 2011-18, the government, on average, increased pensions by almost 30 percent, thus improving its purchasing power by around 10 percent, thanks to persistently low inflation. In addition, the government paid particular attention to the role of women in the family, so it continued to ensure that women with 40 + eligibility periods could retire. In addition to guaranteeing age security, economic growth above the EU average allowed every pensioner and pensioner in Hungary's history to receive a pension premium for the second time in November 2018, with a maximum per capita amount of HUF 18 thousand, and in spring it received a HUF 2.6 million Erzsébet voucher for the Easter holidays. All these benefits were therefore aimed at recognising pensioners who worked for the country and raised their children for decades. Dear House, In Hungary, the government and Parliament have developed a tax system supporting families and employment in recent years. The main objective was to improve the situation of businesses in 2018, to strengthen our competitiveness, to promote the whitening of the economy and to improve the efficiency of tax collection. As a result, last year the tax and contribution reductions left HUF 290 billion for families, the population and businesses raising children. To this end, the government has, among other things, left the 15 percent personal income tax rate unchanged, which is the second lowest in the European Union. In line with the wage and tax reduction agreement concluded in 2016, the rate of social contribution tax on employers was reduced from 22 to 19.5%, while the rate of health contribution was reduced to 19.5 percent. It maintained a uniformly reduced corporate tax to 9 per cent, with which our country remains the most competitive state in Europe in terms of income taxation. At the same time, it extended the development tax relief for corporate tax with two items: from 2018 onwards, with a discount on capital investment worth at least HUF 6 billion and investments for job creation of at least HUF 3 billion. With a view to simplifying the administration and bleaching the income from housing leases, it abolished the health contribution to the income from the rental of real estate. In order to increase economic growth, competitiveness and promote the whitening of the economy, the VAT allocation deadline for reliable taxpayers was reduced from 45 to 30 days in order to ensure a positive treatment of the taxpayer. In parallel with the reduction in the rate of social contribution tax to improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises last year, the key to small business tax continued to decrease from 14 to 13 percent. In addition, the concept of a full-time taxpayer has been clarified in the case of taxes on small-tax entrepreneurs, which has been the choice of law firms since 2018. In order to support sustainable development and enhance environmental awareness, the government has increased the benefit of energy efficiency investments for income tax on companies and energy suppliers. In addition to investment for energy efficiency purposes, a tax relief may be used for renovation. In order to increase the efficiency of tax collection, the online account data service was introduced on a mandatory basis from 1 July 2018, thus the data of invoices between taxable persons with a VAT content of at least HUF 100 thousand were made available to the tax authority in real time. Thanks to the government's economic whitening measures, in 2018, the European Union's preliminary estimate shows that in Hungary, from 21 per cent in 2013 to 9 per cent, the amount of uncollected VAT and budget revenues increased simultaneously, allowing the tax reductions described to be implemented and additional expenditure to be carried out, with the government holding the deficit target last year. The results are well perceived by the development of revenues from the four largest tax categories. As a result of corporate tax, personal income tax, general sales tax and excise duty, the growth of the economy and the bleaching measures increased by HUF 195 billion. Dear Parliament, As a result of these processes, the government's economic and social policy objectives could continue to be achieved by the budget in 2018. The general government deficit was reached at HUF 1202.1 billion and the lack of the central subsystem was achieved at HUF 1451.6 billion. As I have already said, the deficit of the government sector in accordance with the EU methodology was achieved by 2.3 percent of GDP. This was achieved by providing the government with the opportunity, at the end of 2018, to transfer additional resources to support, for example, educational, cultural, social, family and health objectives, certain investments in sport infrastructure development and grants for sport purposes, support to NGOs and cross-border organisations and to national and cross-border churches, funding programmes for Hungarians living across borders. Thus, at the end of this year, items of more than HUF 180 billion could be considered as one-off and, together with this, we were able to meet the budget deficit target. [[9.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to further explain the situation of certain sub-areas of public finances. The 2018 expenditure of programmes and tasks on certain items managed by central budgetary bodies and so-called chapters was completed at HUF 10 418,5 billion. This means that compared to 2017 they could manage 160.4 billion forints from more sources last year. The surpluses have occurred in a number of sectors, such as education, culture and health. In 2018, large investments in higher education continued, such as the investment of the University of Pécs, the creation of a new campus at the University of Physical Education, and the implementation of the investment of the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts. The programme for institutional excellence in higher education was launched with a budget of HUF 15 billion per year to strengthen the focus on research, development and innovation in the operation of higher education institutions. The central budget supported, among other things, the financing of the projects of the Patient's Mercy and the joint development of Bethesda Children's Hospital and the Buda Mercy Hospital. The budget provided a significant source of expenditure related to the operation of air rescue, the extraordinary support of healthcare institutions, the operation of the residency system, the purchase of rescue vehicles from the National Rescue Service, the maintenance of health development offices, the Healthy Budapest, as well as the strengthening of the infrastructure of state-owned institutions providing fertility treatment. Within the framework of the Hungarian Helps programme, which is based on the principle of direct humanitarian assistance on the ground, HUF 4.2 billion was provided to the persecuted Christian communities. In addition, Christian youths who were persecuted and discriminated against in the autumn of 2017 could continue their higher education at universities in Hungary. In order to address the ongoing migratory pressure and to protect the borders of the European Union, the government also took a number of measures in 2018. In view of the crisis caused by mass immigration, the central budget provided a significant HUF 112.4 billion in 2018, while a total amount of HUF 45.2 billion was available to increase the effectiveness of counter-terrorism. The result of the government's strong action is that our country is still among the safest countries in the world. Dear Parliament, Next, I would like to say a few words about the use of EU funds for Hungary last year. As is known, the government aims to direct 60% of the funds available for 2014-2020 to support economic development. In 2018 the beneficiaries of the various economic and social programmes could receive EU budget support of HUF 1892 billion. 83 per cent of the payments were made by the Structural and Cohesion Programmes, 10 per cent by the Rural Development Programme and 7 per cent by other EU programmes with a lower budget. Payments were increased by the amount of non-budget agricultural subsidies, which represented HUF 391 billion in direct income replacement support for farmers. Overall, nearly HUF 2283 billion of EU funding was provided in 2018. It should be noted here that the expenditure of EU programmes was slightly lower than the level envisaged in the 2018 budget, both expenditure and revenue differed from the draft. This was the decisive reason why the payment balance was different from that calculated in advance. However, I would like to emphasise that instead of the planned 4.3 percent economic expansion, the Hungarian economy grew by 5.1 percent with lower use of EU programmes, i.e. the surplus was not due to the use of EU funds. Dear House, The management of the Pension Insurance Fund continued to be stable and balanced in 2018, with a total revenue of HUF 3352.7 billion, with a total expenditure of HUF 3352.4 billion. As a result of the wage increase and tax reduction agreement, the reduction of the social contribution tax, which represents one of the main sources of income of the Fund, continued in 2018. As a result of the reduced employer tax burden, businesses have been able to spend significant extra resources on development, investment and wage increases. At the same time, as a result of the reduction in the tax burden, revenue fell from the Pension Insurance Fund, which was compensated by the central budget in the form of a grant of HUF 60.6 billion. The pension expenditure of the Fund in 2018 amounted to HUF 3346.7 billion, which covered the supply of nearly 2.2 million persons per year. Nearly HUF 2700 billion was paid to our pensionable fellow pensioner, almost 1.9 million. The fund spent about HUF 235.3 bn on the Women's 40 programme. At the end of the year, some 150,000 women received an average of HUF 132 thousand in care to assist young parents in their childbearing and parenting tasks. In November 2018, over HUF 32,3 billion in the fund's reserve was paid to the right holders for a pension premium of HUF 35.9 billion. The basic objectives of the pension scheme were therefore met in 2018. The integrity of pension benefits and the stability of the pension system have been achieved, while they have been able to receive additional benefits in the form of a pension premium. Dear Parliament, The revenues of the Health Insurance Fund in 2018 amounted to HUF 2350.1 billion and its expenses were completed at HUF 2434.1 billion. Within the fund's revenues, contributions and contributions amounted to HUF 1624.6 billion, which deviated by nearly HUF 6 billion from the draft. A small part of the revenues were budget contributions amounting to HUF 536.6 billion. In addition to integrating the rate of wage increase started in 2016 in 2017 the Fund's largest expenditure, it provided cover for an additional 8 percent increase in the wages of healthcare workers, plus an additional 10 percent increase in the wages of the National Rescue Service workers above these increases; a further 130 thousand HUF increase in the monthly amount of the premium fee for the general medical service providers; a further HUF 130,000 increase in the share premium fee for the basic dental care provider; an increase of 130 thousand HUF per month; an increase in the financing of children's care institutions; an increase in the additional financing of high-value, batch-accounted medicines; the inclusion of new procedures; the implementation of measures to reduce waiting lists, and the reduction of the overdue debt of public service providers providing health care services, the implementation of incentive measures. Of course, we still have work to do in all areas, but I think that in 2018 we were also able to provide significant additional resources in the area of health in order to improve the health of the population. Dear House, The central financing of local authorities in 2018 was also characterised by the implementation of a task-based support system adapted to the performance of tasks. Last year's main task continued to be to maintain predictability and local stability, to strengthen the fiscal conditions for management without operational deficits, including the promotion of further catching-up of small settlements. Therefore, differentiated support according to the economic capacity of the municipalities was maintained both in terms of operation and in terms of tender-based developments. The municipalities used their savings accumulated in previous years to implement their various developments, which was confirmed by the fact that a number of government decisions over the course of the year provided additional resources for the development goals for the fulfilment of compulsory municipal tasks. In addition, a significant budget surplus of HUF 249.5 billion was created in the municipal sub-scheme in 2018, which will serve as a source of municipal development goals in the coming years. This surplus relates, on the one hand, to the payment of the municipal advance on programmes financed by the government linked to the additional local industrialisation tax revenue due to economic growth, and, on the other hand, to the items of the programme "Modern cities" in addition to EU funds. [[9.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the State Audit Office for its work on the audit of the accounts. In its report, the Court pointed out that the implementation of the budget for 2018 was in line with the legal requirements, and that the bill was a realistic presentation of the figures and information on the implementation of the budget. In addition, it points out that the draft discharge law was drawn up in a regular manner. Dear Parliament, In view of this, it can be said that the budget for 2018 has been well-founded in the budget of the people living in the workplace, and that the year 2018 will be the year of families. Strong economic growth, continuing tax reductions, broadening family policy measures and wage increases have all served to improve the situation of all social sectors. The challenge of the period ahead is to protect the results of the Hungarian economy and to maintain our high growth potential in the EU as well in a slowing European and global economy environment, and to keep the growth of the Hungarian economy by about 2 percentage points above the EU average. Our aim is to continue to provide more access to all priority areas, support for families, employment expansion, education, health care, pensions, and security while further strengthening public finances and reducing government debt. To sum up, there are still a number of things to be done, but the 2018 accounts and the results of the last few years are, in our opinion, very thorough for further work. In the light of what has been said, I would also kindly ask you to discuss and support the draft discharge law for 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-24-2	Thank you, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. I now give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2019-10-24-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I start my parliamentary expo with a brief historical overview and a flash-forward. It has only been three weeks since the execution of the 13 martyrs of Arad and the Prime Minister Lajos Batthyány 170 years ago on 6 October. I recall this tragic event in this place because during the revolution of 1848 the expectation was first formulated for an institution that independently supervises, has the Treasury accounted for, and makes it public for the benefit of the public. The formation of the State Audit Office, formerly known as the Hungarian Royal Supreme State Audit Office, was mostly established in 1870. It is bound to an article of law, but it has already been foreseen by legislation contained in a previous law to bring this constitutional organisation to life. This was born in one of the most glorious years of Hungarian history, in 1848 III. Article 37 of the Act. §2 of the Act first fixed the budgetary right of the Hungarian Parliament. Why is this passage so important? On the one hand, it was the first time that the planning of revenue and expenditure, as well as the related accounting, which was both the right and duty of lawmakers and executives, appeared to the legal level. On the other hand, the problems arising from the practical enforcement of the law first outlined the need to set up a main auditor. Dear House, Next year it will be 150 years since the first independent Hungarian State Audit Office started its operation in 1870, whose fundamental and most important task was to monitor the implementation of the state budget, i.e. the closing accounts. It's no different today, a century and a half later. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Parliament adopts the central budget and approves its implementation. The Fundamental Law also lays down that the central budget should be implemented legally and effectively, effectively managing public funds and ensuring transparency. In addition to the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act, the principles governing the regularity of budgetary management are laid down in particular in the Public Finance Act and the Government Decree implementing it, as well as in the Accounting Act. According to this, the fundamental rule affecting the sustainability of the budget, its predictability and the development of public debt is that it is possible to commit within the limits of the available appropriations. This is the basis for responsible public finance management. The central subsystem institutions have a significant impact on the proper implementation of the budget and the sustainability of the budgetary balance. For this reason, it is important to ensure that public funds are properly, transparent and accountable. The management of appropriations, the assignment of tasks adapted to redesign are the basic prerequisites for increasing the efficiency of the economy and the transparency of the management. The State Audit Office shall monitor annually the implementation of the central budget, the closure of the implementation of the budget of the financial funds for social security and the financial statements of the financial funds for social security, as well as the closure of the implementation of the budget of the separate public funds, on the basis of statutory requirements. The main objective of our final audit is to support Parliament in its decision-making on the admissibility of the bill and to strengthen transparency and accountability in the management of public funds. This time, too, we have sought clarity and user-friendly editing to ensure that the audit findings presented in the Court's report can be widely used. The methodology for checking closure accounts has been established in accordance with the relevant legal requirements in order to give an informed opinion on the implementation of the budget as a whole on the basis of the audit procedures used. Our audit thus gives a comprehensive and objective view of the reliability of the data contained in the. The State Audit Office has, therefore, been using statistical sampling methods in the course of the audit of the accounts for decades, and has acted in accordance with its rules. Accordingly, it drew its determination to the entire crowd on the basis of the checks of the selected items. The method of sampling ensured that the SAO could provide an informed assessment of the reliability of the data contained in the bill for all relevant areas of closure. Dear Parliament, During the audit of the implementation of the 2018 central budget, the State Audit Office found that the budgetary institution system ensured the regularity of public finance management in 2018, and that the draft law on the closure of 2018 was well-founded and reliable. The planned total revenue of the central sub-schemes of public finances in 2018 was HUF 18 751.4 billion, the total expenditure was HUF 20 112.1 billion and the deficit was HUF 1360.7 billion. The total revenue and expenditure of the central subsystem was HUF 19 922.5 bn in 2018 and HUF 21 374.1 bn in 2018 and its actual deficit was HUF 1451.6 bn. [[9.40]] In the course of the audit of the closure accounts, the State Audit Office found that the implementation of the 2018 central budget was carried out in accordance with legal requirements, the deficit and public debt, thanks to favourable macroeconomic conditions, including a significant increase in GDP, were in line with the legal requirements. The lack of payment of the central subsystem showed a significant decline both nominally and in proportion to GDP compared to the previous year. Thus, in 2018, the deficit was around 21 percent lower than in the previous year, representing 3.4 percent of GDP, compared to 4.7 percent in 2017. Given the current driving forces that are heating the Hungarian economy, we cannot call the trends in budgetary processes completely unexpected. Our macroeconomic analysis of budgetary developments in 2018, which supported the work of the Fiscal Council, projected the positive impact of GDP growth on budget implementation. However, perhaps after 2014 the election year is 18, when a kind of electoral cycle has always been perceived in the previous 20 years, and it has been rightly challenged by economists and more sensitive stakeholders to the economic environment. This did not happen in 2014 and thus in 18, as the main macro-processes of decreasing deficit and the decline in the debt path clearly do not justify this deviation. However, it is worth noting that a number of demand-enhancing government measures have also supported the strengthening of economic growth, which have thus had a positive impact on budgetary processes, so that the external economic environment is not the only factor in action. As a result of the combined measures to increase GDP growth and the efficiency of the economy and tax collection, the total revenue of the central subsystem exceeded the envisaged by 6.2 percent in 2018. At this point, too, I would like to recall and pause for a moment that, despite the new taxes introduced during the year in 2010, tax revenues overall were around HUF 236 billion behind the draft. At that time, the biggest revenue gap was the public's payments and consumption-type taxes. The audit of the 2011 accounts has also led to similar findings, pointing out that the SAO's staff, including those of the National Tax and Customs Office, accounted for HUF 2268 billion in tax and tax revenues, and its impact on the fulfilment of tax revenues. The audit of the 2013 closure accounts has already made clear the need for measures to improve the efficiency of tax collection, which provides a significant part of the revenue side of the central budget, since tax and tax revenues overall were already around HUF 534 billion and 7.2 percent lower than planned appropriations. Compared to this, we are now talking about the fact that, at reduced rates, the planned tax revenues will be exceeded, i.e. the Hungarian model of sustainable whitening works. In recent years, the government has reduced primarily the taxes on employment and work, in line with the Parliament, of course, by increasing year by year, and by overachieving tax revenues compared to planned. It is a very chatty fact that the so-called VAT, which is the difference between VAT levied and, indeed, the general turnover tax that comes into the budget, decreased from around 23 per cent in 2013 estimated by Eurostat to 9 per cent in 2018, as I said, according to the assessment of the European Statistical Office. This figure is better than the EU average and has reached, in fact, Austria. I think that this data alone represents a kind of world summit, but it is certain that it is the most dynamic bleaching among the Member States of the European Union, and this is what Hungary has achieved in a few years, and I think this is also the result and result of a major anti-corruption act and activity. This required a favourable economic environment, of course, but the changing tax policy, the strengthening of the tax collection efficiency of the National Tax and Customs Office, the introduction of new digital tax control and tax collection tools such as the online cash register or EKAER, and online invoicing, and, not least, a significant increase in tax morale among honest and entrepreneurial Hungarian citizens. I am convinced that it is essential for the country's competitiveness to continue the sustainable whitening, because this, as shown by the budgetary and macroeconomic processes of 2018, will dynamic the economy, make the environment predictable and push the room for manoeuvre and the framework of economic operators towards a level playing field. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the course of the audit of the accounts, the State Audit Office revealed irregularities and shortcomings in a total of 38 organisations, typically in the fields of accounting, bookkeeping, reporting, controls related to commitments and payments, as well as information obligations. Although they did not affect the reliability of the expenditure and revenue data provided in the 2018 draft closing act, in order to establish and strengthen prudent management of public funds and public assets, the SAO sent a letter to the managers concerned to correct deficiencies and irregularities. Pursuant to the Court of Auditors Act, which entered into force in 2011, in order to eliminate illegal practices detected during the audit and the misuse or wasteful use of property, a so-called awareness-raising letter was sent to the head of the audited organisations. The head of the audited organisation shall assess the information contained in the notice letter within 15 days, take the appropriate action and notify the State Audit Office of the measures taken. The Court of Auditors may, in the framework of a follow-up audit, verify and verify whether the organisation concerned by the call for attention has implemented the action taken. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in order to support Parliament's decision-making work more effectively and effectively, the appendix to our report includes a brief, independent summary assessment of the results of the audit of the accounts of the institutions required to report to Parliament. A summary evaluation of each organisation was carried out with the aim of informing the Members of Parliament about the reliability of the management data contained in the report of the organisation, as the accounts of the organisations also contain information on the organisation's management. Dear Parliament, In recent years, Parliamentary Members and the professional public have been called upon to provide feedback on the deeper context of macroeconomic processes. In view of this, five years ago, we decided to prepare an analysis of the context of the implementation of the budget for that year in addition to our report. We have done this work again this year, and you have received it together with the report, and still have access to the Internet for everyone. The analysis was also submitted to Parliament together with the report, thus fulfilling the task of the SAO Act to support the well-managed state, as the law says, and the work of the Board of Budgets. In our analysis of macroeconomic developments in 2018, we point out that GDP growth in 2018 has allowed Hungary's economic development to move closer to the EU average. [[9.50]] The maintenance of current driving forces and the application of the anti-cyclical policy toolbox to economic conditions are important issues for the sustainability of this process. During the implementation of the budget, the government managed the risks identified by the State Audit Office in 2017 during the opinion of the draft budget law for 2018. In order to neutralise the risks, the available reserves and the savings generated during the year for each expenditure budget and the additional revenue were used. The implementation of the 2018 budget was favourable, as I mentioned, in terms of macroeconomic circumstances. The components of economic growth have changed in a positive direction compared to 17. Household consumption demand continued to be lively, there was a high willingness to invest, and exports continued, especially the growing trend of services. Among macroeconomic development indicators, gross average earnings, net earnings, household savings and stocks of financial assets as well as credit market indicators continued to increase. Together, they contributed to faster economic development than the EU average. The strengthening of economic growth has also been supported by various demand-enhancing government measures. These included government measures to increase employment, simplify the tax system and increase housing support and boost investment. This also has a positive social impact, since this year, too, the scale and proportion of poverty in Hungarian society has been reduced by this economic policy environment. As I have already mentioned, economic growth in 2018 has had a positive impact on budgetary processes. On the revenue side, GDP growth has contributed to an increase in the budget's tax, contribution and other revenue, which is more than planned. In addition, payments in respect of state assets were made in excess of the statutory appropriations. In addition, measures to whiten the economy, including the introduction of an online invoicing system as a new element, a further extension of the tax returns made by the tax authorities, a further extension of the simplified tax options of businesses and the continuation of the reduction measures, wage burdens on the employment side, have contributed to an increase in revenues. In 2018, the decline in the centralisation and redistribution ratio continued. The still 48,5 percent centralisation rate in 2015 decreased to 44,3 percent by 2018. This shows that public finances are increasingly drawing financial resources from economic operators, in addition to maintaining the state's active economic policy-making role. Businesses and households used these resources for their own purposes, which also indirectly contributed to economic growth. This is confirmed by the positive development of the 2018 macroeconomic indicators. In terms of the employment situation and the reduction in the rate of centralisation and redistribution, I would like to highlight a link. Improvements in labour market indicators continued in 2018. Due to the lively demand for labour by businesses and the government measures previously presented, the employment situation has been constantly improved in recent years, and the benefits of this have actually appeared on the employee side, as they have had a margin of manoeuvre in terms of working conditions and wage bargaining, and also in terms of the bargaining of whitening wages. At the same time, the unemployment rate continued to follow a downward trend. The number of economically active populations increased by 28 500 people in 2018 from 4 million to 613 thousand people in 17 years. The value of the activity rate was, in 18, 0.7 percentage points higher than in the previous year. The evolution of employment indicators and unemployment rate indicators, analysed over a longer period of time, follows a continuously improving trend, but the magnitude of the positive shift is decreasing. This shows that it is increasingly difficult to achieve improvements by mobilising the existing labour market reserve. This is why the public bureaucracy reduction programmes launched in 2018 are of great importance, which not only reduce the size of the state and thus increase its efficiency, but also free up a workforce for the competitive sector at a time when labour shortages are already a major growth problem and an obstacle in some sectors. As for the development of the cash flow deficit, the use of Union funds was a decisive factor for 2017. In order to use EU funds, the central budget had to provide HUF 36.5 billion more than planned, and HUF 476,7 billion. In this context, there was a role to be played in achieving revenue and expenditure related to Union grants of a lower than planned value and in achieving a higher amount than the planned return on EU support. The total revenue for EU grants was 71.1 percent of the statutory appropriations, HUF 1415.8 billion. The main reason for this is that the advance-type financing was in the majority, so that the reimbursement of expenditure by the European Commission was only partially made in 2018, and most of it fell to the last month, which brought an uncertain risk factor to the whole year from the perspective of analysts and credit rating agencies. However, the reimbursement to be made in the coming years will increase the revenue of EU grants. The ex-post return on EU funds resulted in an increase of HUF 214.4 billion more than planned, combined with HUF 276.6 billion, which reduced the value of the funds needed for EU funding, contributing to the reduction of the financing burden and risk of the central budget. At this point, it should be pointed out that, in the 2014-2020 EU aid cycle, the speeding up of the payment of EU aid and the advance of government support from domestic sources are countercyclical instruments that have fulfilled the expectations attached to it. Thanks to the measure, the Hungarian real sphere, businesses, will have access to development resources during the period of an economic economic economic activity in 17th, 18th and 19th, which will be able to support the economic growth of the coming years. This was a competitive advantage at regional level and equalised the past cyclicality of EU support policy and the wave of access to finance. On the basis of the European Commission's regularisation of the EU's funds so far advanced by the central budget, significant revenue will be available in the coming years, which will be able to become a reserve in terms of budgetary thinking: fast-track debt resolution, additional expenditure, reduction of deficit. This will be a free space, it can also appear as a countercyclical source of potentially bad economic conditions. This is obviously a very serious result, and in the coming years we will see how effective Hungarian economic policy can make use of it. This represents a kind of security reserve, a buffer for the central budget as a whole. In the financing of public debt, the promotion of internal savings, including retail savings, thus reducing external vulnerability, has contributed to a more predictable economic environment. EU support has had an impact on the liquidity situation of the central budget and investment in this support will serve as a basis for further growth of GDP in the future and will contribute to an increase in the revenue capacity of the central budget. [[10.00]] In recent years, the value of budget residues has increased. However, the impact of the change in the residual regime in 18 years will need to be monitored and assessed in terms of the management of public finances and the development of the cash flow deficit due to the magnitude of the remains. On investment, I would like to draw attention once again to the proper preparation of public and municipal investments. I am convinced that, at a time of economic activity, the State is doing the right thing by curbing, in a sense, its own investment activity, thus not reducing the already limited capacity for construction and other sources of labour, or, in the event of a slowdown in economic growth, by launching sufficiently prepared, precisely planned public investments in a recessive period, it can dynamicise and fuel internal economic processes. I believe that this countercyclical public investment strategy will also be an important economic recovery tool to advance EU funds and strengthen the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. It should be pointed out that, in addition to intensive economic growth, the development of certain factors in 18 highlights important change processes. These include a steady rise in inflation, a slow increase in the number of construction permits issued in the case of the construction sector, a reduction in the external trade surplus and an increase in the rate of imports above export. The effects of these processes have been compensated by the recovery of 18 years and the effects of government measures. However, these processes indicate that in the medium term there have been risks of slowing down current rapid economic growth, which will have a specific task to address. Honourable Members, At the end of my expedition, I would like to draw your attention to another recent report. In recent years, it has been mentioned on several occasions in the closing accounting debates and, listening to this, as President, I ordered that, at the same time as assessing budgetary and macroeconomic developments, the State Audit Office did not refer to trends in the management of state assets, since it was not included in the report, the draft law. However, by listening to these claims, for the first time this year, at the same time as monitoring the implementation of the budget, we have also carried out annual audits of the exercise of ownership rights in respect of the same period of state property, which is also defined by law. Thus, our control of the 18th on 14 October is the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd., the National Land Fund Management Organisation, the State Healthcare Supply Centre and the Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. It covered its activities in relation to the exercise of ownership rights. As regards reporting to Parliament, the audit covered the Minister and his organisation without the wallet responsible for managing the national assets and the Agricultural Ministry. Our audit found that the establishment of regulatory controls on activities relating to the exercise of ownership rights over public property contributed to the proper and accountable exercise of ownership rights by the entities exercising ownership rights. Owners' rights practitioners have carried out the transfer of state-owned property to asset management in compliance with the relevant legal requirements. The state assets transferred to the asset management were registered by the owners' rights practicing organisations, but the accurate and up-to-date monitoring of the value of the property was compromised by the fact that there were deficiencies in the registration of these assets at the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. At the same time, the preservation of state assets in asset management and use was supported by a system of ownership controls. The sale of state-owned real estate was duly made. Owners' rights practitioners have properly performed their activities in relation to the exercise of ownership rights over majority state-owned companies. However, the State Health Services Centre has sometimes not decided on the accounts of companies in accordance with legal requirements or has not taken action to settle losses. Their separation and reporting obligations in relation to the state assets entrusted to it were duly met by the ownership entities, and the valuation and inventory of assets were carried out in order to prepare the 18th report on the assets entrusted to them. The need for transparency was supported by the proper design and operation of the information and communication processes by owners, the publication of their annual budget accounts for the assets entrusted to them. During our audit, we assessed the exploitation of the findings of the Court's discharge check for 2016 by the owners' organisations, and found that the measures undertaken and implemented resulted in an improvement in the transparency of public asset management and a significant reduction in the risks of government asset management compared to 2016. Dear Parliament, I believe that by our report and analysis published on 11 October and forwarded to Parliament and the Committee on Budgets, we have contributed to the favourable budgetary processes and we support Parliament's decision to adopt the closing act. Our work is useful, as our experience contributes to the implementation of a sound and long-term fiscal policy that we hope will bring about sustainable economic growth. Finally, I thank you for the efforts of hundreds of my colleagues in the preparation of the reports and in the audit and analysis work, the government responsible for accounting. To do this, it must be known that this is the most complex audit activity for the Court of Auditors which requires the highest capacity every year. And I wish you a meaningful professional debate. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-24-4	Thank you very much, President László Domokos. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to notary Lajos Szűcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-10-24-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would also like to thank everyone involved in the preparation, implementation and control of the budget, as this is a very serious work. Obviously, in the course of the debate, many people will tell us what they thought about preparing the 2018 budget, and I hope they will also say that we apologize, we were wrong, because when we said that this budget could not be implemented, it was not done in time, it was not planned in accordance with the processes, these siren sounds [[Moore in the opposition benches. Zsolt Gréczy: Siren or siren?]] This draft closing act is in any event contrary, since every sentence that has been said here in the two expoes is about the fact that when the 2018 budget was planned and implemented, it was implemented in accordance with the laws. Moreover, no one can say that the processes that we have planned for the future have not been implemented, and rather, as it will be said, they have been overachieved, which I think we can show as a joint success for all Hungarian citizens. T/7556 on the closure of the 2018 central budget. We have a legislative proposal to get to know the budgetary processes for 2018. [[10.10]] In 2018, Hungary's total national product increased by 5.1 percent, which was far above the projected 4.3 percent increase. All sectors contributed to the large-scale growth, but it is important to point out that the end-2016 wage increase and tax reduction agreement has certainly contributed to the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed wage minimum, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the employer's burden has been significantly reduced. As a result, average earnings increased by more than 10 percent in 2018 compared to the previous year. This greatly improved the financial situation of households as their consumption increased by 4.9 percent. Investment is another pillar of the growth of the national total product. In total, investments in the national economy increased by 17.1 percent, which was significantly higher than the previously estimated 12.9 percent increase. Developments linked to the EU budget cycle 2014-20, the home-building programme and the capacity-building of businesses have played a role in boosting investment activity. Hungarian exports increased by 4.3 percent and imports by 6.8 percent. The external trade balance was able to show a surplus in 2018. The performance of the economy also has an impact on the labour market. In 2018, the number of employees also increased significantly by 1.1 percent. The number of employees in the competition sector increased by 2 percent, while the number of employees in the public sector was able to show a 3 percent decrease. We can say that 4.5 million people are now working and, more importantly, 4.5 million people are taxed in Hungary. This resulted in an employment rate of 69,2 per cent and activity reached 71,9 per cent. The unemployment rate has fallen to 3.7 percent, which is closer to full employment, so those who are looking for work and want to work today have a good chance of finding a job. In the clear opinion of economists, we can no longer talk about unemployment if we reach a level of 3 per cent, but rather about natural fluctuations. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important economic data that people are interested in is inflation. We can say that prices increased by 2.8 per cent on average in 2018, so that inflation was lower than the planned 3 per cent. The rise was mainly due to the increase in food prices, including fruit and vegetables and dairy products. The other reason was the inflationary pressure from the continent due to European economic activity, and the increase in new cars and technical articles. The proportion of gross government debt to the national total product fell to 70,2 per cent by the end of 2018. I would like to highlight this ratio, because if we compare it, it was still 80 percent in 2011. The main strategic objective of the Hungarian government debt management remains to reduce the debt ratio in parallel with increasing the stock of private sovereign debt and reducing the foreign exchange debt ratio. An even more serious breakthrough has been achieved with regard to the foreign exchange ratio. The percentage of foreigners fell from 52 percent at the end of 2011 to 23 percent and from 65 percent to 36 percent. I do not think it is necessary to explain to what extent this reduces the country's foreign exchange exposure and the risk of external vulnerability. As regards the state of public finances in a country, it is also important to talk about the extent of the budget deficit. In previous years, this indicator was only 2.3 per cent compared to the total national product according to the EU methodology. The macroeconomic figures listed above all show that the country's economy did well in 2018, and this has been recognised by international credit rating agencies for a long time. In February of this year, he was classified with one category, the BBB class. our country's credit rating, and a few days ago, just yesterday, another rating of a credit rating agency was announced. As far as I know, we're still expected to release data from a credit rating agency this week. With regard to fiscal policy, it can be concluded that there were significant changes affecting both the revenue and expenditure side in 2018, but this overall did not worsen the lack of a central budget. The revenue from the central budget was higher than the appropriations, most taxes, such as corporate tax, personal income tax, general sales tax, excise duty, small company tax, financial transaction tax... lower than the plan were only observed for a few smaller types of taxes, such as simplified corporate tax or advertising tax. It also had a positive impact on the balance of the budget that the achievement of revenue related to public wealth had almost doubled the planned, with a significant role in the revenue generated by the sale of CO2 quotas being much higher than expected. It is worth taking a look at the extent to which the state has spent money in the cash flow perspective. The state spent 19.1 percent on itself and its operation, 49.1 percent on welfare functions, 17.4 percent on economic functions and 5.6 percent on government debt management. I believe that this type of classification of costs is very useful, since this methodological tool makes the compositions of government sectors in different countries comparable and meaningful. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say a few words about the situation of the municipalities. The central financing of local authorities was carried out under the task-based support scheme established in 2018 and 2013, which was detailed year after year and adapted to the tasks of the local government. In 2018, local authorities managed to generate a total revenue of HUF 4274 billion, which was 12.7% higher than the previous year. The cash flow surplus of the general government local government sub-schemes in 2018 amounted to HUF 249.5 billion. This improvement can be explained, inter alia, by the higher-than-expected local industrialisation tax revenue. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Studying the draft discharge law before us, listening to the opinion of the State Audit Office relating to it, it is necessary to conclude with regard to the year 2018 that the budget adopted has helped families to thrive, more people had jobs, and wages have also increased noticeably. All of these social policy objectives have been achieved without the stability of the budget being shifted or put at risk. In view of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the bill on the closing accounts for 2018. I am convinced that we made a lot of progress in 2018, and Hungary could have been a better, more prosperous country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[10.20]]
u2019-10-24-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Szűcs. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2019-10-24-7	Mr President, Dear House, I was sorry to hear the speakers before me, because there are results in Hungary, there is no doubt that there is a need to talk about them, but there are also many problematic areas, and we have hardly heard of them. We are used to winning reports, even if a well-prepared secretary of state is perhaps the best prepared to sit in this area, with whom we are normally engaged in professional debates. I hope I didn't harm the Secretary of State with this compliment [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I didn't mean to. At the same time, I would also like to point out that, in addition to the usual victory reports, we have now received the lecture that an opposition representative should apologize for this or that. I would like to answer the question of who has to apologize here, but I am trying to justify all this through professional referrals, and then the dear listener, spectator, reader will decide for himself who will have to apologize before a certain historic court. I do not wish to judge in this area, but I share my opinion with you with great respect. With an orthodox, old-fashioned approach to a closing debate, what should we talk about? The state's incomes and expenses have been made, fair and square, and I have an absolute sense of lack of the state's wealth. In terms of the state's wealth, there were, by the way, allocations in the background material, and for that, thanks, but this has not dominated the debate so far, and this has not influenced the expos and, above all, the keynote speaker of my pro-government fellow Member. Similarly, we need to talk about the state's debt, where there have been serious distortions in the pro-government formula, and fourthly about the state's accounting, where we also have a strong sense of deficit. I have to say that the state's wealth, the change of wealth, its growth, its loss in the absence of a national inventory because it is not very difficult to argue so fully. So I fear that the problem of closing accounts will simply be something narrowed down to the basis of the faith and party standing of the Members, on the basis of which, who is able to believe the numbers and statements before us that they are so, we embrace the entire flow chart, and those who doubt such as me will vote against it, presumably. And we'll be right here, let's say, with regard to the examination of GDP data that can be considered compelling. I have said a thousand times that, when measuring the performance of the Hungarian national economy, I do not consider GDP to be the most appropriate data, even if international terminology obviously prefers and mostly uses it, because, in a very extreme example, the temporary recovery of the turnover of undertakers, if more people find themselves dying, will certainly increase GDP. So, obviously, we should put quality indicators in this system. I would have liked to have read strictly about the data limited to the Hungarian national economy. However, in terms of GDP growth, if we look not only at the year 18 but also look at the period 2010-2017, we find that we have raised by 17 percent, which, for the first time, seems to be an impressive 17 percent overall increase, we should say that yes, this is a worthy thing, but if we look at the post-socialist countries and some of the states around us, we find that they are without exception 20-22 percent. So, at regional level, Hungarian performance, unfortunately, and anyone who knows me, knows that I am not a counter-suspector, not an outlier. I wish we could talk about outstanding Hungarian performance, but what we can see is that the Baltic countries and unfortunately Romania have gone by our side in terms of certain indicators, and, in terms of economic development, let's say, we are not playing in a league with the Czech Republic at the moment, and in terms of their approach to Austria, 3 percent came in during the luckier times, and some distance has been observed in even worse times. In sum, it can be said that Hungary is to be examined in a very high-source period when we are discussing this accounts and looking at the previous budgets, and in terms of this abundance of resources, perhaps there will be a common agreement between us if we say that the current Hungarian governments and the current government have simply not begun a fundamental, radical transformation of the structure of the Hungarian economy. I am sure that you can make some cosmetic changes that I will welcome, and I am sure that we will agree on a lot of things, but the Government of Hungary has not started a radical restructuring in a particularly resourceful period, and therefore now, when we see minus 6, minus 7 percent figures from Western Europe and Northern Europe, you will not be able to deny that these negative trends are inevitably spilling into such a exposed economy, inevitably disrupting the existing, much more modest results that I think are undoubtedly there and which this national economy has been able to show in recent years. And we continue to see that in Hungary an incredibly distorted tax policy is embedded in the fact that this economic restructuring cannot begin. After all, Europe's largest VAT rate and almost the smallest corporate tax rate contain distortions which also issue a certificate of the performance of the current Hungarian government. What we see is that this government is talking about a demographic turn of events correctly, and I support it, and I will also vote in favour of its last motion in this direction, if it is in the best interests of the citizens, but ladies and gentlemen, is it joining this picture that the Government of Hungary is still maintaining the 27 percent world record VAT rate for child-rearing articles during such a victory reporting period? How can you talk about a demographic turnaround if you do not exercise this gesture of a few billion forints towards Hungarian citizens and families? I understand that other parts of the family support measures are intended to act and favour, but this is a selective discount, which is typically applied up from the upper middle class. I wish it were as you originally thought, that it would filter down with other social groups, but we haven't found any signs of this screening in recent years. I'm going to go straight to, say, the CSOK institution, which we supported with our vote, not just rhetorically. However, we see that the dedication of the preferential loan mass should not have the same effects as the granting of the aid mass in a preferential form. So what we see is that as long as it was only possible to obtain preferential loans for new real estate, various preferential forms, this could benefit from the upper middle class. What I would like to see is that, in terms of used properties, Hungarian young people, those who begin their lives, who are not a typical living situation, are not able to make a home of themselves, because they cannot do so without financial means. In the same way, there is a painful lack of a rental program. If such a resource situation had arisen and EU funds could have been opened to a rental scheme, then there would have been a need to start and take concrete steps and gestures towards those who are unable to buy their own property, their own home, but a rental form would have helped them a lot. What happened compared to this? and this may not be found in the different backgrounds of the closing account, but it is connected here, as it is meat-stricken. The only way a Hungarian youth, let's say the CSOK, could collect its share of effort, state support for housing savings, has been taken away by the government, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to ask you a specific answer as to what you gave him, so what prospects he gave the young person who had been able to match the CSOK's share with LTP, a state-supported pre-saving formula, with years of work. Instead, there is no discount available on the market now. There, the CSOK for the wealthier, but I could bring it here, although it does not belong to the debate, so I will not go deeper into it, just for a sentence, including the baby shower, which was not received by a young couple who was taking a child from my immediate circle of acquaintance because one of them may have been absent from social security for 25 days when, as a small entrepreneur, he had a dispute about various contributions, and several years ago, he missed a month of contributions, which he would very much like to replace, compensate for, where appropriate, weighing with penalties, but he did not have the opportunity to do so, he was driven away from the institution concerned, as in his order, or more precisely as he should not be in order. So we see systemic problems that exclude large numbers of benefits and keep lucky social classes among the beneficiaries, but we do not want to build Canaan only for them in Hungary. I want everyone who is an honest citizen of this country. And we also see that corporate tax was the other factor I mentioned as one of the keys to the distorted structure. This corporate tax is typically the same as a direct type of tax, the subject and the payer of the tax, and this would give Hungary the opportunity, according to EU rules, to give preference to its small and medium-sized companies and to set higher rates for multinational companies. Compared to this, the opposite process has taken place in recent years. What I cannot distinguish between the Orbán governments and previous governments is an unjustified and permanent discount for multi-company companies. They were able to provide these companies with an amazing amount of discounts, which was completely unjustified. And what we see is that both investments in job creation and, more precisely, subsidies, which can cover the total wage for a certain period of time, for a period of one year and a half or two years, for each job, as well as infrastructure subsidies were not as important factors in bringing in a multi-company production line as you would like to think. [[10.30]] The final result is that the top 12 multi-company companies, which have been examined, will, where appropriate, carry less than 1 per cent of the tax burden in Hungary by weighing all of this with the subsidies granted to them; while in the Czech Republic the same companies will pay more than 18 per cent of the tax. It's an amazing chasm, Mr. Secretary. I understand that the Czech Republic is slowly catching up with the developed world and is playing in a very different club or eating in a completely different cafe than we are. I also understand that these differences are coming down on how a government of all time treats multi-company companies, but I do not consider such an 18-fold gap, Mr Secretary of State, to be explicable, especially if I look at the Hungarian wage level. You guys like to talk about an impressive wage increase, don't you, now you're talking about more than 10 percent. I do not wish to go into the fact that today, not at the time of the budget which is the subject of closure, but at this time, how the level of wages is being pushed up today, let us say, that you have abolished the cafeteria. The employers must have included this in the wage, the cafeteria elements have ceased, and the wages seem to go up, but that unfortunate worker receives the same amount of money. During the period we have discussed, this has not been the typical trend, so let us not be incorrect, let us not project the current problems into the past, but we have to say that the Hungarian net wages can only compete with the also rushing or Lithuanian earnings, compete in recent years, and we have not really been able to get ahead in Europe. We see that Hungarian wages are still among the hosts, both at regional level and at European level, and that if we looked at the Hungarian hourly rates in euro, we would find something quite amazing in the back of Europe. What's wrong with that, Mr. Secretary? I welcome the increase in wages, especially if this would be at the same level of productivity growth, because it would be sustainable. However, I can also see how much a consciously kept low forint price is eating off this increase in wages. I do not want to start from the example of the iPhones, which would be 30-40 thousand HUF cheaper in Hungary at a normal forint price, but from simple imported foods, which appear in a typical consumer basket, Mr. Secretary of State. These are typical imported products and I wish we had everything produced at home, but unfortunately they are not much more expensive because of a consciously kept low forint exchange rate, I do not want to say that thanks to that, rather because of that, and this increase is paid by the Hungarian population, the Hungarian citizens. There can and must be a nominal increase in wages, so I do not want to have what is in this market taken away, but at the same time it must be seen that these things are operating in a system, they must be weighted by the effects of the inflation rate on the one hand, and, on the other hand, by such unjustified, unjustified burdens on imports, I think, how much they will take away from this increase in wages. Here comes the point, Mr Secretary of State, which again arises with regard to multinationals: this government has not been brave enough to examine strategic agreements with multi-enterprises and renegotiate them. That's what I would do, so that's what we would do with Jobbik, we would reopen these chapters, and we would at least conclude the long-term concept of wage levelling according to productivity gains in these areas, so that at least the wages paid here should start slowly as much as possible to the Western average. You have not been able to demonstrate this approach in the last nine years, and this is perhaps the most painful point in Hungary. It is not possible to measure in HUF the absence of young people and family members who have left Hungary because of the inability to make a living or because they simply feel that the possibility of acquiring a single home is political science fiction for them, or public science fiction and unattainable. They cannot give 15 years of their lives to lose these decades or even years in the absence of LTP, without a variety of decent forms of saving simply because of their own 70-square-metre apartment. We also need to say that if we set demographic targets and I welcome the fact that they exist, then they must be supported by actions. So it is not enough for us to declare these goals loudly and in a loud voice during evening's beer, which must be supported in a masculine manner by action, by a rental program, by public support for housing savings, by a home-building program that can settle down to everyone; by radically transforming the VAT system for the benefit of Hungarian citizens, especially if income expectations typically exceed, so the realised revenues exceed the income expectations. This was no longer detected in a year, there is a reserve in this system, so it is not necessary to tax those affected, citizens, but to transform this system. With regard to corporate tax, I am not saying that any corporate tax should be increased immediately. I say that you should think about making a difference between a multi-company and a Hungarian business, and that the discount mass should finally come down in Hungarian businesses. At their last corporate tax incursion, Hungarian companies received an additional 1 percent discount, and multi-company companies are several times more. I think it's talkative. I would also like to say that all of this would be worth something, a fair step in it if public debt management also changed. I understand that they highlight the indicator that the market typically uses and look at the public debt-to-GDP ratio, but I remember that by 2010, you were here, too, many of you, and I, too, typically heard that the Hungarian economy will start to outgrow public debt on the basis of the Fidesz structure. [[Dr. János Harghitai: That's right.]] Do you remember this expression "grow out"? The annual repayment burden will be lower and lower, and the thousand billion-dollar burden will eventually start to evaporate and the resources released can be used for meaningful purposes. The situation has changed since then so much that the structure of the public debt has undoubtedly improved, and I think there is a common understanding between us, the percentage of which has shown a slight decline in certain periods, but this debt burden has steadily increased nominally, by around a thousand billion per year, and Hungary has not been able to get rid of the annual repayment burden of a thousand billion forints. However, let us consider that if only half of this thousand billion were available as a free-to-use resource each year, it would be possible to carry through a rental program or a health upgrade programme per year. So these are the amazing indicators. In ten years, nothing has changed at systemic level for an incredibly resourceful period. There was an expression of the year of families, when we heard in the victory report that not only wages had increased, GDP and public debt and so on, but it was also a year of families. I would like to remind you that in the year of the so-called families, more than a thousand Hungarian families were cut off from their homes, the children were in several cases taken away by social services, and these former credit victims still complain that the state, notary faculty, abusive executives and banks, financial institutions together legally robbed these people, showing on paper debts that, if you do so in a village, you will be taken away for loan sharking and placed on the bench of the accused. This did not happen here, but, at the same time, crowds of people, accompanied by abuses of the enforcement system, were left unwarranted on the streets. Many times, I have scraped you to appear at such illegal evictions, or even to appear together. Unfortunately, they haven't complied with this invitation once, but I beg you, at least for the years of families, let's be more careful, because the tragedy of these people cannot be silenced, they are not barcodes in a line of planning or in a budget, in a closing account. These are living people, also with family planning goals. They probably would have had more children than they could if someone had helped them out of this situation. A market type forinting is not helpful to them. You can see that evictions are still going a thousand times. My request is that, at least in this regard, if not the subject of this debate, by the immediate announcement of the eviction moratorium, we give these people air until their fate is resolved. I must also say that the negative effects of 27 percent VAT, the negative effects of consciously weak forints, are simply undermining the statistical results you have been talking about. We must say that inflation does not move exactly as it was said, so the effects of this can undermine not only the increase in wages, but also the damage resulting from that exchange rate. But the most important ones would obviously be demographic targets, so I have to say that it is very difficult to talk about the launch of an increase in the population in Hungary in the current circumstances, at least the rate of fall should slow in the coming decades. Mr State Secretary, the unfortunate experience that the relevant indicators, i.e. not only the number of live births, the number of deaths, but now the fertility index has also begun to deteriorate, has unfortunately also occurred here after a temporary increase that I welcome. [[10.40]] We should learn from these signs to you, and we should learn from them. At least in this area, party policy considerations should not be so dominant and a public agreement should be reached, a public agreement that all governments will observe, and even the Fundamental Law could have something to do with it, and I am not against it at all. But what you can see is that, while all the existing indicators on the demographic front are deteriorating, what the government is doing is making the same style of victory reports, it's doing a success propaganda, and I wish the numbers weren't. They don't justify you. I don't expect an immediate increase in live births because it would be unprofessional. Although a secretary of state told us this week not to engage in professionalism in his own expression; he will translate this into Hungarian, I would nevertheless like to take a professional approach. So it is not necessarily the demographic profession that those who are waiting for an explosive rise in the number of live births. We look forward to the slowing down of the crash, as we also see mortality figures, but this requires an increase in fertility rates and benefits for social groups from whom they expect this explosion. For this, Mr State Secretary, the rent-apartment programme requires housing savings, and this requires a comprehensive, long-term settlement of Hungarian wages. Once again, not by eliminating the cafeteria, the employer integrates this cafeteria into the wages, so the cafeteria is lost, the wage is a woman, and you're on the news telling us that the wages have increased. You can see that this is actually a fake card game. That's not honest. I would like to see, in the next closing debate, or perhaps two years later, when the current processes shape the results of that time, we can sincerely welcome the shifts that are positive. But I can't do that with winning reports. In answer to the original question, so who should be forgiven: I feel that those who sacrificed this decade of the future in Hungary did not use this springing period properly, they betrayed some of the young Hungarians, from an economic point of view it is certain, but it is still reversible. If your intentions are sincere and you put forward good suggestions here, you can count on us. Otherwise, if this eating and eating of the future continues, our critical eyes and voices will be here until the last moment. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-10-24-8	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-10-24-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President of the Court of Auditors. I think that when my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, said that, perhaps, in connection with the closure of the 2018 budget, opposition representatives could apologize for the fact that, at the time, during the adoption of the budget, they said a few things about the budget when he expected this apology, of course he did not mean it, because this role does not allow it. Obviously, opposition representatives also make their critical comments during the closing debate which are completely natural of them. This is what we have heard from Daniel Z. Carpathian. It's not like they don't have ammunition when they criticize budget or budgetary processes. We don't think what we're doing is perfect the way it is. After all, the accounts and the budget are about numbers, and we talk about numbers carefully, because it is possible to say something bigger than any number. It is not easy, they also do so, Members, there are results. But let's look at a CEE comparison: we have results. We all know that, so we don't think that what's on the table right now is the most wonderful thing you can imagine. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I am calm!]] But the real, realistic comparison is, and I'll try to do that several times to see where we're from and where we're going. I always note that Central and Eastern European comparisons are important, because this is about the group of countries whose members have experienced the same history as us, so such an outlook is also useful. When we do this, I will always tell you what you know, of course, that we are the only country that has inherited such huge mountains of debt from before the regime change that these countries do not carry, and we will certainly carry the burden of this for decades. I liked the approach that Mr President of the Court of Auditors has taken, the historic approach to reaching back to practically 1848 and later, when the legislation at that time established the budgetary right of the Parliament, including the role of the then audit body, the State Audit Office of today. I also like the view of the role that I have been experiencing for years now from the State Audit Office of the State and perhaps more and more, that it expresses its own position in the course of a budget or budget closing, that it not only speaks of narrow numbers, that it not only strives to comply with the minimum of law, but that the President also has social policy thoughts in his thoughts, and, if he likes it, takes a position on the draft law when adopting a closing statement, that it can also be seen from him that his institution, let us say, suggests to the Parliament. In my opinion, this view of role can only be approved. Since a budget year alone is difficult to evaluate, it is important to examine where we started and where we came from in the course of the 2018 evaluation. This gives me the opportunity to refer back not only to the laws of 1848 that you did, Mr. President, so I will not do it, but to our Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law is born at a time when we want to radically break up with the processes that marked budgetary thinking and which have brought the country into complete bankruptcy by 2010. When we created the Fundamental Law, it finally became a massive public finance chapter, eight sections, a very decisive part of the Fundamental Law. I am convinced that the ideas expressed in the Fundamental Law and the constraints that we deliberately drew upon ourselves do not allow us to think of economic policy and budgetary policy as our predecessors did, because it was easy to describe: if there is a wealth of money in the world economy, let us reach out to others' money, spend it, and then there will be something. That was about the essence of budgetary policy in your time. As a result, the first Orbán government, let's say 56 percent of its public debt-to-GDP ratio, managed to get this up to 80 percent, and, yes, we are still moaning and moaning for a long time. I'm telling you right now, there's no other option but to grow out of this sovereign debt, if you will. Obviously, we could also think that the extra resources produced would be used to repay public debt to a much greater extent, but this would take away opportunities for growth. So I think that the government is on the right track here, and I consider it a result that, in this period, from 2010 until the 2018 budget, the debt-to-GDP ratio is 70.2 percent and started from 80. In less than ten years, 10 percentage points have been reached. These are good trends and, obviously, this can continue. But staying with the Fundamental Law for a few reasons, as I have mentioned, the Fundamental Law requires the government to manage a balanced, transparent and sustainable budget. The Fundamental Law also states that public funds must be managed in a transparent and public structure. It therefore requires, and all these issues can be examined and made available by the State Audit Office, that the Finance Act and the Final Accountancy Act, i.e. the Budget Implementation Act, be drawn up in the same structure, be transparent and contain revenue and expenditure items in reasonable detail. The SAO makes a lot of statements on this, and I quote only the most important ones, because as Members, we have to consider them. The State Audit Office states in its statement to Members that the data contained in the discharge act are reliable, the 2018 discharge is realistic. This statement is made by the Court of Auditors. He also says that the Ministry of Finance has drawn up this law in a proper structure and in the right content, I would add, at the right time, and that is how we can now negotiate this draft. [[10.50]] The State Audit Office also notes that the budgetary institution system, i.e. the entire institutional system, has ensured the regularity of public finance management. These are all fundamental laws, so they are constitutional requirements. These were formal approaches, but obviously very important. If we get to the content issues, we can have a substantive debate here, which gives me the opportunity to look back at the problematic period, and we appreciate 2018 in the light of where we started and where we got from. And if we look at this, we can conclude that, despite all the problems that you may rightly raise in relation to a specific issue, the 2018 budget year is the best budget year compared to 2010. The macro numbers confirm that. This was achieved by 2018, because since 2010, the Prime Minister's thinking about the budget and economic policy has remained unchanged. In 2018, the government wanted to keep the deficit low and kept it low. It was important for him to reduce public debt by referring back to the Fundamental Law, of course, this is also a basic statutory requirement, to increase competitiveness, to increase employment and to strengthen the country's growth potential. With regard to the deficit, it can be concluded that the deficit was planned to 2.4 percent in 2018 and reached 2.3 percent. When I look back at where we started, let us remember one thing, what deficit targets the Socialist Government has planned for the budget, the reality has always been completely different, because the deficit has disappeared regularly. Of course, it doesn't go away on its own, but they allowed these processes to evolve, resulting in a drastic increase in public debt compared to the first Orbán government. I consider it to be a result that in 2018, this discharge law was able to account for the fact that, in proportion to GDP, the government debt was reduced to 70,2%. I am sure that the agreement between the government and the various players in the economy adopted at the end of 2016 was a very important moment in budget management and economic policy thinking in recent years. We never dreamed before that we would ever be able to do that. We have now reached agreement with economic operators for several years in advance. This represents a predictable environment for economic operators and results can be achieved in current budgets and in current accounts. The result of this agreement is that wages are increasing, obviously due to the decisions of employers, as they can certainly expect the government to reduce their tax burden accordingly. That's the point of this agreement. As a result, as economic operators have a predictable economic policy environment, their willingness to invest in the 2018 growth figures is increasing, and the government's goals have increased and employment is increasing. Obviously, thanks to the agreement, average wages were able to grow by 10 percent, which is an incredibly good result, although similar things could be achieved in the coming years. It will be difficult, in fact, to achieve this permanently, but I think that this 10% increase is a remarkable, good result. Overall, I can say that by the end of 2018, we were already in the sixth quarter when the growth rate of the economy was above 4 percent. Within the EU, 2018 has brought the third highest rate of growth, which we can be proud of. Dániel Z. Kárpát did not dispute it either, and Mr Secretary of State said that this increase is now the result of a much healthier economic structure, so that this growth rate is the result of the joint performance of several sectors. It is very important that 2018 was a budget year when our growth was less stimulated and even curbed by external factors, and there were already negative developments in the international economy, but we were able to produce this growth. We planned to grow to 4.3 percent on a scale, and we managed to achieve this to 5.1 percent. It may be questionable why we are talking about GDP figures. We are talking about this because the world measures the country's performance in GDP numbers, and if I just say this number, it is not a question of what the Secretary of State said, and I just confirmed that this is, if you will, our most successful fiscal year and its closing date. The country's internal factors also contribute significantly to this growth. This is well described by the fact that household consumption was able to increase by 4.9 percent in 2018. And the other thing is very important: once again, what I said about our six-year agreements comes back. A predictable economic environment, national investment increases by 17.1 percent instead of the planned 12.9 percent. So we can talk about a significant growth and investment surplus. A lot of things are involved in this, obviously also the clever use of EU funds. We were determined to secure a large part of these funds for the economy. I refer here to a factor, the home creation programme, which has had a significant impact on national investment, but also on the growth of businesses' own capacity; so when the company says that I have a future in this Hungarian market, I want to invest, I want to grow, because the government's economic policy makes it possible. And, of course, first, the better Member criticized this, obviously, by factors that are involved in making Europe's lowest corporate income tax pay to entrepreneurs who are established here. This is also a factor that encourages investment. Exports increased by 4.3 percent in 2018, and imports increased by 6.8 percent. We can still say that the external trade balance continued to show a surplus in 2018, although it was a declining surplus, as before. We also understand from these comments that this is a falling surplus, but still a surplus. Employees are always at the heart of our social policy thinking. The Orbán government started in 2010 with a clear image of society and not only wanted to be an active government, but also showed itself as a real government. This shows itself very well at all times in what employment indicators we inherited in 2010 and where we have reached today. Only in 2018, the number of employees increased by 1.1 percent, with a 2 percent increase in the competition sector and a 0.3 percent decrease in the public sector. In particular, the number of public workers is decreasing. So the economic policy thinking works that temporarily, as long as families are in trouble, as long as unemployment is very high, we give crutches to poor individuals who have not worked for decades, in a work-based society in some way. Public employment is not the most wonderful thing in the world, but it is a lot compared to nothing, and we have now come to the point of practically running out of public workers because they are sucked up by the normal labour market. In 2018, 4.5 million people were employed, with a corresponding unemployment rate of 3.7 percent. I could refer again to where we started: we could report unemployment figures of 10% or more than 10%, and this is 3.7 percent. Today, there is a shortage of workers in many parts of the country, seeking and hunting for labour. Obviously, behind the year 2018's relatively good employment results, the effectiveness of the OSH action plans is also there, which could be discussed separately. [[11.00]] At the level of the draft, inflation was planned at 3 per cent, which was achieved at 2.8 per cent, so it was more modest than we planned. Yes, I can also mention what affects people in the first place, because perhaps it is less the car, although the car, because obviously all families use cars, so the increase in the price of cars is not the exciting issue, but rather the increase that can be mentioned here in terms of vegetables and fruit in food prices, in terms of certain dairy products. I told you about the government debt at the beginning of my speech, and here I am only confirming that in 2011 Hungarian government debt was 80 per cent in proportion to GDP, and in 2018 it was 70.2 per cent. Let us never have a tight ten years worse, let us reduce our public debt to this extent, then we will really outgrow these terrible burdens that the country has been carrying, and unfortunately it will have to carry for a long time. Dániel Z. Kárpát also mentioned the change in the internal structure of the public debt, it is important that the government did a great deal for it, in 2011, there was a 53 percent foreign exchange ratio, which decreased to 23 percent in 2018, and foreign nationals as carriers of the public debt fell from 65% to 36 percent. So these are very important internal movements. These good economic policy indicators, which the country was able to deliver in 2018, of course, as the Secretary of State said, gave the country opportunities, and, obviously, among the options, I also highlight first of all family policy measures, because this is what best shows the government's social policy thinking. Obviously, I accept even the criticism that the right-wing lead speaker said: it is possible to approach a series of family policy measures by saying that there were evictions, and how badly it affects the family in question, no doubt, it is, if there is one, it is more than what it should be, but in a closing act, in implementing a budget, it is important to talk about the big numbers, and if we talk about the big numbers in relation to the year of families, then the measures concerning VAT are important. Not only does it have to be said that 27 percent of the upper VAT rate is true, but we made decisions concerning the poorest people every year and in 2018 when we reduced this 27 percent VAT rate to 5 percent; what they are, I will not mention them now in the hope of time management. Furthermore, in the context of home creation, HUF 10 million is a one-time option for families, the construction of preferential loans, the reduction of mortgage loans in the event of an increase in the number of children, the extension of maternity allowances to Hungarian mothers who do not raise their children within the country. It is very important to enrich the institutional system that surrounds families, every indicator tells us that it is not only about what savings we provide to families in money, or what kind of support we give to a family that directly affects the family's wallet, but also about the institutional system that surrounds families. Being small, I refer to the nursery environment as a small child. Imposable are the numbers the government could spend and want to spend in the future on cradle development, and I could continue the line. Clearly, the family is not just young people and active parents, so it is important to think about the other member of the family, the pensioner. It is good that pensions increased by 3 percent in 2018, and the Secretary of State also made comparisons in his exposé, so he was able to assess how the real value of pensions has increased over the last few ten years. We were able to maintain the women's 40-year-old program, and so on and so forth. So much for family support as an opportunity. Normal budgetary management should also be normal in time, so we always spend carefully, even during the year. At the end of the year, we had the opportunity to decide on an expenditure of HUF 184 billion that the government was able to finance, I think, important public tasks at the end of the year, certain national political tasks, churches, sport, and so on and so forth. One word as one hundred: I join in what the Secretary of State said, because I also believe that the social policy thinking that we have consistently represented since 2010 is based on a rigorous fiscal policy, and that everything that we may have achieved in our career policy, and of course you are always debating, is based on this. The Orbán government has been one of the strongest policies for decades now is fiscal policy, and the success of fiscal policy, contrary to what has happened before, is the basis for everything. And I think, and I confirm that in 2018, we can say that this successful budget year, which was the most successful year for growth, was also a successful budget year. It should be a warning to us that we were able to achieve these results in 2018 in a negative external environment. It seems certain that the years to come will not be such that the opportunities of the Hungarian economy will be stimulated by the external environment, so we need to look even further for the opportunities to stimulate our internal reserves: different action plans for the economy and further positive decisions for families, which will still help us maintain the very nice growth that we have achieved in recent times, or at least reduce the decline. Mr Secretary of State, I also congratulate you and your apparatus on your work, because it is obviously quite a part of this, and we thank the President of the Court for his inspiring sentences. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-24-10	Thank you very much, Congressman János Harghitai. I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-24-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard the words of Fidesz or KDNP in praise of the social policy that Fidesz has been pursuing in recent years. We have a very different view of this, and we see Hungary quite differently, because the social philosophy that Fidesz represents is a completely distorted philosophy of society. It shows that what a community makes available to the state is then distributed, and it shows that privileged layers are far better off, and those who have fewer have less; we know the words of John Lazarus. About this is reflected in the budgetary policy of the last few years, and this is reflected in the 2018 budget, which we are discussing. Nearly two and a half years have passed since this budget was negotiated and adopted by the Parliament, I said two and a half years ago that this is the election budget of Fidesz, which is based on injustice and corruption. I have said that the budget for injustice and corruption must be rewritten in order to bring justice and stop fidesz corruption. The MSZP Group proposed a total budget transfer of some HUF 774 billion in order to provide more money for health, education and social affairs. You disagreed with us at the time, you voted against these proposals, and this current bill, the closing report, is proof that the budget for 2018 was indeed an election budget, because they spent amazing amounts on government propaganda, prestige investments, stadiums, support for pro-government cities, they did not feel sorry for the money. At the same time, despite the fact that the Fidesz power has collected an unprecedented amount of tax from the Hungarian population, from businesses, it was not used for the benefit of the Hungarian people, not for the benefit of the community. Health, education and the social sphere not only operate in underfunded but also in emergency situations, as daily operating conditions are increasingly difficult to ensure. This is exactly the mirror I mentioned in my speech when discussing the budget, which shows what I said about how a community uses the money it gives it, the taxes it gives it. For you, propaganda, stealable public money, prestige investments, Borkai entertainments were important. [[11.10]] On the other hand, our parents, our grandparents' health, livelihoods, the education of our children, the provision of their future, and the help of our countrymen in difficult situations are the most important. I'm sorry that you're often funny about different comments, but this is a certificate for you, and this budget is a disgrace to you. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the government, we could listen to Péter Benő Banai, on behalf of the State Audit Office, László Domokos, the Fidesz lead speakers, and everyone boasted how good macro numbers are, such as the development of public debt. According to the bill, Hungarian government debt decreased to 69 percent of GDP from 71.9 percent in 2017. But let's stop here for a moment, because the 2017 discharge law was 72,9 percent and not 71,9 percent, and the data published on the State Debt Management Centre's website show a very different figure, as the 2017 government debt number, 72,9 percent, and the government debt was not 69 percent of GDP, but 70,2 percent of GDP, as indicated by the State Debt Management Centre, and if I heard correctly, then Mr. State Secretary has already used these numbers in his expozee. Then I don't understand why the law doesn't include these numbers. So the Members of Parliament, the Hungarian people, are fooled here too, because the government debt rate is higher than what is included in the bill. Not to mention that the European Statistical Office published a statement three days ago about which the Hungarian National Bank's foundations have actually forgotten to give news: the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank have regained their public money character, as it has declared the funds of the foundation to be part of the government system, which we see, under the leadership of the curators and decision-makers of the Foundation György Matolcsy was not exactly used as public money, as it has obtained media construction, bank purchase, the delivery of non-procurement orders for friends, and it has also come to the conclusion that Hungarian government debt is financed in a prohibited way, because it is quite clear that the sovereign debt purchased from foundation money has been financed in a prohibited way. I think it was also an unfair step, not to mention how these hundreds of billions of forints were wasted and spent on enriching friendly businesses. This statistical statement shows that government debt figures should be increased by 0.4 percentage points for 2017 and 0.3 percentage points for 2015, 2016 and 2018, which affects deficits, so that the budgets of recent years are not based on real figures. I also said that in the budgetary debates. In 2015, when the Secretary of State Bence Tuzson told us that there was illegal monetary funding here, we began to explore the dirty transactions of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, and unfortunately we had to see that all that money had enriched your background system, served the interests of the octopus-like state corruption network that had been built, and that we could see signs of it either in Győr or unfortunately every day. Ladies and gentlemen, Returning to the bill before us, 2018 has indeed brought a record year in terms of tax revenues. This sounds good in the country of tax reductions or in the case of the government of tax reductions, as you use this term. Well, in this case, we must not listen to what the Prime Minister says, but what he is doing, because the Hungarian people have never been taxed as much as in 2018. Personal income tax collected 2100 billion HUF, 260 billion more from the population than in 2017. The tax revenue is 191 billion HUF, which is 10 percent more than in 2017. VAT revenue was HUF 3928 billion, excise duty HUF 1112 billion, financial transaction tax, this new tax, which you introduced, was HUF 233 billion in 2018. The most important question is, if you have managed to introduce such an incredible record amount of taxes, what the government spent it on. We might think that if the economy goes, we have revenue for the budget, then we have money to improve health and social care, improve education, primary, secondary and higher education institutions, improve the local government system, help local societies, help small areas outside the attraction area of modern cities, reduce territorial inequalities and help people living in poverty and social exclusion. We might think that now the government will finally do something to stop or reduce the further division of society and, in its economic policy, Hungary's further fall from the countries of the region. Unfortunately, we can see that's not what happened. Social inequalities have increased steadily, three million people live below the minimum living age, pensioners' income poverty has doubled since 2010. Old people receive a pension increase of less than actual inflation, so they basically lend to the government for months, while food prices are much more expensive than average inflation. The gross minimum wage in Hungary remains the fourth lowest among the Member States of the European Union, but at the same time we have the lowest tax burden on Belgium. For the period since 2010, the public burden measured in proportion to GDP has increased from 37.5 per cent to 39.2 per cent and the tax system has changed in the interest of the rich. One-key personal income tax leaves 400 billion a year, and this unfair system was maintained in 2018. Meanwhile, taxes on low-income families have increased, the minimum wage tax has been abolished and the VAT rate is the highest at EU level. The tax burden on people living on wages, in particular on minimum wages and guaranteed minimum wages, was among the highest in 2018 not only within the European Union but also in the OECD region. Hungary's competitiveness has been reduced. It was very funny to note that Hungary is already the 24th most competitive Member State in the European Union. It is true that Romania has also left Hungary, but we can say that all the countries of Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and the Baltic countries have outrun it in the World Bank's competitiveness ranking; not to mention the level of corruption. The Competitiveness Report itself highlighted three areas. One is the catastrophic state of health. Life expectancy has been examined, which is the lowest in Hungary, so simply the tragic state of health, the health emergency has a significant impact on Hungary's competitiveness. The other area of education is that there are not enough qualified professionals and workers in Hungary, and this is not only due to emigration, but also to the tragic state of the education system. We hear in a row how many places teachers are missing, how many have left the field, how many have just left the country, but as a practicing father, I know exactly what it means when there is no chemistry teacher, or when the mathematics teacher goes to have children, and instead they bring an instructor who can't even meet the children's expectations. Well, who would take a job like this at a payday like this? You said that you raised the wages of teachers by 50 percent, but you tried to get the last 5 percent in a way that didn't reach the Hungarian teachers. It can be said that today a beginner educator receives less than a few thousand forints more than the guaranteed minimum wage for a skilled workforce. Why would a young man take such a job? The third area is corruption, where Hungary's corruption perception has deteriorated significantly. [[11.20]] This indicator has improved everywhere in neighbouring countries, Romania has already preceded us, Hungary is the only one where this indicator has deteriorated significantly. I mentioned health care, medical migration, I could mention hospital infections; and then, last but not least, there is one important aspect: this is the euro-forint exchange rate. I do not wish to quote Prime Minister's earlier statements, where he spoke of the fact that a Prime Minister should only return his mandate if the euro exchange rate goes above 300. Well, he didn't do that. But let's not just look at how weak the forint is, but what the consequences are. Compared to those working in other EU Member States, the value of Hungarian people's salaries has deteriorated by almost 25 percent. If we look at the neighbouring countries, this ratio has improved somewhere, it has deteriorated, but to this extent the national currency has not weakened anywhere, only in Hungary, and unfortunately this has a price drive, we have to buy more expensive products from lower wages and pensions in shops, and unfortunately this has the effect. I also mentioned the teaching quite amazingly, that according to the 2017 surveys, more than 200,000 young Hungarians did not study and did not work in Hungary. This figure continued to grow in 2018 with your blessing, some 100,000 of them in the rest of their lives probably can't even get to work, they don't have adequate qualifications, or if they do, then all they have is community service, because you pushed these young people out of Hungarian education at 16 years of age, without any professional qualifications, often with the difficulty of reading and writing. Their minimum support will therefore be imposed on those who are able to work. With this humiliating situation, Hungary is in the last third of the EU rankings with a 13.3 percent ratio, and the situation is worse in only nine countries. It is unacceptable for us that the government has still not been able to provide a solution to the debt of health institutions after nationalisation, to the long-term debt management of health institutions, but instead to adopt budgets to keep hospitals in constant indebtedness. This solution is clearly capable of curbing the costs of hospitals, but it is not at all capable of creating transparent, reliable and sustainable health care. It is unacceptable that the health government has not modernised the financing of hospitals, has not fully reviewed the minimum conditions, has not slowed down the emptying of the GPs, which now affects hundreds of thousands of people and entire regions. It has not provided adequate resources for home dentists to maintain their practice normally, it does not provide adequate wage increases, it does not provide professional respect for health workers, it keeps health wages around national average wages, and our health workers deserve much more. As a consequence, the number of unfilled health jobs increased in 2018 compared to previous years. These are shortcomings, all of which have contributed to the fact that the Hungarians today consider health care to be the country's biggest problem, since Hungary not only spends little on health care, but also the use of health resources is not effective. Of course, you can rely on the nominal increase in the amounts spent on health and education over the last few years, but you have to see that if extra indicators, extra tax revenue, are already advertised with a big chandelier here, how much Hungary spends on health and education in proportion to GDP, and if you compare it, it does not reach the European average, but it does not reach those rates in the neighbouring countries either. So that is the reason why the health system is underfunded, the education system is underfunded, and you are playing with nothing but the health of Hungarian people and our future, the knowledge of our children. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's see what all this revenue has gone to. If we look at public finances according to functions, we can see the following: when the 2018 budget was set up, the government intended 54,2% of public finances for welfare functions, health, education and social purposes. We also said that this ratio was less than in 2010, because it was 61.2 percent at the time, but from the current law, from the closing accounts, we can see that this ratio fell below 50 per cent, barely exceeding 49 per cent. So, despite more revenue for the budget, the surplus has been spent by the Fidesz government, not on welfare functions, not on health care, not on education and not on social support, and it has strengthened us in the belief and knowledge that Fidesz does not care about health care, education, and people living in poverty and hard lives. However, the spending rate of the functions of public operations has become higher, which has been saved on welfare expenditure, not on themselves. In May 2017, the government accounted for 17.1 percent, but in closing accounts it was 19.1 percent, which has increased by 5 percentage points since 2010. So, not only did they save on government functions, they didn't save on the operation of the state, they're spending a lot more on it. Obviously, relatives and friends need jobs, and this has to be financed, but the sad thing is that Hungarian taxpayers have to pay for this with a large amount of tax revenue. So the Orbán government is spending more on you. The question is, why aren't there enough officials in government windows to spend it on, not on, like, a lot of consultants? Why there isn't enough money to raise the salary of state employees fairly. But we can see that propaganda is far more important than the appreciation of civil servants, officials, even in wage increases, and it is more important that the functions of the state work, for example, in government windows, to carry out the task that people expect us to do. Overall, economic functions accounted for 17.4 percent of expenditure, one percentage point lower than the 2017 share, but still more than in 2010, by 5 percentage points. Expenditure on environmental protection was also achieved by half a percentage point lower than in the previous year due to the exit of the EU's development and the fall in this type of municipal expenditure. I would also like to draw attention to expenditure on the management of public debt. This represented 5.6 per cent of total expenditure in the reference year, which increased significantly by 0.6 per cent over 2017, i.e. expenditure related to the management of public debt. This means, therefore, that the economy is growing, it also means that the economy is growing, but also that the government of tax reductions is collecting more money from people every year with its benefits and effects focused only on a priority area, while elsewhere, the government continues to make virtually austerity. I would like to emphasise once again that I cannot say this enough: education, health and social security. Here we could hear the amount of money that was available for church investments for nearly HUF 100 billion, for the Hauszmann plan, this renovation of the Buda Castle was still worth HUF 15 billion, for football stadiums more than HUF 15 billion, for the Liget project, in which I am very confident that the will of the Budapesters will prevail, HUF 35 billion, and the government's much-spoken government propaganda consumed HUF 28 billion, even though nearly HUF 100 billion is being spent on public television with Hungarian taxpayers, where news is constantly being forged, and where Parliamentary Members could not enter, and where Hungarian parliamentary representatives were abused, were consumed by this non-sexisting activity. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, you will obviously not be surprised, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the adoption of the bill. Last year's budget, thanks to government policy, was once again implemented in an opaque way, and I referred here to a different interpretation of the figures, as it has been amended several times compared to the one originally adopted; by regulation, by circumventing Parliament, appropriations have been transferred in countless cases, thus using funds in a different way than their original purpose. This exercise needs to be changed. [[11.30]] It is also unacceptable for us to have a fidesz policy on the basis of which the proportion of spending on welfare expenditure is constantly decreasing every year. It is alarming, as the state is increasingly relocating to the economy, the friendly oligarchs are gaining control over the most important sectors and are being paid out of taxpayers' money. And it's absolutely amazingly irresponsible, the way the Fidesz government doesn't care about the structural problems, the real social problems. We can see that domestic education and health care are maintained only by the commitment and vocation of those working in it. However, the government is only interested in spending Hungary's financial resources on prestige investments, stadiums, propaganda and church subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the future. The process that started with the opposition forces' alliance on 13 October has taken a new level and may lead to: [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Budget 2018!]] In time, really, decisions for Hungary and the interests of the Hungarian people will be made here in the National Assembly. This also applies to the budget. To make money for the future of our children and for the safe old age of our parents, to reduce social differences, and not to determine the future of a child by itself from the social background of his family. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: You're not talking about what's on the agenda.]] However, such and similar legislative proposals, such as this accounts, cannot be adopted. The opposition mayors will now work together to demonstrate how the distorted social policy, which is also set out in the budget, can be replaced by a just social policy, how it can really be governed in the interests of the people. I trust that the mayors will be able to represent their interests in the European Union as well as to manage them with direct resources. You can count on the support of the MSZP, we here in the Parliament with the means available to us will help the aspirations of free cities and free settlements. Thank you for listening.
u2019-10-24-12	Thank you, Congressman Bertalan Tóth. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-24-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Today, while we are talking about the closing of our budget, I would like to analyse four or another fifth issues in your mind, and I will not surprise you: I would like most to judge that now seeing not only their voices, but also directly the financial processes in which you spent the money of the Hungarian people, what the result was, and perhaps using the method that you are raising new topics from a different perspective. These are the five themes: one of them is in terms of macroeconomic processes, from the point of view of public finances, how the public debt is affected, and, by the way, the glory that you would like everyone to believe, in which I do not want to deny that there are positive elements, but otherwise, what they could have done compared to this, or how Hungary is left behind compared to neighbouring countries. In this sense, I could say that I will join my fellow Member in encouraging him to do what he wants to do, whether it is within the budget or out of the budget, but finally do what he has done, let us say that his fellow party is happy to do. So let's look at the details behind their beautiful numbers from the point of view of macroeconomic developments. According to the general justification of the bill, and the Secretary of State stressed that, overall, it can be concluded that government measures have put the Hungarian economy on a permanent growth path, which shows how GDP growth increased on an annual basis in the last quarter of 2018 in the successive years. Undoubtedly, the growth in 2018 was very fast, and out of the 11 Member States of the region Hungary, according to dynamics, came from 2016 to the 10th, then from 7th and then even further. But we also need to know that in 2019, if you think that this high-quality situation has not been achieved because of the specific effects, then what is the reason why, according to all forecasts, this process cannot be maintained, just against the statement, but will decrease in 2020 for next year. Mr Secretary of State's statement that European Union funds are not playing a major role in this, I am debating it, and the impact of this is precisely what will change it. At the same time, the equilibrium processes are far from so favourable. In 2018, the GDP-to-GDP deficit was highest in the region and the so-called structural deficit was well above 3 per cent and inflation was the second highest and the current account became negative for the first time since 2009. Of course, everything has serious consequences, because, in addition to the loose monetary policy, the forint has weakened significantly more than the region's characteristic. My fellow Members have stressed that the consequences of this process, which you have described here, are paid by citizens in everyday life. They're making them pay for you to spend more money, by the way. This is closely linked to the overheating of the economy, which apparently took place in 2018 in an election-oriented environment in which, again and again, it has played a major role in boosting EU aid and in paying for it, even when it was necessary to finance it in advance. This carried enormous risks, the government took this up, and fortunately for him, the decision that took place in December was to say that during the 11 months there were not as many sources of criticism as there were during the 12 months. So what they have undertaken in this is, as a result of the political situation, I think that it was primarily a result of the European Union's support. But these subsidies are running out, and after 2021, as you can hear, they are expected to decrease, and wage increases and the economy itself increasingly limit this growth. For Hungary, for this small country, the growth driven by domestic demand does not represent a sustainable path, which I think should be taken into account by you, but you do not do. Let us look at the public finances that I think can be said in a sentence that the result has nothing to do with planning. You're in the lucky position that if you're lucky, you've made the decision that you're actually not planning anything, you're not likely to see what's going on this month, so what happens next is just right. And then everyone's lucky to be where they want us to be. Now, what is the difference, of course, in this case, is the result of the bad planning that has become more than 2.8 percent of GDP as compared to your design. How could they not know that such an increase would happen anyway? How could all of this happen then, in this difference of HUF 1200 billion, which, in this way, you had to spend later? [[11.40]] However, I would like to judge this spending, as you have done. This difference is therefore greater than the annual deficit. Budgetary planning is serious, partly unwarranted, and you have heard it from me several times that the consequences of the system of acceptance that is being taken in the timetable for the adoption of the budget are visible here too. I am criticising this primarily because the result of this is that the Parliament, which is entrusted with overseeing all that you are doing, has completely excluded this spending from this parliamentary control, and I cannot agree with that, because our opinion has not been asked for, in this Parliament's debate they did not wish to conduct, this HUF 1200 billion has been spent at their own convenience and, in my opinion, poorly. The rapid increase in revenues was primarily the result of the rising employment and income outflow more dynamic than planned, but since the government can practically decide on budget expenditure during the year, as I said, on its own authority, we experience and see the figures appearing in the Hungarian Gazette every day. That, as I said, made it impossible for the Parliament to control its function. During the year, the deficit was extremely high because of the advance on EU funding, and I would say that it was the lucky solution that took place in December. At the same time, let us not go beyond the consequences of the irregularities committed during the spending of EU funds and with whom they are being paid. One of these is the decision on the Elios projects: no one was willing to pay HUF 15 billion after this corrupt use, which is why the Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, had to pay for it. You paid for this instead of collecting it on those who did it, because otherwise they didn't produce any value, and you paid the HUF 15 billion illegally from this budget. Despite this, more than 30 percent of the annual deficit, as I say, came from an advance on EU transfers; despite the large revenue surplus, the cash flow deficit was HUF 50 billion higher than envisaged, i.e. the government spent the additional revenue on a highly controversial target system, I would like to say this summary to you. In the end, the cash flow deficit became 2.8 percent of GDP, less than the projected 2.9; the deficit, which is a result-based deficit, is 2.3 percent, and is also less than 2.4 per cent. However, the latter is also the highest in the region after Romania, especially at a time that my fellow Members have already mentioned that this is happening in a particularly favourable economic environment. As a third element, let us look at what is worth mentioning in terms of functional expenditure, specific expenditure, and I would like to join my fellow Members in this, how irresponsible I think it is to see how important expenditure for the future of Hungary is being ignored by you or why important areas are being ignored. In recent years, the structure of the functional expenditure on public finances relative to GDP has changed negatively, reflecting a state-oriented and non-knowledge-based economic development concept. You have previously called this a different one, but you have also been in a debate with yourself, as the various competitiveness programmes already refer to knowledge-based economic development, but this has not been supported in any way by the extra spending of the past year. In this, as I say, there was no turnaround last year. If we look very, very hard for positive changes, then they are also minimal. I'm sure the Secretary of State will insist and say these things. This is negative because, in the context of rapid economic growth, it would have been easier to implement structural changes, but especially education and health have a persistently low share and lack of reform is a really big problem, and you have not paid any attention to this permanently, for a decade. This is the sin that I think it could not have been done at this time of year, it should not have been committed. Although expenditure on the operational functions of the State may have decreased slightly, if I narrow it down very much, but also the elements and parts of welfare functions have decreased from 23,9 per cent in 2017, for example to 23,3 per cent in 2017, but they have also exceeded the allocation that was 22.6 per cent. So your intention is clear: to take the money from this area, and for that reason, I think it is no wonder that a lot of people are upset about the health and education situation. In addition, the reduction is also seen as a consequence of a reduction in the share of pension expenditure; the share of education expenditure, as I say, has not changed in essence; the share of healthcare expenditure is also in this state. After all, the surplus. The share of sport must be equal to, say, and compare in proportion to, expenditure on secondary education. Gentlemen, if you consider this to be normal, I think it's no wonder you're going to be critical, and by the way, this edition is twice the cost of home and pediatric services. The share of economic functions decreased after 2017 compared to the planned 7.6 percent, which we can even consider to be welcome, but when environmental spending is like this, I would say that a significant decrease of 0.6 per cent was possible even from there to 0.4 per cent, I think you do not want this trend to continue. I hope that's true. Let us say a few words about a reduction in public debt, which I clearly say could have been much more robust and could have done as a result if you had spoken so much about the excellent economic situation that you would have used this opportunity to consider the introduction of the euro. This would be a much greater step for the safety of the Hungarian people, and you have rejected the suggestion and reflection of this with a decisive decision. So I think they've taken a serious risk. The government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased from 72,9 per cent in 2017 to 70,2 per cent in 2018. This is positive, but in the case of counter-cyclical economic policy, the decline could have been much greater. Only the lack of spending at the end of December would otherwise have reduced this debt to less than 70%. This should have been done for you, instead of doing this, but a significant part of the HUF 60 billion expenditure of the National Defence Fund, which could have been saved in the same way, could have been used to reduce debt. Here the missed steps are the subject of criticism in particular. [[11.50]] But in order to compare this whole process with where we really start and where we can arrive... Secretary of State saved him the opportunity to deal with the European and regional comparison of this, because then it is quite different, and it becomes clear that the Hungarian government could not take advantage of such a positive period, and therefore the criticism mentioned earlier can have a right to the government to see what it has done. The balance of the government sector in the region was the worst in Hungary after Romania in 2018, and there are also two countries in the entire European Union where the deficit was higher. Of the 30 countries under investigation, the 2018 budget in 16 countries, together with Iceland and Norway, was directly sufficient. Here again, I confirm that it was a positive situation, which is why, if we add that Hungary can be expected in this way, if we look at the Minister of State without interest, how far his repulsive look extends in this content, the point is that Hungary has not been able to take advantage of the favourable situation. This is happening in an environment where Hungary has the highest tax centralisation. As a result, and I would like to point out here in particular that, since the government has drawn everything to itself, either the Hungarian people, the businesses or the Hungarian authorities have made very high-functioning rules impossible,... This year, i.e. in 2018, only Croatia had higher tax centralization compared to Hungary, even taking into account 2010. The two-year improvement, which is included, I consider to be minimal, just because it is partly relative, because it occurred after the many years of increase, and therefore your actions in this respect can be considered almost negligible. The government sector's GDP-related expenditure decreased to 46.5 percent in 2014. The declining trend after the previous wave of around 50 percent has been happening since 2015, which I would like to say as a positive. Hungarian data was higher than the EU average of 28 in 2018 and the highest in the region. But this ratio is too high for Hungarian development. Government sector spending accounted for 2.5 per cent of GDP in 2018, and in the European Union it is less than that, 1.9 per cent. Overall, although the general government deficit is one of the highest in the European Union this year and the reduction in public debt is slow, the main problem is the poor revenue and expenditure structure, which hinders competition in the market, increases social disparities and causes serious malfunctions in large public systems. Within revenue, single-key personal income tax or a wide range of sectoral taxes are unfavourable. On the expenditure side, there is a strong state where there should not be, for example, market operation, local government and institutional autonomy is hampered by a hierarchy and expanding system of state organisations, and where it could otherwise be stronger, and this is education and health. Without the modernization of the state, Hungary cannot be successful. I trust that the risks to which I have drawn attention will, after all, be brought to the attention of the Secretary of State for the next period, and that, in addition to the importance of the Secretary of State in this respect, it is at least as important for the State Audit Office. The President of the State Audit Office has not mentioned that in many cases corruption risks have been identified. I believe that it is absolutely clear to every voter present or following this debate that it is absolutely clear in Győr what risks they have taken and what the consequences have been. In this city, and who knows how many other situations there are that require immediate control of the State Audit Office. This is what I turned to the President of the State Audit Office. I hope that we can reach agreement on this, and that will happen soon. The expenditure for 2018 shall be made at the level of both the State and the municipalities. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-10-24-14	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, The Group of the LMP, the May Other, has indicated that it will share the 30 minutes available, and two speakers will present the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi.
u2019-10-24-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, This budget was a budget for missed opportunities and for the future, leaving a pile of debts for the goals that I think we should all be extremely, very important. Despite the additional revenue and expenditure of 1000 billion, funding in the most important deficit areas is desperate. The Fidesz government has made a huge increase in deficit and debt in education, health and environmental protection. This is indeed an achievement when the world economy environment has allowed budget revenues to increase by 1170 billion and its expenditure by 1260 billion. Many have said many things about the deliberate reduction of education, and I think that most of them were absolutely right. And I think that there has also been a lot of talk about the financing gap in health care, the collapse and near-fall situations that have occurred in several places, and the 24,000 of our countrymen who have died because of the failure or failure of the government. I would therefore like to highlight two areas, which is also a stepchild to the government, and it is clear from the closing report that there is no change in this, while friends accumulate billions or even hundreds of billions of dollars in wealth abroad, while the country, the pillars of our lives, are creaking. These two areas are environmental protection and the protection of natural resources, as well as social care. We know the opinion of Viktor Orbán on the protection of the environment, because he has repeatedly made it almost completely clear that he considers the protection of the environment and of our resources and the entire institutional system and legislation for this to be an unnecessary burden, which hinders economic development and hinders the realisation of prestige investments. This is a damaging and destructive approach, my fellow Members, because it is not progress that is destroying. This is also clearly seen by reading the 2018 closure of the central budget. The Fidesz-KDNP government continues to destroy the institutional system of environmental affairs consistently and continuously since 2010, and does so with its funding. Expenditure on environmental protection was achieved by half a percentage point lower than in the previous year in 2018, due to the rise in EU development and the decline in this type of municipal expenditure. It is difficult to find the words for these ridiculous reasons, because the government has a responsibility to be on the beat with regard to the deaths which can be significantly partly attributed to the inadequate implementation of environmental quality, that this leads to the premature death of tens of thousands of Hungarians each year, and that only the lack of adaptation to climate change is estimated to exceed 1 percent of GDP. How many people and how much they have to work for even a half-percent increase! [[12.00]] The institutional and sectoral objectives of environmental protection were totalled HUF 285.6 billion in 2018, while the sector's spending was HUF 327.2 billion lower than in the previous year due to the exit of EU development resources, which was extremely sensitive to each area. The funding of national parks remains a cause for concern, but only the water directorates received some extra money. The situation is not only that the government does not sacrifice to the environment, the situation is much worse, because the government draws very good money each year from ecotaxes and quota revenues, but just swallows it up and spends it on something else. Energy revenues were 1.2 billion above planned, the revenue of the mining fee exceeded the original HUF 36.8 billion in the Budget Act by 18.7 percent, while in 2018 the sales of greenhouse gas emission allowances received HUF 72.2 billion in the central budget, which was slightly more than three times the originally planned value. But without the need for completeness, the company's car revenues amounted to HUF 35 billion, the utility tax HUF 54 billion, while the product fee revenue brought HUF 79 billion to the kitchen. But where will these money go? Why is it not the principle that these resources should be spent entirely on environmental tasks? [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] But let's see what's on the expense page. Preparing for climate change, adapting as a basic national strategy goal, is conceptually and fundamentally lacking when spending the central budget. The support for the entire climate, energy and green economy policy system is less than HUF 15 billion. The support of the public reconstruction basis of the water utilities in 2018 is zero forints. In addition to 6.3 billion of water, environment and natural disaster response, the budget of BM has hardly any substantial central budget expenditure for the development of domestic water management. The implementation of the drinking water base protection programme is supported by HUF 0.1 million. 10 million forints were spent on implementing the Water Framework Directive. Hard to find data from the implementation of the national environmental remediation programme where there is a substantial amount to spend. Let me give you an example: symbolic support for the Cséry site alone, 140 million forints. The budget for the reduction of the small-scale particulate matter PM10 was HUF 35 million, and we believe that it is so immeasurably small that, with such an attitude, we do not even know how it is possible to implement the national air load reduction programme developed at a high level by professionals. We spent 25 million forints on the protection against ragweed, while we know just how high the health costs of this root are for Hungarian society. Animal protection aid was worth 47 million. Despite the efforts of professionals, the number of nature conservation guards working in national parks has also decreased further. In 2018, the national population of the nature guard was reduced to 245 people. This gives an average of 380 square kilometres of operational space per capita, 35 square kilometres of protected nature and 81 square kilometres of Natura 2000. For one! The government also supported the public work to compensate for the lack of capacity of national parks in a very specific way: the public employment programme started on 1 March 2017 using an average of 811 people until 28 February 2018, the 2018 programme started on 1 March and ended on 30 June 2018. Forint 84 million was allocated to all Hungarian green NGOs to take over public tasks, a total of HUF 88 million for consumer protection, HUF 180 million for farm development is also shamefully low; while HUF 460 million was granted only in support of the promotion of Hungaricums. Of course, there is something that carries the money as a result of dilettante and willful politics, because let's face it, your economic policy, your own politics, is not often about anything but prestige investments, showing themselves to be bigger, rather than giving real answers to real problems. In the area of income and expenditure related to the exercise of ownership rights, the government gave easily to Paks II. Nuclear Power Plant Ltd. The capital increase was HUF 14 billion, while there was not even a small amount of money available to increase public energy efficiency. However, the preparation and implementation of the project, which was rejected by a large part of the population, was supported by HUF 35 billion. It is true, I add, that in the municipal election, the result has been achieved. The government's nuclear power plant development rampage is also a clear land mine in the budget. With the revenue of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund of 27.5 billion, the expenditure was over 12 billion. Thus, for the decommissioning of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, for the final disposal of small and medium and high radioactive waste, for hundreds of years, the base will be spent only about 10-15 billion a year, and this is completely irresponsible for the present but much more for future generations. Overall, environmental expenditure is not even on a thank-you basis in the national environmental programme, in the nature conservation plan, in the national biodiversity conservation strategy or in the national climate change strategy, which concerns the enforcement of the rights of Hungarians to a healthy environment, which are also declared in the Fundamental Law, the protection of natural resources, and they have a number of tasks that should be carried out. We have known for a long time that the government has created the price of recapitalisation of buddies, to have money for all kinds of fun, even for breaking the law, by saving money on social expenditure, in addition to EU funds. That's why the wages of the employees in this sector haven't grown in ten years! And that is why the government refuses to recognise home care as minimum wage work for everyone. In addition, it is a serious development that, where there is supposed to be a source in the context of the year of families, the results are not visible. The aim of the family year was to support the important role of families in society, the promotion of family-friendly public thinking, the implementation of childbearing plans and the overall move in a positive direction of population development. Dear House, I think that Hungary's biggest shame is that the Hungarian government had the nerve to call 2018 the Year of Families, a year where the Hungarian government did nothing to save those who were in need of foreign exchange loans, where there was no meaningful progress to prevent illegal evictions. The year was called the Year of Families, when again they took out the CSOK, which provided support for the wealthy, instead of creating a rental fund that could have significantly increased the number of apartments in Hungary. Because, let's face it, this rental issue and the housing crisis in Hungary have not just begun. And we know exactly that the CSOK is good for the banks, because we're talking about a loan product. Unfortunately, however, it was also clear that if a family buys four air tickets for the two children and the married couple and goes out to a freely elected country in Western Europe, their housing will still be easier to secure than our fellow countrymen who are committed and want to thrive at home. Ladies and gentlemen, For welfare functions, 49.1 percent of public finances were spent in 2018, an increase of 1.1 percentage points compared to the previous year. [[12.10]] However, the social status and conditions of the population would require a much higher proportion of expenditure than we would otherwise be at the end of the line in this European comparison. Moreover, if you look at the internal structure of these welfare expenditures, you can see here again that these amounts are managed not necessarily, or even to a significant extent, to those in need. The social pay table should therefore be organised, there are huge wage gaps in the social sphere. The waiting lists in social institutions could be reduced and the quality of care could be improved, of course this would require political will, because as I started speaking, it is a resource. The share of other social assistance has decreased from 2.2 per cent to 2 per cent. This involved a reduction in expenditure on real estate purchases and real estate investments carried out by the National Asset Manager, although there is still a need for sufficient quality and quantity of real estate, whose apartments have been taken away by the bank and you do not deal with them. Practically every month, European court decisions come out to say just one of these years, 260, or 51/17 last year, which clearly proves that banks have abused their dominant position, have fooled credible families, and I think that you should not stand by and watch this. But here I can safely mention that, although there is money for everything that is important to you, from the stadium to the yacht, you did not think that the VAT on basic foods, which you like to pay to wealthy people and those in need, is 27 percent VAT. It's like a luxury product buying a kilo of bread. We're not far from here. Dear House, The house prices have increased, so the majority of the support that they provide through the CSOK has been lost in real terms, so even the layer you would have wanted to benefit from was not good, because we can see precisely that the price of an apartment in Budapest is already over HUF 40 million. Let us be honest that if we are aware that CSOK is a credit product, a Hungarian family can save enough money from an average salary, or from the average salary lied by KSH, to help their child raise three children with honor. The main policy objective in the field of child protection was to further strengthen foster care, to increase the safety of children from their families, and to establish procedural rules to facilitate the enforcement of child rights in the board of guardianship. However, based on numbers and practical experience, this area does not really interest the government, hundreds and thousands of lives are lost, and I think that no one, the government or any decision-making can afford it. Therefore, I will continue to say what we said when we adopted the budget, which we said last year and when we adopted this year's budget, so that the structure of the budget is not for you, but for Hungarian society. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-24-16	Thank you. Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn.
u2019-10-24-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, As my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, said that this budget was a budget for increasing the missed opportunities and the debt pile for the future, let us think about education, health and the environment. The faction has already indicated in the budget debate that it will lose. Let's see who those losers are. Its losers are generally civil servants, who have not been affected by a wage increase for many years, or only partially, with various non-leased allowances. It is fortunate that their wages will at least be added if they do not reach the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage. Its losers are also municipal civil servants. They haven't received a salary increase in a decade, so we need at least a 30% increase. Its losers are social workers, who, along with their entire territory, have almost devalued themselves, working for nothing. This is particularly noticeable in the countryside. Losers of the system are daycare and kindergarten workers. Their wages didn't even reach the minimum they could expect, and they haven't risen in many years. The network of kindergartens has much less resources than the demand, which, by the way, is so big because of the proper compulsory kindergarten. Even if there is support for investment, the value of the workers is no longer available. Even the disabled and job-seekers are the main losers of the system. The government has taken care of a significant part of them. Unfortunately, there was no solution to this. National micro- and small entrepreneurs are the losers of the system. The markets, because of the lack of skilled labour, have limited potential for growth in their productivity, even if sometimes flows of investment money are trying to improve this. They are also the losers of the system for domestic micro- and small entrepreneurs. Most of them are registered on minimum wage, and a lot of them get a share of their wages in pocket, so they'll barely have a pension, and the contribution is much less, which goes into the state register. Losers of the system are also people living in the countryside, working in the small town or in the village, as hundreds of GPs are missing, children's doctors and dentists have to go a long way. It's a long way from school, and it's hard to get a teacher for a small settlement. Public transport is sporadic, certainly not suitable for taking a job with some settlements and even for the family. The state of roads is catastrophic in many places, and it is almost impossible to travel on many side roads. The motorways are built, but it doesn't help them, so all the other benefits of living in a quieter environment, community, the countryside is depopulated. There is a constant decline in population in most settlements. Without proper public services, there are no movers. However, the number of people leaving abroad is increasing. The system is a big loser of individual farmers. Most of the land was taken by acquaintances, close acquaintances of government, city lawyers, oligarchs. Even if they could farm, the all-eating, remodeling feudal estate system doesn't leave a lot of chances for the little ones, sooner or later everyone will. And the chamber, which, by the way, could help them organize, conspire, cooperate, is also just the field of the power struggle mentioned above. In particular, bio-farmers are big losers of the system. Their growth would be vital because of the dangerously scarce resources. The area cultivated in organic farming in Europe may not have increased in a unique way. All this has been sadly demonstrated by the processes that have taken place since then, with the deterioration of the prospects of the countryside. The draft closing act describes the aim of raising the countryside, increasing population retention, improving food self-determination, but unfortunately the guidelines do not support these objectives. If we look behind the numbers, we see the deteriorating processes that cry out for intervention. The number of people employed in agriculture is also decreasing. The draft therefore makes the labour shortage responsible, but this is quite false when the government is arguing with employment higher than ever before. Why has employment been reduced in agriculture when it has grown everywhere else? Is it possible that this great expansion is not really real, but is it, for example, pissed off by statistics of people working abroad? Moreover, this trend can be observed not only in agriculture but also in the food processing industry. [[12.20]] In agriculture, the outdated traditional product structure remains dominant: corn, sunflower, wheat, triticale, rape. They are essentially produced in large-scale agricultural structures. This system should be radically changed from an economic and sustainability point of view, but there is no intention to do so. The aid scheme does not address the elimination of territorial conditions. Farmers in the best Hungarian lands receive just as much support as those who cultivate the weaker hillsides, for example, in Nógrád. The production of berry fruit is dying, Hungary's syrup plants use concentrates imported from abroad for almost every syrup. The Hungarian strawberry, raspberry and currant syrup are available at the maximum family bioeconomic level. But, as mentioned above, organic farming is not a priority for the government. Agriculture is largely linked to nature conservation, green corridor networks, the location and proportions of intensively or gently cultivated or untapped areas. In brownfield areas, a multitude of facilities are abandoned, unclaimed, while new industrial, agricultural sites and solar parks grow out on grasslands, meadows or previous arable areas. We cannot be proud of the results achieved in the field of environmental and nature protection. We have already discussed in detail the destruction of the state's environmental protection, but we should mention once again the areas that are most affected by agriculture, the natural basis for life from soil to pollination, and they also show a worsening trend. The management of river basin-based environmental and water management is completely distilted. The expertise of regional environmental authorities has been reduced. Water management is specifically located in an unfit organisation. For many years, the National Environmental Damage Response Programme has not dealt with many environmental damage, while the State's responsibility is unquestioned. The extent of protected natural areas has barely increased, while many of our habitats have been endangered due to a lack of landscape revitalization. Wetlands are particularly in danger in many places. The relationship between environmental authorities and their areas of operation has been reduced, local knowledge has been reduced and the number of already small number of nature conservation guards has been reduced. Overall, the bill is unacceptable to us, and we believe that the whole natural resources management, agricultural support, forestry, rural development, environmental protection and nature protection require something else and much more, calls for urgent change. We always say these sentences because we believe that it is also up to the opposition to try to draw attention to shortcomings, because the governing parties tell us what is good and we tell them what we think is wrong. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-10-24-18	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Tamás Mellár, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2019-10-24-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Mr. President. It is quite difficult to say the last, although there is an advantage, because many things have been said in front of me, and at the same time it is very impatient, because everyone would like to go to lunch. I'll try to be brief. When we talk about budgetary closure, we obviously have to ask the simple question of what year 2018 was, because that is the question that both of us are most excited about, and on which we now have the right numbers. On the pro-government side, Mr Secretary of State and President of the Court of Auditors said that this was a good year and that my fellow members of the government confirmed the same. First of all, they based their opinion on the strong economic growth that had been achieved in the year 18, as compared to 4.3 percent of the planned GDP growth this year was 5.1 percent. That is certainly true, although I will come back to it later, that it is not quite so, but let us now accept at the first moment that this is so. What's the problem or problem? So when the opposition side expresses its doubts, are you sure it's just opposition behavior talking, or is it a little more than that? Well, if we count it and the Hungarian National Bank is of the same opinion that the potential growth rate of the Hungarian economy in 2018 was between 2 and 3 percent, then this means that if this economy has achieved performance above 5 percent, this economy is an overheated economy. And if this is an overheated economy, there are serious problems and problems arising from overheating. Let me argue with Mr State Secretary, who said that this was not an election budget, so it was not a classic budget cycle, because we used European Union money to a lesser extent in 18 than in 17 years. This is not exactly the case, because the effective use of EU funds was higher in 2018, it was almost 5 per cent, while in 2017 it was only 4.3 per cent. You are right that payments were indeed reduced and smaller, but effective use matters more. Some serious problems arise from the overheated economy. One is balance problems and the other is structural and structural problems. The first and most important thing about imbalances is that, although the budget is very commendably meeting the Maastricht 3 per cent criterion every year, but at the same time it has not met, it failed to meet the requirement of a medium-term structural balance or deficit in 2018, and the European Economic Committee has repeatedly called attention to this and demanded the adjustment, i.e. that at least 1 per cent of GDP be reduced by the government. However, the Hungarian government did not accept this. He could have, because we are not a member of monetary union, and therefore he is not bound by us, but it would have been good if he had accepted it, because this obviously shows the overheating very strongly. This overheating, of course, is also evident in the fact that the positives of the external trade balance have been significantly reduced, as the growth dynamics of exports were 4.3 and the imports were 6.8 percent. Of course, this still represents a surplus in the external trade balance, but we have already changed in the current account, so there is no such activity. Remember that in 16-17 we had a very massive, large current account active, which has now run out. Obviously, one side was that there were significant purchases, which also increased imports, increased them, and the other was profit withdrawals, which were also very significant. The next very important issue is inflation. Although inflation has evolved as planned, or has remained within it, what can be seen from official inflation figures, we all sense that inflation has increased significantly in Hungary over the past few years, following the trends in the global deflation world economy. If KSH took the trouble not to calculate the indices with a consumer basket two years earlier, it would also turn out that this 2.8 percent is not 2.8, but much higher. The next balance issue or problem is the exchange rate. The weakening of the exchange rate can be seen very strongly. In the 2018 plan, the euro exchange rate would be 309 HUF, compared to 319 HUF, and we know that it is now over 330 HUF. Obviously, this is also a kind of inflationary pressure in the economy. Then we see the emergence of labour shortages, while there is, of course, significant unemployment in Hungary, although some of this is not registered, but it is also apparent from the size of the unemployment contribution of 18 that this is very significant. What is behind this is that there is also a structural problem, and, of course, the number of migrant workers has increased. In this regard, the government does not intend to give us any information on how many people are, where they came from, what the plan is for them, what we want to do with them and what we want to do with them, and in such a situation of lack of labour, I think that these are realistic questions. [[12.30]] What can we see about structural problems? First of all, it can be seen that today Hungary has developed a structure in which there are constantly losing sectors including health care, education, which is, by the way, the most important area of human capital production, and it obviously follows that despite the government's belief, or even the intention to increase competitiveness and productivity in Hungary, this is highly unlikely to be feasible, since it is a prerequisite for high-quality human capital, and that there has been enormous damage to education and health. This is not only about providing a very substantial amount of financial resources, but also about developing completely different, completely new concepts in order for us to have a truly modern education system and to produce the human capital that can be the bearer of the fourth industrial revolution. It can be seen very well that the construction industry has played the leading role in recent years' economic activity and in the government-led economic activity of 2018 - pro-cyclical economic policy. If you look at the statistical data, you can see that in 2018, the construction industry was speeding up, there were 20-30 percent increase in volume indices, and this large increase, despite its low weight in GDP, has nevertheless increased the rate of GDP growth to a very significant extent. However, in addition to the fact that capacity has been built that will not necessarily be necessary in the future, when this artificial economy ceases to exist, there is another element, namely the fact that, since there has been mainly public orders and public investments in the construction sector and there has been a significant overpriced situation, there has therefore been a problem of accounting which is very difficult to say how much and how much. But if it is true that overpriced was typical in 90 percent of state orders, then we can clearly say that the 5.1 percent economic growth is much lower, since an inflatable construction industry has also contributed significantly to this high growth rate. With regard to investments, it is welcome that investments have increased by 17 percent and our investment rate is now above 20 percent and even around 25 percent, which is very high. But once again, if we look at the structure of this, we see that there is too much public investment and there is little private investment, especially the investments of Hungarian majority companies, foreign investments are somewhat improving the situation, and unfortunately we still have what we already had in 17 that there is a great deal of construction investment and very little machinery investment. From these significant amounts of EU funds, the Hungarian government has failed to develop technical and technological developments, the complete renewal of this sector and the technological modernisation of the capital stock, which, by the way, I think will raise very significant problems later on. Then there are two elements of this whole story that are worth emphasising very strongly here, because in previous years they have had a fundamentally positive impact and positive consequences, but the situation has changed now, and it does not look that way anymore. One is the structure of tax revenues and taxes. After 2010, the Orbán government adopted a tax philosophy, the essence of which was, the decisive element of which was that it was increasingly taxing consumption and, compared to this, taxing incomes to a lesser extent. The positive outcome of this was what President Domokos also pointed out that the economy has become very much white and therefore tax revenues have increased significantly. That's what I say as a positive element, and I say yes, it had such a positive element. But let us not forget that there were two very significant negative elements. One is that an unfair and very unfair tax system has developed, in which poor people pay much more taxes in proportion than rich people. This would be the case even if it weren't a single key, but it's still a shovel that there is a single-key sja system, because poor people don't have savings, so they spend their entire income for consumption, and most of it is paid with 27 percent VAT, while better-mode people save, and savings are not taxed by this system. So this is one of the very important problems, and this has now created social tensions that obviously will not make this system sustainable any longer. The second is that this type of taxation system does not promote economic activity, so it does not encourage economic operators to increase their expenditure significantly first, but rather it will make the country, including the government, spend more, and thus the already bad economic structure will continue to deteriorate. If it is true and, of course, we accept what Mr Domokos said, that the improvements in online machines, online invoices and tax ethic have been significant over the last few years, then I think that the government could bravely begin to change these two types of taxation and give greater weight to income-type taxes, especially those that are affecting businesses. This has already been mentioned by my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, that it is an exaggeration that these multinational companies pay a 9 percent tax in Hungary, while they are able to make significant profits. Then the other thing I would like to refer to is a change in the mix of economic policy. Before 2010, it was the case that the Gyurcsány government put together an economic policy mix in which there was a loose fiscal policy, coupled with a strict monetary policy. Obviously, this policy was not good, it was inadequate, and therefore we have been punished, because we have been disgraced in the European Union. This broke up with the Orbán government and said that we should reverse the situation, have a strict fiscal policy, and that was accompanied by a loose monetary policy. Of course, it can now be seen that this fiscal policy is not really strict. It is not strict because we respect the 3 per cent criterion, but it is not strict at all at the end of the day because of the significant amount of EU funding. And the result of loose monetary policy is to try to boost the economy and investment very significantly, but in fact, now that the deflation period is over, this will help to boost inflation, directly by generating demand and indirectly by not standing up to protect the exchange rate of the forint. [[12.40]] And I am not only saying this, but also the Minister of State said that a few weeks ago, when he said that it would be good to have a more stable exchange rate in Hungary, because that would also make monetary policy transparent and obviously limit surplus demand in some way. Yes, but then it can only be achieved if the central bank starts to raise interest rates, but the interest rate increases will have a negative impact on private investments, and it turns out that a number of investments have started that actually do not have adequate profitability, only because of very low interest rates appear and appear to be. This will mean, however, that the process in which we said that the debt-to-GDP ratio increased from 53 per cent in the previous Gyurcsány period to 80 per cent, and that this government has worked it down from 80 per cent to 70 per cent in recent years, a number of government representatives have also referred to this as a big positive act. But let's just stop for a second. If only after 2010, private pension funds, which were nationalised and which represented 10 per cent of GDP, had they been fully used to reduce public debt, would still be there at this 70 per cent. In fact, this economy was the 45 percent cumulative foreign aid, of course, in proportion to GDP, and it was a significant support of the European Union, which dynamicated and moved it. Moreover, the reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio is very apparent. So it looks very much that the year 18 seems to have brought serious results, but economic policy shows that this cannot be maintained in the longer term. Of course, the pro-government people say that we always say that we always curse here, that it is not sustainable, that it is not sustainable, and then it turns out that it is sustainable. Yes, by the way, it's really sustainable. But let us not forget that this is an extensive economic growth. It is extensive because it involves a significant amount of 4-5 per cent of external resources per year; it is of an extensive nature because it has involved a significant amount of labour, as we should not forget that we have achieved an increase of 23 per cent between 10-18 per cent and an increase in employment of nearly 20 per cent, since 4.5 million should be compared to 3.8 million. So this economy does not really have a productivity and a high production potential, but only an extensive growth base, which, by the way, is very soon overlived and has already lived up to it. So this type of economic model is, of course, sustainable; it is sustainable for the European Union to put 4-5 percent of its support in order in the coming years; it is sustainable if we can bring a significant amount of migrant workers into Hungary every year, and it is sustainable if a significant part of society believes and tolerates our continuing and ever stronger backwards compared to the Visegrád countries and the Baltic countries. Then it's sustainable. But I would very much like it if we did not wait for this to last and how long the patience of society would be, but rather if the government noticed and realized that this model could no longer be maintained and that it had to be changed significantly. I hope that there may be a lesson in today's debate or conversation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-10-24-20	Thank you, Congressman. Thus, we have come to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the nationality committee to speak. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a national representative, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2019-10-24-21	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges Nr. T/7556. über die Durchführung des Haushaltsgesetzes für Jahr 2018, Nr. C. aus Jahr 2017 im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitäten übergreifende Teilen erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the implementation of Act C of 2017 on Hungary's Central Budget for 2018 T/7556. Bill No.2 on the parts of Hungary affecting nationalities. My comment is now traditionally started with a quote by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Zitat von Johann Wolfgang von Goethe:.. Toleranz sollte eigentlich nur eine vorübergehende Gesinnung sein: sie muss zur Anerkennung führen. Dulden heißt bezidigen. Az az a magyarul: in English: intézmény can only mark a temporary condition, which should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Accepting, tolerance from the perspective of a nationality is like just putting up with it, putting up with it. So acceptance is not enough, only acceptance is an insult in itself. We want more, we expect more: recognition! It's a condition of recognition, and it's based on knowledge. Knowledge, a thorough assessment of our situation, the precise definition and development of the goals and the path to their achievement are the basis of every success. Therefore, as regards our starting position, please allow the 2012 CCIV on Hungary's central budget for 2013. I would like to recall some of my comments on the parliamentary procedure for implementing the Act in 2014: During the opinion of the final report on Hungary's central budget for 2013, we are in a difficult and easy situation at the same time. On the one hand, in a difficult situation, because this comment was supposed to take place almost 20 years ago here in the Hungarian Parliament, so that almost two decades of failure should be eliminated as soon as possible in all aspects. On the other hand, the easy situation is caused by the fact that, unfortunately, we Hungarian ethnicities had little to do with the drafting of budgetary laws in 2013 and the previous years, so that we can give an honest opinion on its implementation without any responsibility. After that, I discussed in detail the unworthy situation of the organizations of Hungarian ethnicities, from which I now take only one sentence as an example. I stress: I am talking about 2013 and the previous years. 1. The operating grants of national minority civil society organisations, the support of ethnic cultural programmes since 2002, i.e. they have remained unchanged for more than ten years, were at a very low level and did not cover a fraction of the legitimate needs. 2. The resources available for five to seven days' camps for mother tongue camps were sufficient for two or three scoops of ice cream per minority child. 3. The national minority self-governments' support has remained substantially unchanged for two cycles, while binding legislative amendments have been imposed on them with significant additional costs. 4. The support of regional and municipal self-governments has been frozen since 2010, with the introduction of task-based support, the overall operating aid has been reduced to less than HUF 15 000 per month net, and even a part of it has been allocated to smaller municipalities. Overall, it had to be said that the ethnicities in Hungary started from a very low level in 2013 and sometimes from a humiliating situation. [[12.50]] In my speech at the time, I was able to highlight only two things as a clear positive, one of which was the provision of parliamentary representation of nationalities in Hungary, and the other was the changes in the rights and funding of the maintenance and funding of the ethnic public education institutions. It was undoubtedly the most important and clearly positive change in 2013 that it was reserved by the national authorities and here I stress that not only in the case of national minority public education institutions, but also in the case of local minority self-governments, the aid has increased significantly and became normative. This positive change in 2013 was not only important because it improved the funding of national minority public education institutions qualitatively, but also because it made the conditions for national education, education, predictable and safe in a legally regulated way, at least in the case of national minority public education institutions maintained by national authorities. Finally, I concluded my final statement in 2013 by saying, I quote, that I am asking you now that, in the preparation and adoption of the 2015 Budget Act, which will soon be on the agenda, we should have the opportunity to be responsible for the implementation of our proposals and comments, taking into account the 2015 accounts. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. After that, the central fiscal laws of the next four years were adopted, in which the support of Hungarian nationalities in 2014 was increased by HUF 2 billion in the 2015 Central Budget Act, HUF 2 billion HUF 63.4 million in 2016 and HUF 678.1 million in 2017, and finally HUF 1 billion HUF 688,8 million in the 2018 Central Budget Act. Overall, this resulted in an increase in the sum of 13 nationalities in Hungary by nearly HUF 10.5 billion in the 2018 Central Budget Act compared to the HUF 4 billion budget support in 2014. In particular, the support of national minority self-governments increased by about 40 percent, the operating support of local national authorities was increased by 3.5 times and the task-based support was doubled. The so-called NMZ-CIS call for funding for the operation of minority civil society organisations and the so-called NEMZ-KUL framework for the promotion of ethnic cultural initiatives have both increased by 4.5 times. The support framework for native language student camps increased from HUF 30 million to HUF 400 million, i.e. more than 13 times in 2018. In the central budget, a new additional funding framework has been opened for the local national authorities and the national minority institutions they have taken over, which increased annually in 2018 by HUF 330 million. The national theatres, as well as the theatre groups playing in ethnic language, received support from a new additional framework, from HUF 130 million in 2018. Finally, the refurbishment of national authorities, national authorities and national minority public education institutions, which they maintained, and the self-subsidisation of the investment tender in 2018 were more than HUF 1 billion. Finally, but not least from January 2018 we launched the National Education Programme, the first step of which was to keep existing national teachers on the track and increase their financial recognition, and to increase the nationality bonus several times. From 1 January 2018, from 10 to 15 per cent, from 15 to 30 per cent from 1 January 2019, we hope that from 1 January 2020 to 30 per cent, the national minority allowance and the extension of the eligibility range will also be introduced. The second stage of the programme was the introduction of a teaching scholarship in 2018 to ensure a sufficient number of well-trained ethnic educators. From 1 September 2018, we signed a scholarship agreement with 84 first-grade national education students. I am now happy to report that although the deadline for the submission of scholarship applications will be completed tomorrow, we will reach 300 people today, which includes the students of the first, second and third-grade national school teacher and the first-grade teacher of ethnicity, as well as ethnic language and culture, as well as ethnic language and foreign language and culture. This is what I consider to be the most important achievement for our ethnic future, as we can only give our children and grandchildren back and strengthen their mother tongue so that they can continue our ethnic culture, traditions and ethnic identity. In addition to the significant increase in the amount of national minority grants, the actual launch of the national minority educator programme, we have been able to make significant progress with legislative amendments favourable to the Hungarian nationalities or by making several months of the launch of the NMZ applications, which are crucial for the functioning of national minority organisations, the planning, predictability and the provision of liquidity at all times. On this basis, although I have already said it in the general debate of almost all four budgetary laws, but I am happy to say it again in view of the whole four-year cycle: I would like to thank without reservation the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament for the increase in national minority support throughout the cycle, for the positive changes in Hungarian politics in relation to the ethnicities living in Hungary. I can say with all my heart that this positive change is on a scale that has not been observed in the last eight decades. In particular, we thank all parliamentary factions, all Members of Parliament, for taking matters of nationalities living in Hungary, regardless of political affiliation, from the topics of daily, often unworthy and harsh political battles, and in all cases, the pre-agreed legislative amendments initiated by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities were unanimously adopted. Please continue to maintain this good habit. However, the fact that there is still a lot of tension, problems, challenges and challenges ahead of the 13 Hungarian nationalities does not contradict all these positive, truly historical changes. There are many tasks to be solved because after the serious omissions of the last seven to eight decades, we have started from a depth which, even positive changes in three to four years, cannot compensate from one year to the next. But the essence was ensured by this four-year cycle: we were included in the Hungarian Parliament, in the legislative process, and we were able to take our own fate into our own hands. We know what our goals are, and we are determined to achieve them for the future of our children and grandchildren, our nationalities. [[13.00]] On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary agrees with the report of the State Audit Office of Hungary, okfa T/7556. A report on the monitoring of the implementation of Act C of 2017 on Hungary's central budget for 2018 is proposed to Parliament for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2019-10-24-22	Thank you, Mr Speaker. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2019-10-24-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to thank you for the positive words of appreciation you have said in connection with the implementation of the budget, following the keynote speeches. At the same time, I think that among the keynote speakers there were some that might be based on a mistake on the subject, or which, in my view, contain slides, so allow me to respond to these comments after the keynote speeches. I must start by saying that, in my opinion, the debate on the draft discharge law is about the ability to achieve the objectives set at the time of the adoption of the budget and whether or not the implementation of the budget was carried out in accordance with the legal provisions. With regard to the objectives, I would like to highlight four indicators, which have been discussed in the main speaker's round. Firstly, economic growth. Instead of the planned 4.3 percent expansion, the Hungarian economy expanded by 5.1 percent. Secondly, according to the EU methodology, the planned deficit was reached at 2.3 per cent instead of 2.4 per cent of GDP. Third, the debt ratio decreased from 72.9 per cent at the end of 2017 to 70.2 per cent in GPD, according to the EU methodology. Fourthly, all these positive macroeconomic developments have, in my opinion, been felt in everyday life. While, when planning the budget, we assumed that net average earnings would increase by 8.8 percent, instead I can tell you that the increase in average earnings was 11 percent. Let me therefore respond to what has been said by focusing on these four factors. Growth: a number of people have said that specific effects have determined the growth of the economy, no structural changes have been made, no backwards compared to countries in the region, and no delays can be achieved. As far as the individual effects are concerned, indeed, as Tamás Mellár said, we have been hearing this since 2013. Every year since 2013, for some specific reason, the expansion of the Hungarian economy exceeds the average of the European Union. I think I may have heard irony in my words. Indeed, there are specific factors, but I think that for many years it is not possible that it is only by chance that the expansion of the Hungarian economy exceeds the EU average. We also know the first six months of 2019: the Hungarian economy grew above 5 percent. We know that every cycle, according to economic law, ends at some point. We see the developments in the global economy, but I think that growth above the EU average can also characterize 2019. There is no structural change said by Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I think the mere fact that there are more than 800 thousand employees today than there were a decade ago shows that the Hungarian economy operates in a different structure. If we look at how the individual sectors contribute to the expansion of the economy, we can say that there has been significant structural change, not one sector pulling the Hungarian economy. Mr President, you are right in that, and Mr Tamás Mellar has also pointed out that we need to find new channels of growth. That the number of employees has increased significantly: we know that today the availability of skilled workers is one of the barriers to growth. This is why it is important that we can improve productivity and that is what the 2016 multi-annual wage agreement aims at. It was not said by the government, but by employers and representatives of those who are working, that this agreement, which I think was an agreement of economic importance, is an agreement that envisages the structural improvement of the Hungarian economy and an increase in productivity, as it forces businesses to increase efficiency and increase productivity, in addition to tax reductions, through the rise in wages. As regards the lag from the countries of the region, this is what Member Bertalan Tóth referred to. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary has reached its third largest rate of growth in 2018 on the basis of data from EU Member States. Among the countries of the region, Poland and I are in a dead race, and the growth of all other countries has been exceeded by the expansion of the Hungarian economy. Therefore, I must factually deny President Bertalan Tóth's statement. As regards EU aid in terms of the effects of growth, there is no doubt that the use of EU aid contributes to the expansion of the economy. The German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, said that Hungary used EU funds well, in his view this is reflected in the expansion of the economy. But once again, what we have been talking about for years is that using EU funds alone does not result in a country growing above the EU average. If this narrative were true, I repeat, Greece would soar. Let us look at the net beneficiary countries and see how the economic crisis has affected them. I can mention not only Greece, but Spain, Portugal or other countries, which are significant net beneficiaries, but we can see that EU aid alone does not determine whether there is growth in a country or not. As a second factor in the budget balance, let me respond once again to the words of Congressman Bertalan Tóth. He classified the budget for 2018 as an election budget. As President Domokos pointed out, this election budget is an expression in Hungary, and unfortunately not only in Hungary, it used to mean that in the year of parliamentary elections, the general government deficit disappeared. We can remember this, we know the 2002 or 2006 data. From this point of view, I find it difficult to interpret the term election budget at a time when the budget situation improved in 2018 compared to the plans. In the opinion of Mr László Varju, budget planning was poor and the implementation of the budget was withdrawn from parliamentary control by the government. As far as bad planning is concerned, we are now aware of five budgets submitted by the government to Parliament during the spring session from 2016 to 2020 and decided by Parliament at the end of the spring session. I think it would have been bad planning in recent years, including 2018 if the targets had not been met. The design would have been bad if a significant adjustment had to be made. We can remember that in 2016 and 17 there was a change in the content of the budgets adopted, both because of the additional revenue generated and the additional revenues allowed additional expenditure. In other words, the amendment was not a reduction in expenditure, it was not a change in the deficit target, it was not a change in the public debt target, it was that we were too careful, if you will, when drawing up these budgets. As far as parliamentary control is concerned, in 2018, the government made use of the possibility of redeployment under the authority of the Public Finance Act in respect of appropriations which were free, which were not used, within the limits of the budget adopted by Parliament. In other words, we have implemented the budget in full compliance with the legal framework, as I believe President László Domokos, President of the SAO, has expressed an opinion. With regard to the third item, the development of debt: firstly, I must respond once again to Mr Tóth's suggestion that the debts we have heard in the debate are real. Of course they are real, not only do I say this as a government official, but also the Eurostat figures published a few days ago have validated both the deficit and the debt ratio indicator. Perhaps the fact that there is an EU definition of sovereign debt in Maastricht is what we have used most of the time, and there is a definition according to the Stability Act, and there is some methodological difference between the two. Perhaps the most important thing is that, under the Stability Act, when comparing two years' debt, items in foreign currency should be taken into account at the same rate. [[13.10]] Of course, the government presented both the debt indicator under the Stability Act and the Maastricht debt index to the Parliament, both showing a decrease. Perhaps it may also have caused confusion for the Member, referring to the website of the Government Debt Management Centre, that the Government Debt Management Centre is managing the debt of the central budget. In addition, public debt in the EU sense or within the meaning of the Stability Act includes loans from local governments or debt from government sector entities. In the debate, both myself and President Domokos and the pro-government speakers used the most widely used Maastricht debt indicator in the broadest sense and internationally. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát pointed out that the debt service always amounts to around HUF 1000 billion. The Member is right on this point, but it is important to see that this thousand billion HUF is paid on the basis of a much larger economic base, and what really matters is the cost of debt financing. Today, the financing of Hungarian government debt is much cheaper, it can be measured at the level of the return on government debt paper or measured at the expenditure related to GDP. We can remember that, a decade ago, interest rates were well above 4 per cent of GDP, and now we are approaching 2 per cent, I think this is also a substantial step forward. If the financing cost of the Hungarian government debt had been stuck at the same level as it was a decade ago, we would have had to spend a nominally HUF 800-900 billion more on debt financing. Mr Tamás Mellár considered debt reduction to be moderate, either in the light of the fact that, in the context of the restructuring of the pension system, the assets of those going back to the public pension system had to be used to reduce public debt. Allow me to do two things. First of all, if this factor is taken into account as a correction factor, it is also worth looking at methodologically the extent to which Hungary has implemented the debt reduction. We also know from the Hungarian economic history a debt reduction that was made by the then government through the sale of family silver, through the sale of state assets. This is not the way Hungary has chosen; this debt reduction has been achieved in the context of a significant expansion of state assets. I would like to draw the attention of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát to the fact that, with regard to asset management, the accounts report on the 2018 processes. Of course, what the Member mentions is a comprehensive inventory of assets, a comprehensive thing that does not belong in the accounts, because in my opinion, the accounts are about the budgetary management of a year. We must therefore take into account the state's wealth growth, or, for example, the advance on EU support that the Member has referred to, which still represents a financing burden of a magnitude exceeding a large amount of HUF 1000 billion. If these funds also arrive from the European Commission, this will give us the opportunity to reduce the debt ratio even more. Another factor that needs to be highlighted is that, in the early 2010s, the development of the Hungarian debt ratio went against EU trends. We can remember that after the crisis in 2008-2009, the EU's average debt increased, it grew to most countries, there was an economic crisis in 2012, the economy of the Union as a whole was shrinking, and in these years we have indeed faced trends, so I think that a significant reduction in the debt ratio of 10 percentage points can be regarded as an evaluable achievement in the light of the past ten years, if we look at the development of the debt of the other EU countries as well. The next, fourth, concerns the details of the implementation of the budget. Perhaps I have already referred to one factor: net average earnings increased by 11 percent. Mr Dániel Z. Karpat asked how much inflation eats this. If the forint weakens, it can be reflected in prices, and therefore we must also pay attention to the real value of the actions. I can respectfully report to you that, with an increase in net average earnings of 11,3%, inflation was 2.8 percent, which represents an increase in real value of about 8.5 percent in average wages. It's practically a month's extra wage in real terms. I think that this in itself is a commendable, outstanding indicator at European level, and if we add that we have not reported an individual real wage increase in 2018, we have seen a substantial real wage increase in previous years, and we are seeing the same on the basis of data from 2019, then I think we can appreciate this indicator. Member Bertalan Tóth said that taxation has never reached such levels, such as more personal income tax. If the Member were here, I would ask him whether the tax rate he paid has increased or decreased; whether he has used a family discount or not; and with this he has increased or not the amount of personal income tax he pays. We would probably see that the amount of personal income tax paid by the Member has also increased, but not because the tax rates have increased, but because his income has increased. I would suggest that you consult Professor Mellar, who said that, yes, when personal income tax is increased, they expect more people to pay taxes and the economy to become white; I think it is also in the field of employment. I would like to argue with Mr Mellar's statement, and here again I have to argue with Mr Bertalan Tóth's words that 2018 was a budget for injustice, and social inequalities have increased. President Bertalan Tóth said that the privileged will benefit those who have few, and those who have fewer. Please, the 2018 accounts do not support this factually. But then, with all due respect, after these findings, I would ask you to provide data to support what you're talking about. I'm sorry, I'm so categorical, because let's see how the minimum wage turned out... [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] Let's see the decylis, Professor. Let's see the decylis. Then let us remember that there was already a six-year wage agreement quoted, which was about an increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in 2017 and 2018. What did that mean? The minimum wage increased by 8 per cent in 2018, after 12 per cent in the previous year, and at the guaranteed minimum wage it meant that it increased by 12 per cent in 2018, after 25 per cent in the previous year. Now let's look at taxes and family discounts. Let me give you a summary of the data, and let me present the statistics from 2002-2010. Between 2002 and 2010, a minimum wage earner whose real income increased by 5.8 percent, taking into account inflation, increased by 36.1 percent between 2010 and 2019. With regard to a minimum wage of three children, you are always talking about social catch-ups, poor people: between 2002 and 2010, the minimum wager who had three children dropped his real income by 7.6 percent, and between 2010 and 2019 he is growing by 99 percent in real terms. So simply in the factual figures, the statement, I think, cannot be substantiated by what you have formulated in this regard. Congressman Bertalan Tóth said that pensioners were lending to the budget because inflation was different from what we had planned. Several times it was said that the projected inflation was 3 per cent, according to which pensions increased, the average overall inflation was 2.8 per cent, the pensioner index was 2.7 per cent based on the data of the HCSO, so that the real value of pensions increased slightly in 2018, and that the pension premium and the Erzsébet voucher were paid in addition. With regard to the area of health and education within the implementation of the budget, there is no doubt that we have a lot of work to do in these areas, as in many areas. However, the allegations that these sectors were injuring the implementation of the 2018 budget or that they were often made in the context of relativised withdrawals are, in my view, not factually true. Not only are we looking at the numbers of 18, where the closing account is about that there was a higher level of performance in both education and health, but let me say that in 2018 the government spent almost HUF 700 billion more on nominal education than in 2010 in healthcare. I agree that it is worth looking at real indicators in addition to nominal numbers. In addition to GDP, let us also take account of inflation rates. In the field of education, this increase is 44 percent, and in health care it is 45 percent. If we look at cumulative inflation, it is certain that the expenditure on these areas has increased below 20%, i.e. in real terms. [[13.20]] For GDP-related indicators, please allow us, for example, in the framework of the Széll Kálmán plan, to reduce pharmaceutical expenditure by reducing the burden on customers and, for example, shifting these surpluses to wage increases for health workers. Therefore, if we do not see any growth in certain years, in certain areas, I think we have made progress in quality of life. And if I mention wages, let me say that the wage-like expenditure of public finances, and here I have to argue with Mrs Krisztina Hohn, not only did they stay on the level or have many not increased their wages, but there has been a significant increase. Of course, we always want to provide more and more, but again, this increase was more than HUF 1400 billion between the facts of 2018 and the facts of 2010; this is a 53 percent increase. In particular, in the area of health, the increase in wage expenditure in health was 115%. I stress that inflation is below 20 percent. In the educational field, this increase was 48 percent. So also in the area of wage increases, I think there are some facts that cannot be denied. Regarding the social area, home care, Mr Csárdi pointed out this. The Member knows that home care has been expanded with a new area: children's home care fees have been introduced with higher care and increasing amounts; here we can indeed talk about a continuous, multi-stage increase in the coming years. There was also a wage measure in the social field, so I must deny the claim that nothing has happened here in the last ten years. The social workers received a sectoral bonus and a sectoral supplement. In the social field, there was also an additional measure for higher education graduates. The nursery was also mentioned: there was a wage increase for daycare workers, both in higher education and in secondary education. Of course, we are working on continuing this increase in wages, and I admit that I accept that people working conscientiously consider it necessary and appropriate for them to increase their wages in the coming years. I hope that the expansion of the Hungarian economy will continue to exceed the EU average in the coming years, and that the additional revenues will give us the opportunity to continue the wage increases in many areas. Finally, I think that there have also been comments on the opposition side that provide a basis for good professional debate. These include, for example, the direction in which fiscal policy should be taken. I agree with the opinions that, if we can achieve economic expansion beyond the EU average in the coming years, even lower levels of deficits should be set in order to reduce the cost of financing the debt burden that has been mentioned. That is why I think that, on the whole, even on the opposition side, either Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, or Mr Mellar, can support the fiscal policy that, moving forward on the basis of the 2018 year, will lead to a declining deficit path in 2019 and 2020 and thus an even more declining debt path. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-24-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2019-10-24-25	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the moment of grace, when it is not possible for a State Secretary to respond to me immediately, but vice versa, and I thank Mr State Secretary for a professional approach in certain cases. There is a debate between us, Mr Secretary, that today's discussion does not give rise to the vision that the government has laid on the table. I understand that they have produced an impressive economic growth from a relatively low base, typically with your foreign participation, but I am also glad that this performance is diversifying into more and more industries. At the same time, Mr State Secretary, in terms of GDP per capita, we have tried to fight Slovenia and the Czech Republic earlier in the EU Eastern bloc, and they have pulled past us in this competition, and we are now at a point where Slovakia, Poland, Estonia and Lithuania have also preceded us; this is the current situation. Secretary of State, I may not like it, because neither do I, Austria's GDP is 2.7 times the GDP of Hungary at the moment. The fact is that when they say that they are trying to catch up with Austria by 2030 or try to bring the prospects of the Hungarian economy up to the level of the Czech Republic, legitimate debates could be held, only the methodology of this is not indicated, how they imagine all this, how Hungarian workers are put in a position. We can see that while the gap between Austria and Hungary is so great, and in some years there has been no approach, but even a 3-percent distance, this vision is not sustainable. And once again, the numbers I have classified for Austria are the subject of comparison both in terms of GDP per capita and in terms of total GDP. What we see is that the gap is no doubt apparent, and the stalks of the scissors have typically not drawn close in recent years. So this is our problem: lack of vision and methodology. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-24-26	Thank you, Congressman. There will now be further speeches by Members in the order of the speakers who have registered in advance. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor F Kovács, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2019-10-24-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Honourable Members, If the discussion of closing accounts and the summary of closing accounts were to be summarised briefly and in a sentence, it could be said that never a worse year. However, we can see that based on the first data for 2019, it may not even be a record year, but we can surpass this 2018 too. Let's hope it's the end of the year. We can also say about this accounts that the Gyurcsány government would have given any of its best years for this 2018 marketing year. They may not have approached any indicator, at most in the absence of a budget, whether they were able to exceed these years in the debt increase or in the borrowing. I think we can discuss the best accounts for the last eleven years. Let us not forget that all praise is due to the Government and the Ministry of Finance, since this year is excellent, the accounts are excellent, but we must mention the partners with whom this could be made possible. It is necessary to mention the partners, the municipalities, who have worked with the same tight budget and the same exact accounting in recent years and in 2018 which has allowed the deficit not to go away, because when the state took over the credit burden of the municipalities, which they also had to take on during the Gyurcsány-Medgyessy government because of underfunding, then the municipalities could be able to create precise, precise and tight budgets with professional preparation. We had the human resources to do this, and we had the intention of putting a firm and accurate budget on the table not only for the government, but also for the municipalities. This human resource is still available, but it must be done with training and funding to ensure that it remains. Local authorities, whether county or local authorities, can continue to be expected to encourage the economy, to carry out the tendering process, since we can also say that it is a success story with EU funds, EU proposals and the management of TOP resources by county authorities, as this has contributed to the way in which the European Union agreed to the complexity with the government and municipalities. It also contributed to the ability of municipalities to push down the seemingly sedentary construction prices, since these construction and investment budgets were priced up to 2014-15, and they were able to do so by pushing them down the throat of the construction industry, perhaps reducing the price rise of the construction industry. [[13.30]] The State Audit Office should also be mentioned in cooperation. The State Audit Office has also done an excellent job as it is responsible for monitoring. A local government, a municipal manager, a finance officer always takes note of it with a gastric curve when there is control, but these checks are always forward-looking. I would ask the President of the State Audit Office to give more assistance to the controlled parties, the municipalities, whether professional or methodological, because cooperation is much better. The tax collection has also been mentioned here several times that tax collection and tax ethic have become much whiter. I think this is a very good thing, because from a sense of justice, a sense of social justice, it is much better to see that fewer and less tax avoidance, less and less businesses using the possibility of loopholes or tax evasion, and so much better to pay taxes from businesses to whom taxes are a heavy burden, but they are more and more likely to pay them. Let us say a few words about what is to be expected and what we can do in the future. It has been said that unemployment is low and that it is becoming increasingly difficult to re-enter the labour market which would be good to involve. This low unemployment is not evenly spread across the country. There are regions where there is a huge shortage of labour, and there are regions where, although there are still many cases of unskilled labour in the unemployment or public employment sector, there are already specific programmes for these regions. I am the Member of Parliament in a region where there are several such settlements, where unemployment is still relatively high, there are more people who can be involved in the labour market, but this requires training and the development of infrastructure to reach the surrounding settlements, and I think that this excellent unemployment rate, which is good enough for the European Union, can be further reduced. I hope that Mr Secretary of State will report on the next trend that has improved in the 2019 discharge debate, despite the fact that we can see that there is an economic slowdown in the leading countries of the European Union, but also in other countries, and that the year 2018 can be assessed as excellent, and that the year 2019 can be assessed on the basis of the data we have so far, because our partners with whom we conduct the largest trade flows are already heading towards a slowing down, so it can be said that the Hungarian economy and the budget are unicum, and not just a simple drink, Hungarian drink. I congratulate the Secretary of State and congratulate his colleagues and congratulate the Hungarians, the economic operators who have been able to participate in this good result with their work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-24-28	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2019-10-24-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As a member of the Defence Committee, I would like to talk to you primarily about the budget and accounts of the defence and home affairs portfolio, and I think that there are some things that can be mentioned in both areas, and, of course, there are big differences. The first and it may sound strange from the mouth of opposition politicians, but the first factual finding is that more money has been made in both areas. Obviously, as a politician in the defence field, one may welcome this at first sight even to the second. It doesn't matter what more money comes from. Let us mention it once again here, and remind ourselves, as well as kindly interested, watching citizens, that it was not difficult to give more money to the defence wallet, because in the budget of the 2013-14-15 years this is also apparent from the comparison of the accounts, and the government has reached the state of bleeding out the defence, but the additional source that has come to the development has already been shown in the '18 budget. Of course, both wallets also show a large amount of money in the fight against migration. These should only be treated separately because they do not reflect what real daily work and what real daily state aid is in these organisations, which are often one-off investments or one-off overtime payments, so I would not include this in the trends in this respect. The other common point, and this is less romantic, is that, especially at HM, there is simply unpredictable secrecy about alleged purchases of a hundred billion, not tens of thousands. The reason why I am saying this is because as a member of the Defence Committee, we have not been able to listen to one more concrete piece of paper, a specific report from recent years, about what and how much the Hungarian Defence Agency actually bought. For example, the development of rigid wing flying capacity, which sounds like this professionally, and the purchase of passenger carriers and quasi-private and luxurious goods, has not yet been made clear what is going on with these machines, who uses it exactly, how, especially not, that the government has misinterpreted, in some cases even specifically lied about the existence of machines, because in the initial weeks, months, thanks to the 2018 election year, the defense portfolio even denied that the Hungarian government bought two of these little jets, talked about only one. As I understand it, we are at the moment that one is in the army, and the other is in the army with a civilian legion, only God knows what he is doing and whose services he is serving, but not the soldiers of Hungary, it is almost certain. The third common point is the situation of the stock, the salaries, the overtime. The sad thing is that there are very serious problems here, especially in the area of internal affairs, but also in the area of defence, but I will explain this in a more detailed analysis. If you look at the budget or closing account of the defense wallet, one can tell you that everything I said at the beginning comes out of it, so that there is extra money and that it is inexactly untraceable when and how it is spent. Huge amounts are transferred from one year to another, and huge amounts of contracts are signed in one year with actual payments in the following year, so the actual expenditure of the portfolio and the actual budget support lines and differences between them are very confusing. One shows a negative and the other shows a serious plus, but again, obviously, this is primarily, if I understand correctly, because some purchases take place over the years. I would like to emphasise here once again, and if we were in such a mood just now, the Minister of State also held a very fair, civilised professional debate here, so help the Hungarian Parliament with its government to ensure that the most basic rules are complied with by the Ministry of Defence. It is nonsense that a National Defence and Police Committee, a National Assembly which, in principle, provides cover for the defence wallet and its purchase, has not known for two and a half years what the Hungarian Defence and Hungarian Government have been buying for, how much, from and why. It is nonsense, Mr. Secretary of State that it is necessary to know from foreign journals that you buy war equipment from the United States for hundreds of billions of forints, or not that you have to know from the newspaper that, by the way, Hungary, which is condemned by the European Union, almost vetoed by Turkey, which is in a rather brutal form of armed action against the Kurdish minority, that Hungary is buying weapons from them only through the Prime Minister or through a company belonging to his business and friends. [[13.40]] It's outrageous! It is also that we ask these cases to be on the agenda, separately, the helicopter, the aircraft, the missile acquisition, and simply whether or not HM will come and not report on them, or whether the majority of Lajos Kósa itself and the Fidesz fraction will ensure that the issue is not on the agenda. So how can the National Assembly have any control function? And everyone acknowledges that I think that all of the opposition representatives in the committee should be discussed, if necessary, in a closed session, in such a way that the vast majority of these details cannot be made public. But, Mr. Secretary of State, if this is not about industrial theft, then what will prevent the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Minister of Defence from coming in and showing us proudly what good business the Hungarian State has made? Why do you have to hide everything, and basically ignore the house rules, smashed in the dirt here for years, keeping secrets about all these cases? Also on the former subject, let me quote one sentence from the closing report: military engagement against the Islamic State in the case of the Hungarian Defence Office was to support the preparation of the Kurdish forces in Iraq; sorry, this comment, in particular, says the quote:. The international engagement against terrorism is noteworthy from the point of view of the current Hungarian foreign policy stance; as part of the international tasks, military engagement against the Islamic State remains of paramount importance. In addition, Hungary plays a significant role in military missions in Afghanistan and the Balkans. By the way, the Hungarian government speaks of the importance of military engagement against the Islamic State, which has been shown specifically in the fact that the Hungarian Army is training Kurdish soldiers to act against the Islamic State armed, sacrificing their lives most, not just risking their lives, while the Hungarian government is, by the way, in a jolly business and tweaking with the Turkish government who virtually assaults another branch of the Kurdish people without any real reason or authority. Here we would like to strongly protest against the matter, and, by the way, my fellow Member Mesterházy and I submitted a resolution proposal before it was discovered the other day that the Turks were trying to circumvent international bans through a team, and we would like the Parliament to support the fact that until the Turks stop this aggression for good, the Hungarian government and Hungary will obtain nothing from Turkey in the world, no more weapons. As far as defense is concerned, we don't know about the numbers. Because the other question was that for decades, at least every year since the change of regime, the closing account included the actual numbers of the military, so it could be compared that it is decreasing year after year, growing or stagnating. Now, a few years ago, when the shortage of personnel was probably insufferable, you guys just took this out of the lockdown and encrypted the number of defenses, and I'm gonna add, it's like not even members of the Defense Committee have access to it. So it's a question of faith, who believes what's written in this proposal, that everything's great in this area, and we have an awful lot of soldiers, and we're very good. Well, with this specificness and seriousness, we have a record of the number of people. I honestly say, Mr. Secretary, that I don't believe what's written there. I can only believe that if you bring in a sequence of numbers and show me how many soldiers, how many contractors and how many other employees are in the military bond. We listened to the eulogy for years while once the Chief of Staff came in, who is currently the minister by the way, and accidentally told us that there was perhaps a 30 percent shortage of personnel in the army a few years ago. [[Bence of Tordai will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] Which is a much bigger problem, and I would reflect on you here too, he said that the income growth was 8.5 percent record size, the increase in wages, in the 18th century. Well, then, you can't be so proud of the area you're responsible for, Mr. Secretary of State, because in your own account, it says that in the overall area of defence, on average, the chapter average was 2.85. And, you know, it's even worse that I can read this from the fact that it was written in the closing accounting law, and in addition, in the contract crew, while we're talking about decylis here in the military, there was a mean reduction in payments in 2018 specifically. How much the market companies have raised on the wages of Hungarian workers so that they do not go away is one thing, Mr. State Secretary, but how much you have raised, for example, the state administration, the defence, the police, or I could bring the untenable state of government agencies here, on the wages of the public servants, in order to stay and do their job with honor, you cannot be so proud of that. As far as the chapter of the Ministry of Interior is concerned, I could also point out that although there were many one-off investments, and they also took place 100 percent before the Defence Committee on the basis of the migration situation, there was little to know and see who did these works for, and why, and how much, they were done for, there is also quite hairy among them. Maybe I won't tell you a big state secret if I keep it quiet that I think it's a little strong when a country has to secretly acquire the ToiToi toilets in the context of national security or migration. I hope the toilet paper's still on sale. As far as the Counter-Terrorism Center is concerned, of course, we have everything twice. It is so obvious that there is money, for example, nearly 500 million, to protect Minister Peter Szijjártó from a new crew of 52, specifically in one person. It's got money, steeds, guns, equipment, wages, new cars and everything for the whole team. I think a small government would be pleased to have so much money and people to work for its citizens, but I'm sure there's a reason why 52 people have to protect the foreign minister. What is dramatic is still the situation of the execution of the sentence, which can be seen from the numbers of the. 18 account. And although something is tasteless, so I could put it this way, they wrote a eulogy in this closing account, in the field of prison execution there is a total disaster, Mr. Secretary of State, and I will tell you this every time here: the number of employees, the number of employees, the actual number of employees, and the number of employees. We are here, Mr Secretary of State, that in Eastern Hungary advertisements will be made in various colourful newspapers, that they are looking for security guards to guard prisons. It's pretty amazing. And what I know from the union and the people who work there is that they don't even get paid as much as they can pay. And after the time has run out, I would just like to point out the most important thing: Minister of State, there is no need for an actual wage increase in the Ministry of Interior. It's inevitable! You know exactly what a shortage of numbers is, you can see exactly, the 6 million overtime that happened only at the police station in 2018, the one-time, one-year outlier would be terrible, but this is not the case here, it's simply starting to collapse systematically in the prison, the firefighters and the police. We said a year ago that we needed a 30-percent wage increase. We say that they need a 50 percent next step, even though they've done this by 50 percent in five years, it's now vanished compared to market players, and it's simply unable to keep people in the area. Secretary of State, after four years of service, there is no greater waste of money in the world. Here, in the area of law enforcement, make money in the budget and do the raise. Thank you for listening.
u2019-10-24-30	Thank you, Congressman. A two-minute comment is possible. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu. [[13.50]]
u2019-10-24-31	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I would like to comment on the local government chapter, although in the oral amendment very little has been said on the part of the State Audit Office and on the part of the State Secretary. I would also like to point out that in his reply, however, he stressed that the minimum wage was raised by 8 percent and that the guaranteed wage was paid by 12 percent. But you didn't know what the source was. The source of this was that the municipalities had to implement it with their own money. At a political press conference, it was announced that the government had decided today, that is the mandatory increase, and that the municipalities had to implement it. With a delay of seven to eight months, about 20 percent of this was offset by the government. I think it is inappropriate for all municipalities to have 1000-1200 employees in this area, the kindergarten employee, the kindergarten employee, the social worker, and there are other servants who are responsible for the cleanliness and operation of the city, the wages of those people are paid by the municipalities without saying a word about the fact that they do not give normative support, the government does not give one-off support, but they pay off local taxes collected by the municipalities, because the municipalities have no other source than tax payments. And it has not been said that the operation of nationalised public education institutions is carried out by the municipalities by means of a solidarity tax, with their assets being taken away without compensation. Cleanliness is part of that. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-24-32	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki in a normal time frame.
u2019-10-24-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Between 2006 and 2010, I sat on a committee with the DK Member who spoke before me. It would have been nice to read the speech you just made. As a former mayor, I recall exactly when the socialists raised the wages of teachers by having to be managed by the municipalities, and even by not having compensation, but simply by taking on various loans by the municipalities. So this critical remark I would have liked to have listened to when you were in the government. He added that it is tax-based, as it is the sole source of revenue for municipalities. At the time, even the local government institutions, such as the school, were subject to the maintenance of a local government, and in settlements where there was little or no local business tax, it was necessary to put it in favour of a teacher's wage increase because you forced the municipalities to do so. So I think it's a little discredited from your mouth. I listened to Congressman Bellozó. I'm not a defense politician, but I don't think he's a foreign minister. It's very interesting, the way you deal with the Syrian question quickly, although if you were to get a little deeper, you might see that this is a much more complicated situation and a much more complicated situation. I would ask him if he knew that, let's say, among Turkish MPs, of course, not the Turkish HDP, members of the Kurdish Party, but the governing parties, let's say, among the members of the AKP, are members of Vane Kurdish origin. Of course, the ruling party also has Kurdish, Kurdish Turkish representatives. I think it's really weird from here, really, if someone decides with a sentence and a half what the government does or doesn't do about Syria, or if the Turkish-Syrian conflict can be dealt with here in Parliament with a sentence. Mr. Bell was talking all along about some kind of witch kitchen running through the defense purse. I do not forget that Márta Demeter, who was sitting in your group, signed a nondisclosure statement as a member of the Defence Commission, and then, interestingly, in violation of his parliamentary obligation, made public. It is always the opposition's job, when it closes, when it is budgeted, that it is completely wrong, that it is absolutely tragic, and I understand that; we see it differently from the government side. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila József Móring.]] Believe me, I know the local government much better than you do, and the members of the local government see the situation differently, the people who live in the countryside. I am a parliamentary representative of an area with 88 settlements. Of the 88 settlements, there are two cities of more than 5,000 inhabitants, two cities of less than 5 thousand inhabitants, so 86 settlements of less than 5 thousand inhabitants. The people living here, the local leaders who live here, were very pleased that this government was finally thinking about the fact that people live in the countryside and in the village, and that it introduced the Hungarian village programme. The Hungarian village program has a dual purpose, on the one hand it gives the opportunity to move to the countryside, to a village, and on the other, to create an opportunity for anyone who is born in a village and who wants to live in a village, which gives him a worthy opportunity to stay there. The Hungarian village program has 2873 settlements of less than 5 thousand inhabitants in Hungary today, and only 72 settlements out of 2873 thought that they would not use the announcements of the Hungarian village, and 95-96 percent thought that they did, because the small subsidies that help the local housing in the settlement are also important for him. And speaking of vision, the vision also includes the vision of the Hungarian government to keep people in small towns and villages. Ten sub-programmes are in critical phase. Former sub-programmes such as the development of municipal community spaces, the development of church community spaces, medical clinics and medical devices have already been evaluated. Believe me, in an area where I live, where, as I said, there are small settlements, the people living in the small settlement were very pleased with these subsidies, since the development of the regional operational programme did not always give the municipalities the right opportunity. This was a bottom-up initiative, an initiative that takes into account the aims and opportunities of people living in rural areas. Let's have a word about the village CHOK. I am delighted that the village CSOK can be used in settlements of less than 5,000 inhabitants, where the number of settlements does not decrease. It is very important that the number of settlements does not decrease, because in the eastern part of the country, where I am a Member of Parliament, there are quite a few settlements in the neighbourhood of Transcarpathia where, on the one hand, Hungarians in Transcarpathia buy real estate and, on the other hand, because of various social indicators, there are settlements with no shrinking population, despite the fact that we are 330 kilometers away from Budapest, but are growing. At the time, the LHH, which was adopted under socialist governance, was remembered by socialist representatives, when 28 constituencies of the LHH region were renamed under our government into a complex development area, extended, and in my constituency, among the 88 settlements, apart from the two major cities, they can use the village CSOK in each settlement. And how popular is this among people? I posted on my Facebook page the 86 settlements that were affected by this, and in two hours six hundred were not like, but share. So the people, the voters living in the villages, feel precisely that the Hungarian government also has a vision for the villager, they understand and acknowledge that there is obviously a lot of it, so we must also get to the village. The development of the larger cities, Budapest, has obviously preceded the development of the village, but the villagers are extremely happy that today during the program of the Hungarian village and during the small town program, which is likely to increase in the following year, the development opportunities will reach the Hungarian village. This was seen in the results of the municipal elections, as the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county received the highest Fidesz vote at national level, where I would not say rich people live. [[14.00]] But people remember the time when you governed, remember the time you promised, what you took, how you cut people off. And now they're feeling that they're credible people representing the country, and there are credible people there as local city leaders, Fidesz mayor and regional MP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-24-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai.
u2019-10-24-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I respond very briefly to the comments of Mr Tamás Harangozó and Mr László Hajdu. As far as the defence chapter is concerned, the closure report provides a detailed account of how the defence expenditures have evolved. In a document with more than one hundred pages, from page 1799 in the general explanation, I think there is quite a lot of information about closing accounts, including what kind of assets the defence has purchased. Of course, Congressman knows that there are classified information that can be accessed separately, but I repeat, we are also talking about the main lines in the chapter justifications. Another important thing, which Mr President has also mentioned, is that we should not go aside from having an average 50 percent wage increase, and if we look at cumulative inflation since 2010, this means a substantial real wage increase for defence workers and domestic workers as well. Another issue is that, in addition, the Hungarian economy as a whole has started to catch up on wages, which in fact means that there is a need for labour and, where appropriate, the competitive sphere attracts workers from the home affairs and defence areas. What I can tell you is that in the budget adopted next year, there is a budget of HUF 150 billion in scale, from which a wage increase can be achieved. The government has not yet decided on specific areas of this, but, of course, our intention is clear and wage increases can be made on the basis of the budgetary framework in the light of growth. The government is handling the issue. It wasn't a real, definitive decision. As to Mr László Hajdu's comments, I must nuance the opinion of the Member, because in 2018, the extra expenditure of raising the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage was compensated by the State in the case of lower tax authorities. It wasn't what Congressman said. Indeed, there are local authorities with greater tax power and a substantial increase in their revenue, which has increased their revenue to such an extent as to enable additional expenditure to be made possible. In addition to this compensation, it is worth saying again that the municipal system as a whole is closed in 2018 with a surplus, as in previous years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-24-36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi.
u2019-10-24-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about higher education in terms of closing accounts and then on public education without the need for completeness. Therefore, higher education is currently seen at our reading as a clear indication of the very biased and very distorted nature of higher education policy in the 2018 Budget Act. In the absence of the National University of Public Service, the funding of the operating budget of public universities and colleges was only 9 percent higher than the planned budget for 2018, including the Corvinus University, which has been privatised in the meantime, while the operating support for non-state higher education was more than 25 percent higher. The funding of the operating costs of the National University of Public Service was almost 2.5 times as planned in the Finance Act. If you look at the personal benefits within the operating costs, for example, with their contributions, then the National University of Public Service was more than double the performance compared to the planned for 2018, while the other state universities had only 20 percent. In terms of the beneficiaries' cash benefits, the liking of the National University of Public Service by the government is even more striking, because while the implementation of this appropriation is more than 3.5 times the planned one, the overachievement in other public universities is less than 10 per cent. In particular, there is a radical decline in appropriations to support the quality of higher education compared to the plan. The combined planned amount of excellence grants and the Higher Education Structure Transformation Fund was nearly HUF 30 billion in the 2018 plan, the previous 27 and the last 2.2 billion. The textual account of the wallet that has so far overseen higher education is, as usual, meaningless, superficial, essentially repeating the same texts over the years, with Ctrl+C and Ctrl+V. For example, student mobility, which is an extremely important EU priority, is written around one page without a single accurate numerical figure. Last year's report at least had some figures as a starting point for student mobility, and this year it is not. Or, for example, the change of course about the material called the "Programme in Higher Education" has been the same half page for years, the last paragraph of which is updated only constantly, because, please, here the current year is entered again and again. At the same time, there is a shameful table below which demonstrates the freezing of Hungarian higher education, i.e. the state scholarship training and the number of persons enrolled in 2014 was 62 150, in 2015 61 088, in 2016 62 379, in 2017 62 062, in 2018 63 532. I would remind you of the number of state-supported students for another two years. The number of people admitted to state scholarship training in 2010 was 72 368, and in 2009 too, in the middle of the crisis 67 744, so it can be said that in the middle of the crisis we hired more state-funded children and students than Fidesz in 2018. [[On the sign of Péter Benő Banai:]] Yes, tell me, Secretary of State, I will respond to this: demography is not as drastically reduced as you are reducing the number of people in higher education. That's the thing. And I'm not saying it, it's not a political suggestion. Sir, you can count, numbers are stubborn. The report also provides the 2018 statistical data, the 2018-2019 academic year opening data, that the number of students in higher education institutions with an active status is 245,764, of which state-supported, state-supported, public-service scholarships, 161,776 persons, and 119,769 students with reimbursement and cost. Now, let's not get caught up in the fact that 119 769 students and 161 676 state-supported students together do not issue 245 thousand, but 281 445 students. Please try to correct this in the document. And finally, if we look at the number of students between 2010 and 2019, it will make clear the Fidesz government's higher education policy, which has shifted from the developed world, which has resulted in the number of students falling by 25 percent during their regency. This, please, can be described as a dramatic number and dramatic ratio by all nations, and I am very, very afraid that in the coming years they will retaliate even more, so they will cut it out of higher education, and they will not allow Hungarian children, young Hungarians, to the detriment of all nations. Dear House, Mr. Secretary of State and fellow Members. Then allow me to go to public education now, also without the need for completeness. I've picked up the most important points I've ever considered in a few, like, 9 to 10 points, but I'm pretty sure there's a whole lot of things that could happen here. So I'd like to start by saying that in 2018 it continued to how to put it, the complete scam show, the government even cheated on its own promise, because it didn't give up the last 5 percent in the wage increase, which would have been the last part of the so-called 50 percent wage increase that lasted for several years, because it didn't want a penny in the budget for a quality wage supplement. He thought that he would then rename the normal wage as a replacement, and then he left it to the directors to whom to give it to, but it didn't go under the lease. Teachers can hope for any increase in wages under the law at the earliest in 2020, when the extreme situation has emerged today, and it is also tragic that the guaranteed minimum wage, i.e. the minimum wage for skilled workers, is higher than the salary of starting teachers on the pay table, which, I must say, is also shameful. [[14.10]] In addition, the government's foresight management led, for example, to an unfair and humiliating memory of the nation's day labor on the vast majority of school districts at the 2018 schoolteacher's day; please, a box of biscuits, a marzipan heart, a sluggish tulip, where the school district had an e-mail to the colleagues. This also shows the material conditions prevailing in public education. It is not possible for those dedicated, professional teachers, teachers and teachers to be entrusted with the education and education of the nation's future to feel worthy to respect the whole country at least one day, while, for example, I would like to say that the funds for government propaganda are growing, growing, growing, and who knows where to stop. I would also like to mention that the institutions are now owned only by the municipalities on paper, and it is no wonder that because of years of lack of modernisation of the institutions, buildings, equipment, technical tools, and others, our children spend most of their time in many places in fallen, decayed conditions. Even though we proposed at the time of the budget to make a fairer amount for the renovation of schools, a reasonable and reasonable amount, the government did not make a fair or reasonable decision. Continued: the number of foundational and private schools, most of which provide a substitute for the state, is out of the question, but due to insufficient support frameworks, many private schools have been able to build their own clientele from expensive tax forints, and a high-priced private school has been created from expensive tax forints to enrich their own environment. Since in recent years, and this is not a negligible aspect, diagnostic procedures have become much modernized, autism and mild disability are also discovered in more and more small children. In spite of the fact that we have proposed a higher amount to build autistic homes, the biggest shortage of housing homes is that the government did not care about the needs of the children in need, unfortunately. I would also like to mention that, as the number of students who, due to their situation, break down from their peers who are able to keep pace with the not always reasonable needs of the education system is increasing, the number of professionals who can help in this situation is constantly falling from development educators to psychologists. There are many dedicated educators who, in addition to their strength, are doing their best to prevent latency and to succeed in catching up. A hundred of these teachers were awarded the Teleki Blanka Prize and 300 thousand forints a year in our period. Where's today's box of crackers and the fucking tulips they've been giving me on teacher's day! ? So we rewarded 100 people with 300 thousand forints, who work in the most difficult or one of the most difficult areas of public education, while the current government doesn't even guarantee their decent wages, and what it gave has even cheated off the last 5 percent of it. I would also like to talk about how by centralizing textbooks, you have achieved so much that schools are throwing money away on poor quality and useless textbooks. They were unable to find a solution so that students and teachers would not be disadvantaged during education because of poor textbooks and quality textbooks, and parents would not have to contribute unjustified extra costs to quality education. Well, how does that fit in, please, with the free education you've been propaganda? ! Nothing, please. Continued: 2018 was the year of families, at least according to you. There was a national consultation, another rubber bone. Just because I keep telling you that this is the year of families doesn't make anyone feel better. What they could say about this consultation and the related fuss, when our everyday experience is that child protection and related justice are virtually impossible in Hungary now, not least because of the minimization of the budget allocated to this, so the costs for this are as impossible as the whole system is. Finally, according to 2017 surveys, 220 thousand young Hungarians have not studied or worked in Hungary. 220,000 young Hungarians! I'm telling you twice that you might understand. According to Eurostat statistics, this figure is tragic! In 2018, with your blessing, it continued to grow, some 100,000 of them will no longer work for the rest of their lives, or, if so, only public work, as you pushed them out of education at 16 years of age without any professional qualifications, often with the difficulty of reading and writing. But not only without professional qualifications; please, the number of children who have fallen out of the public education system not only without professional but also without primary education has reached 100,000. What are we gonna do with this? What will the next governments do with this, sir? I just don't understand these numbers, putting the lives of all these kids to shit. Their minimum support will therefore be imposed on those who are able to work. It makes sense, doesn't it? Does this consequence belong to the budget? The work-based society, Orbán's great slogan, would still require some skills in the 21st century. It's a century! With this humiliating situation, Hungary is in the last third of the EU rankings with a 13.3 percent ratio, and the situation is worse in only nine countries. Unfortunately, it's a nice item in the accounts. I would repeat, Mr Secretary of State, that the decline in the number of children in Hungary does not justify such drastic removal of Hungarian children and young people from both higher education and public education; there is a much higher proportion of those you have dropped out in recent years. And the fact is that the work-based society cannot live up to the vocational training and the public education that you have produced here in recent years. This was even better in the Kádár system, I must say, the XXI. In the first century, children face challenges where their abilities should be developed. But what do I expect when, in the debate on vocational training, one of the Fidesz MEPs told me not to preach on the other side, because today a skilled worker has enough to hold a hammer and a wrench, especially for a mechanic. Well, I'm telling you, man, we're not fixing Trabants and Wartburgs, we're fixing Audis, Mercedes and BMWs to mention just the three car factories that are still here. But what if they don't? Then what? ! So I have to say, you can't clean up nearly 100 to 100 thousand children and young people from public education and higher education. This will bring our precious country and our nation into such a deep crisis of knowledge, which will bring Hungary to terrible challenges, poverty will wait for us if it stays this way, because the economy will change too quickly to make the Hungarian nation so dumb. CHAPTER XXI No nation in the century can afford this because it will lead to collapse. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-24-38	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy in two minutes.
u2019-10-24-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At first, if I have two minutes, I'd respond to Congressman Tilki. On the one hand, thank you very much for admitting that there was a 50 percent increase in wages in our government. This must have been a rare honest attack from a Fidesz congressman, because so far everything has been bad, and it's all been a meltdown. He still forgot to add that normative support was involved at the time, not only the management of the wage burden was the responsibility of the municipalities. And as for the election results in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, let me note that I would like to know how the 150-200 people announced in the 40 square meters house have changed the election result for Fidesz, since they were so enthusiastic about how many people there voted for Fidesz. And he said that the result of this election there in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County was formed in this way, in favour of Fidesz, because they remember how Fidesz governs and how the previous ones steered. I would like to remind my fellow Member that in 10 of the 23 cities with county rights, there was an opposition victory, obviously remembering how we governed. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-24-40	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy in a normal time frame.
u2019-10-24-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It is difficult to speak after the MSZP speeches, but I still think that I would deal with the 2018 bill, because I have to say that this law contained a number of measures affecting the economy that had a positive impact on the country's life on important aspects, and that would be good and that we should talk about them. [[14.20]] I remember that in 2010, when the Fidesz government was founded, what economic situation and financial situation we inherited, and when it was made public that more than 80 percent of the country's annual deficit for the elections, a small kind of financial tsunami came to Hungary, and we got this from the MSZP, inherited it, and had to start with this. Now, compared to this, I think it is almost unbelievable for me to read these figures, and I am very pleased that the deficit in the government sector represented 2.3 percent of GDP, isn't it, that's better than what we planned, and the level of public debt has gradually decreased and has now fallen to 70 percent. If someone told us that in 2010, I think we wouldn't have believed it either. So I must say that I agree with my fellow Members who said earlier that this was a very important economic policy objective that has been achieved. For my part, I am also pleased that the foreign exchange ratio has decreased in financing the deficit, as in 2011, it amounted to 52 percent, which has now fallen to 23 percent by 2018, and the deficit rate financed by foreigners has fallen from 65 percent to 36 percent. This also proves that the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people have been further strengthened, as they have been able to participate in this. GDP growth was at 4.3 percent planning level in this draft law, which is 5.1 percent based on current preliminary facts. The change in the consumption price index, despite all opposition negative rumors, could be maintained and even better than the plan, since instead of 3 per cent, it was only 2.8 per cent. And what I am very pleased about as a man who became a politician from the area of life, where the world of work was the determining factor, was that the productivity rate increased by 4 percent instead of 2.4 percent. I consider it important that the investment share was 25,2 per cent instead of the planned 20 per cent. We are also pleased that the increase in employment has not stopped, but has increased further, by more than 1.1 percent. In the public sector, 3 percent fewer people work and 2 percent more in the competition sector. I thought this was very important, because we have now started talking about the fact that, compared to the 2010s and the last ten years, almost 800 thousand more people are working, and in 18, when the budget started to be implemented, more than 700 thousand people worked in the previous period, and more than 70 percent of it was an employee out of the competition sector. We also talked a lot about EU developments, and I have to say that, although there is a general debate, I would like to say a few things, because one does have a constituency, which perhaps knows its details better than other constituencies, and perhaps it is better to understand why we think that Hungary has entered a rising path. During the EU's development between 14 and 20, we have repeatedly said that the aim is to try to use 60% of these amounts for economic development, economic recovery and job creation, and I have to say, as former county president, that we have also set this goal and that we have achieved improvements in a number of areas. And these hundreds of billions of forints, I think, went to the right place, and I say this not only because the Germans have already said that about us, but it may also be seen in our villages and in our cities. I've written down a few items that may be related to the economy. For example, the Pellér industrial park, where the majority of the work was achieved in 2018. When this project started, they were able to sell three of the 28 sites, when we handed them over in festive terms in February, then 26 of the 28 sites were owned, and more than ten buildings were there, and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs populated this industrial park. But he did get a lot of things, didn't he, about the municipalities, in Szigetvár the gymnasium, the school was renovated energyally. That was very important, and Mr Secretary of State also spoke in his head about the fact that we were able to make a lot of progress in terms of health as well. Such were the EU projects where we built new rescue stations, or we were getting new ambulances or building a new fire station. This was very important in rural Hungary, so that we could finally produce the EU exit averages. Now, if you don't give me God, someone needs an ambulance, they can get to Sasd in 15 minutes. There were times when an ambulance got there in 40 to 45 minutes. I have often observed what my fellow opposition Members have said before, and they have always said that this problem needs to be solved, and it has never been solved. Now this has been resolved. What I am very pleased about is that, in terms of public employment, programmes have been launched that are unique. With regard to three villages, Drávacseh, Száporca and Tésenfa, a project of the Ministry of Interior was launched from sources provided by the Hungarian government, where a pig farm was built, and a slaughterhouse and processing plant for which local products can appear. And I am very pleased that a multi-chain has also taken up these investments, because one of these products will be available in a multi-chain. I'm not gonna say his name for commercials. What I am most pleased about is that in this budget it has been possible, after many years, for the Hungarian government to delegate Hungarian funds to various developments. In my constituency, two important decisions were made in 2018. One of the Harkány cities, which has been left out of EU development in recent years, has received 3.8 billion forints for the development of the city's spa in December. And what might indicate is what huge changes have been made in the Hungarian economy and budget policy: I remember that when a municipality won an EU tender, say, before 2014, everyone started scratching to get the hell out of us, we won, but how we're gonna do it, how we're gonna finance it. There's a big difference. Now the government has decided, and even within a few days of his decision, the city has received the contract and received the first hundreds of millions of dollars at the time indicated in the contract. This is also true of the EU project: when a municipality wins a project, they conclude the contract with it and receive the money in advance, which it has to manage in a separate account. And he doesn't have to take credit, he doesn't have to worry about what and how he'll be able to finance the investment himself, and how the contractor or subcontractors pay off the main contractor. These are significant changes that, if we think about it, I have to say, in this regard, it may not have been possible to expect. And I think that this is an exemplary achievement in the past period, because we could not have dreamed that such a situation would ever come up in the financing of investments. The same decision was made in the case of Vajszló, as well as in the case of the surrounding settlements, the support for industrial development and the support for sewerage, also from Hungarian sources and non-EU sources. There, too, almost immediately after the conclusion of the contract, the amount of money that could be used to start the work or to carry out the preparations. In 2018, the Prime Minister himself announced the Hungarian village program in 2018, which uses only Hungarian resources. I know it went on to 2019, but the decision was made in 2018. I have drawn up a list of objectives that this programme has set out to help the countryside: the development of religious community spaces, the strengthening of national and local identity, medical offices, equipment parks, building of homes, the service-building programme, the development of equipment, pavements, road renovations, the renovation, construction of daycare, kindergartens, renovation of kindergartens and daydreams, renovation of mayor's offices, and renovation of the cemetery. [[14.30]] Our villages are looking forward to the tender results of the village and folklore services. There has not been such a programme since the change of regime, and even if we consider the last 30-40 years, perhaps there has not been such a rural development programme in the last 40 years. I would like to say this in any case, since the implementation of the 2018 Budget Act and its strict fiscal policy have also contributed to achieving this programme in 19 years. If you'll allow me, perhaps I would still be talking about families, because I think that this is extremely important for the countryside, and not only for the countryside, but also for the cities. We talked a lot about the life situation of people here, so I wrote out some data for myself: for example, the minimum wage rose by 15 percent in 2017, the minimum wage increased by an additional 8 percent in 18, the minimum wage by 25 percent in 17 and 12 percent in 18, the pensioner's case was already mentioned, the pension premium and the Erzsébet voucher were given, the pensioner's inflation basket was below the pension increase, if minimum but below. I think this is very important. We have read numbers in both gross and net wage increases that, I think, over the past 20-30 years, seem almost unbelievable: this is 11,3% in the competition sector, 10.9 percent in the public sector, and 12.1 percent in the public sector. I would like you to think about this one more time, because there really hasn't been much of an example of this since the change of regime, and I'm sure there hasn't been an example. Families with children: In 2016 from HUF 10 thousand to HUF 12 500, in 17 from HUF 12 500 to HUF 15 000, in 18, at the third pace, families with two children increased their monthly tax relief per child. This represents HUF 35 thousand per month, with a maximum of HUF 420 thousand per year, i.e. net HUF 60,000 more for families raising two children in 2018. In 2018, the decision to separate the tax relief from the family tax on marriage and the founding of a family came into force, so this could be taken into account. What I would like to say briefly, but with a very, very great emphasis, is a fundamental change in the diet of children. I come from an area of urban structure where I dare to say it in recent years, let's say five years ago it was a concept that could unfortunately be lived there. From 2015 on, the reform of children's meals in terms of funding began in the nursery and kindergarten, and the government started to provide meals through the institutional network during the break. After the summer break, this was added to the autumn and winter holidays, and I have to say that in the case of parents and children who are disadvantaged, I claim that in many places in our area child hunger has been abolished by the Hungarian government, the Orbán government. I also think it is very important to add to this, although there have been many criticisms of education here that, in terms of book supply, we have also made great progress on education year after year in order to move towards free textbook provision. I also think it is very important that, in order for young families with children to be able to take up work, we also offer children's parents the opportunity to enter and work on the primary labour market, by mini-cradles, crèches, and by continuing to develop kindergarten care. That's all it took 15 minutes. I wanted to tell you a few more things, but thank you very much for your attention. I ask all my fellow Members to adopt this bill, because the country went in a very good direction with this year 2018. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-24-42	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-10-24-43	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to deal with one or two segments of the social chapter, all the more so, because, on the one hand, in relation to services, their support and social security pension, there were several key speakers here on the opposition side who said that in 2018 the state had more than expected in terms of the distribution of public expenditure, and a small amount of welfare expenditure, but if we look at it in detail, there was nothing in this social area, because of the 2.5 percent increase only this area did not benefit from it. As we have read the general justification, according to this, the share of the amounts allocated to the so-called other social support function has even decreased, from 2.2 percent to 2 percent. It is true, and I recognise this, that it has played a role in reducing expenditure on property purchases and investments carried out by the National Asset Manager. If I remember correctly, there was a quota of 36,000 apartments that they could make. So, as I said, not only did you get less in the social field in proportion to GDP this year, but also in relation to the planned one, if you look at the expenditure in detail. As I said, in the case of social services and subsidies, for the year 18 of the holiday meal, my fellow Member should have some time, because I remember that HUF 6.6 billion was planned, and in the end only HUF 3.3 billion was spent, virtually half of what was planned. I don't know what the reason is: either they were badly designed, or the municipal authorities didn't take the trouble, and they didn't require food for the needy children. I think we can clear that up later. Here's what we've seen in daycare support. It is typical for the whole budget to work, I think, that, while nearly HUF 13 billion was spent on the support of crèches, as it was accepted, the lines were significantly mixed up in the course of the year, we experienced this. This is probably the innovation of the family-friendly government in the design, which can be seen in the table below. We have prepared such a comparative table for ourselves, which shows that the budget and closing accounts are not even the same in the title of appropriations. One of the reasons for this is that during the year, a so-called nursery supplement was introduced by the government decision, with HUF 13.5 billion. The beauty flaw is that during the year it was reduced to HUF 8.8 billion. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, As I mentioned, one of the key elements of social assistance is the pension minimum. I have to mention that this 28 500 HUF has been unchanged for 11 years now. I think it's pointless to talk about whether it's too much or not. If someone gets that much, there's no need to argue about it because it can't be assigned for a month. That's one thing. Another: I recently found a series of statistical numbers, which revealed that out of the pensioners, pensioners will also receive a pension of HUF 28 500 in Hungary, at 17 777. Okay, I know some of these people have partial pensions, or some of them have lived only a fraction of their lives in Hungary, but I still think that this is unworthy of pensioners and older people. If we look at the figures, there is one more thing that will come out of this, namely the amount of subsidies requested on a variety of fairness grounds. I'd like to spend a bit of time on this because this year, we're talking about 2018, pensions have risen by 3 percent, and within pensions, there is a form of support in which I see a terrible business. This has now been going on for about two years or more, this is a question of warcare benefits. [[14.40]] In this chapter treatment, over 14 billion people were set up for these payments, amounting to HUF 14.2 billion, while a year earlier, according to the closing account, only HUF 8.6 billion was set; there is a 60 percent increase. I have received information many times that there are counties in Borsod County, for example, where it is not only about a large county in its population, but that they are doing business with it; that people are being talked about, that I will arrange for it to have such an allowance for war care, but there are also different rules between counties. So I had a plaintiff who told me that someone in one county had received the same treatment on the same condition, and they didn't get the treatment in the county next door. But hold on, my fellow Members, there were two brothers, one of whom married in one county, and there lived two neighboring settlements, say, one of them was from Földöksd and the other was from Andornaktálya; and they got it in Andornaktálya, and they didn't get it in Mezőkövesden. More specifically, this was the other way around, because Tállai András is an influential politician in Mezőkövesden, and he can arrange everything, even the gas price increase or the reduction, sorry. So what I see is that you're doing business with all of this, because no one's telling me that from one year to another there's a 60 percent increase in this area, and it's a normal thing. As I mentioned, the standard text of the closing account, moving from equity benefits to equity benefits, it is known that there was an envelope of 200 million for pension determinations. I stress that this is not about the sum, not the absolute value, but the frame. This shows that the equity pension increase was paid in addition to HUF 785,7 million, it was also a framework of HUF 800 million; the 200 million was a set-up and 800 million was a one-off grant and some HUF 583,9 million was achieved. If we go through this nicely, we can see the following: In 2018, more than 60,000 applications were received for a pension increase, and 34 725 of them were received. Here there is a 58 percent compliance, and these people received a pension increase of some HUF 3500 on average. The other item is a statement of fairness. I would like to say to my fellow Members that a person who does not have 20 years of service can ask for a statement of fairness, but if he has more than 15 years, he may ask for a statement of fairness, because he may be better off receiving a pension of his own right, such as a retirement pension. But here only 40 percent of the claimants got it, and they almost got their apologies, and they got 60 percent there. In the case of one-off aid, it can also be seen that an awful lot of people have applied for one-off benefits, more than 54,000, but only 32 939 have received one. Here's a 60 percent performance. But what's the reason for all this? I see that the society of pensioners has been radically poorer since 2015, but it is also apparent that every year, when the Orbán government governed it in the previous nine years, the poverty rate of pensioners was higher every year here, by the way, we are talking about people exposed to income poverty than it was in 2010. In 2018 it was twice as high as in 2015. After 2015, however, growth is radical. There are two problems here, Mr. Secretary. One is that I see every single motion being swept off during the year, already in the committee stage, but there are two things that distort this whole structure. One in recent years is the gratitude of God, dynamic income growth, income growth, especially in terms of the real position of wages. Pensions are radically separated from wages. There are two problems. One, in addition to the fact that the incomes of the active employees are being reduced by pensions, and the other is that those who left the past two to three years ago, so when the net wage growth was a little more dynamic or the real position of wages was more effective, those who were able to enforce this net wage increase in their last years will retire in a much better position than those who left 2-3-4 years ago. So there will be a huge gap between pension and pension, simply because someone, say, retired three or four years ago. He had the same career, the same profession, maybe even working at the same job, the same amount of service, the same salary as the others, but only because someone retired three years ago and the other retires next year, there will be a 35-37 percent difference. When we look at it in detail, as I mentioned, that this radical detachment of pensions has been in place since 15 years ago, it seems that net average wage has increased by 4.3 percent in 15 and net real wages have increased by 4.4 percent, pensions have increased by 1.8 percent, and the real position of pensions has improved by 1.4 percent. I am not going through the same situation in 2016, where the real position of pensions has only improved by 1 percent, but real wages have improved by 7.3 percent. In 2017, the net real wage improved by 10.2, there was a 2.4 percent increase in pension, but there was only 0.1 improvement in the real pension position 0.1! , against 10.2 real wages. In 2018, what we are talking about was an 11 per cent net average wage increase, as I have seen, the net real wage increase was 8.2 per cent, they received a pension increase this year, as I said, 3 per cent, but the real position of pensions has only increased by 0.2 per cent. It is clear, therefore, that pensions are falling terribly short compared to wages, and this is the primary reason for this inflation-following pension raising technique. That's the primary reason. I know that pro-government representatives always argue that every year average pensions are growing dynamically. Yeah, now it's roughly 135,000 forints. But, dear fellow Members, with the practical abolition of the contribution ceiling, the rate of pensions of millions has also increased. From here on, it's pulling up the math center. So, of course, the average is rising dynamically, because the number of earners who are well above average has started to grow dynamically, and so has the mathematical middle. But if, for example, we look at, say, those with an old-age pension, we are talking about 2.6 million people when we talk about pension-like benefits, of which the number of people with an old-age pension is 1.7, and with an old-age pension, we are talking about 2 million 20 thousand, roughly 2 million. If you look at the median, it's only 105,000 forints. So there's a terrible difference. The median income means that we line up all the clients, and in the middle, where there are as many below as there are above them, so the one-millionth in the line doesn't get 135,000, but only 105 thousand, and that's a significant difference for a pension. Plus, pensioners need to hold on. 87 percent have a pension of between HUF 50,000 and HUF 200,000. 87 percent of them have that kind of pension! What I see is that for years there has been a ruse of under-planned inflation, and as a result, pensioners lend to the government throughout the year, and they are very graciously looking at the average of 1-8 months to see how much pension premium or supplemental needs to be given, and, in turn, they still thank God, this law is respected. I'm very proud of him, because I was a member of the institution of the pension premium here at the National Assembly during the Bajna government. But they forgot one thing. I know it's none of your business, because you're only responsible for the implementation and planning of public finances, Secretary of State, but at that time the average pension was 80,000 forints, the pension premium established according to economic growth was set at that amount, and it didn't rise by a crooked penny. In the last ten years, inflation has eaten a significant part of it. From now on, I think there are plenty of tasks that the government should resolve in the future. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[14.50]]
u2019-10-24-44	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocskasi in a two-minute time frame.
u2019-10-24-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, at the close of the 2018 budget, many areas have been affected by my fellow Members who have spoken. I would like to react to my fellow Member Csaba Nagy's reaction in a very short way. This is the fact that you mentioned to the municipalities how good it is to receive the amounts of the tender funds in advance. Let me give you a concrete example of this: in Siófok settlement, they won 200 million HUF out of the TOP tender, to build the precipitation water drain by taking an extra HUF 200 million as a self-force by the municipality. Now we are talking about the fact that this investment is about to scrape not only the 200 million self-force, but also the 500 million self-force. So, despite the 200 million forints that raise the budget, there is simply no contractor who can make a price calculated on technical content from 2016-17. And it's not just this municipality. There are many such municipalities in infrastructure investments throughout the country, and they face the same problem everywhere. Yes, you can tell how much money the municipalities have received, but they just can't spend it effectively. And I believe that it's very good that they can do it with pre-financing, but believe me, they can't do it, and not only in this investment, but also in the renovation of kindergartens or any other institution. So I think that this should be considered very much, because the fact that these investments can take place so late could also lead to the impossibility of local authorities. 'Cause what are you gonna say now? You're gonna put the 500 million there? From what? Going to the county? That'll spread your arms. So I think that there must be very serious consequences, because citizens who have actually received these TOP resources, because let's not forget, they have received these TOP funds and all other resources, they have the right to make these investments. But how? I'll be waiting for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-24-46	Thank you, Congresswoman. Congressman Csaba Nagy checked in for a two-minute comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-24-47	Thank you very much. It's just a response because as former county president, I know these issues exactly. So it is always an individual municipal responsibility to how and how investments have been prepared. The investment with twice the cost compared to the planned one was certainly poorly prepared professionally. That's what I'm saying as an engineer. My second point is that the situation is fundamentally different, after signing the contract, the municipalities will receive the money in advance compared to what was before. That's my first comment. Second, obviously, the system itself contains room for manoeuvre in these cases. I'm guessing the municipality of Siófok, after preparing this investment, announced it in public procurement. Now you know how much this investment costs. They won 200 million forints, if I understand correctly. 200 million shares were planned and the total investment would cost HUF 500 million. They have the opportunity, through the county municipality, to turn to the managing authority to raise this amount. By the way, county authorities support these applications wherever they are free of party politics, and on the basis of an individual assessment, these applications are awarded or brought to another professional forum, to the experts, or to the request that they can be met, realistic or not. So I think there's a perfectly normal way to do this. Every local government in Hungary has been able to do this, for its part. Obviously, there are investments where something has been accounted for in the preparation and the situation must be dealt with with with a change in technical content. That's my advice to everyone. That's what I can say in Baranya. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-24-48	Thank you, Congressman. Now we're going back to normal comments. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2019-10-24-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate seems to be a bit of a pea on the wall, as, apart from the secretary of state and the secretary of state, the ministries that my fellow Members are constantly addressing, whether it be education, health or social issues, or even the defence-police issues, they do not pay their respects here in the debate, so there is no real debate. To that end, I would like to express my thanks to the Secretary of State, who, as usual and now, as I have followed his comments on the Internet, took part in the debate. And today, this House's IT opportunity is one of those, and I commend it to my fellow Members only, that it is possible to look at the Members' debate, but when they press a button, the very happy Member will be able to speak to it. [[Interjections and information in the benches of Fidesz.]] So let me draw attention to one or two things during the debate, after you click with your whip, Mr Happy Member, I think it would be much better for you than to sit in this House as a Member. But, of course, this depends on the decision of the Fidesz faction and the voters, so we are very happy to have your comment, which is always very valuable in this House, and will also receive a serious media publicity. But back to the subject: I think that many speakers here have heard that the Hungarian economy is in a fantastic good position, the macro indicators are very good. The Secretary of State has also made many additions to opposition speakers about how they see things wrong, why they say the numbers wrong. I would not be involved in this debate, but I would ask the government actors who are not here, but I am sure that the Fidesz Members will provide this work instead of them, why they will not spend more on health, why they will not spend more on the social sphere, why they will not spend more on education, why they will not spend more on health care. And in this, please do not include developments from European Union sources, as the system must also be operated in some form. I see that your social policy is nothing more than to help the privileged few beyond force. They will help them to get richer and then expect that this prosperity from the upper tenteens will come down to the lower tens of thousands, if I may. There is no such social policy anywhere in the world. This kind of social policy doesn't work anywhere. Today, many people, many families live in very difficult conditions in Hungary, and many people are not given health care, for example, to choose private health instead of community health care. What I don't understand is that if the numbers are so good, we can build so fantastically many stadiums for such a lot of money, then why can't we do it to spend these resources on stadiums after we have fixed, where appropriate, the quality of community services in the sectors mentioned above. So there are absolutely amazing conditions in education, absolutely amazing conditions in health care, and in the meantime, you are constantly running a success campaign in these areas, which is a lie. Therefore, I ask with due respect that, if we are going so well for the country, if we are so fantastically competitive, as you have said here or in the comments of the President of the State Audit Office at the beginning of the day, then my question is why these areas are not being fixed, why are they not spending more. After all, most Hungarians are in need of these public services. Therefore, it doesn't matter what quality they have for them. On the other hand, this is specifically a question relating to the economy and my concern about economic operators: Mr Secretary, what are you doing to improve competitiveness? After all, today we have talked a lot about how much EU funds are coming to Hungary and how they have a positive impact on the Hungarian economy and Hungarian companies. But more and more people are writing and complaining about the fact that this has a kind of restrictive effect, as companies may get used to the fact that it is easier to obtain EU funds and thus to survive with even less competitive services or productivity data. This, of course, has a positive effect that companies don't go down, so people have jobs, too. But if these resources do not develop this way in the next period, then this could be a serious problem for Hungarian businesses. So much has been said in Hungarian, in words. Here was the issue of the Hungarian National Bank, I do not know how many hundred points since its proposal. It is also apparent that there is a debate between your boss, Minister Varga, and the magician Matolcsy, the President of the National Bank, which has now been sent to the media to tell each other which one is the bigger charlatan. [[15.00]] But basically, this is not likely to help Hungarian economic policy and Hungarian monetary policy, but it seems that there is no consensus within the government or agreement between government actors and their leaders. So in Hungarian, what the government intends to do in order to ensure that, in addition to the positive impact of European Union funds, such a negative side effect will have less impact on Hungarian economic operators, so how we can improve, help and support their competitiveness, productivity indicators, and how we can prepare them, so that when there may be no such amount of EU funds available to finance that sector, these companies will be able to carry out competitive work and tasks on the international market. Another commentary would also be attached to the earlier opinion. With regard to unemployment and employment figures, we are always obliged to say from the opposition that, yes, there are very serious investments in job creation, but there are many of them, for example, in London and abroad, in Vienna, Germany or France. So you always forget that in Hungary there is no labour force in many respects, or that there is a shortage of labour or even structural unemployment, because many have left the country and found their calculation elsewhere. What is most tragic about this is that if we ask these people who have left Hungary, when they intend to come back or how they plan to plan their future for their return home, we are unfortunately most of the time told that they do not plan to come home, which is harmful in all respects, and is certainly a detrimental process for the Hungarian nation. So, in Hungarian, behind the good economic indicators, there is a different reality than what you have been talking about, but in summary, what I wanted to suggest to you is that your social policy is a perverted social policy, because it helps the rich to get rich, leaving the smaller earners and the poor to their fate. This certainly will not help Hungary's rise, especially if more and more Nobel Prize winner economists report that social inequalities also have an impact on economic performance, as well as I do. So, not only from a social policy point of view, but also from an economic policy point of view, a strong reduction of inequalities should be a very high priority of government. The other important issue, which I also wanted to draw attention to, is the competitiveness of Hungarian companies, which is very much mentioned, but these indicators do not improve much for Hungary, even if European Union funds still provide room for manoeuvre for heating up the Hungarian economy. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2019-10-24-50	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2019-10-24-51	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Joining Attila Mesterházy's speech, I became a Member of Parliament for the first time in 2014, and at that time in the first budget debate and the first closing debate, I thought it was possible to hold a professional debate. There were a few more of us sitting in Parliament, both on the opposition side and on the part of the ruling party. Now, in 2019, we can say that three hours have passed by a few minutes, and this debate will soon be over. It is clear that over the years we have come to the point that there is almost no need to argue about this. You too feel as a Member of Parliament that it is a pity to come into Parliament and give our opinion. Maybe it's because the government doesn't take this job seriously. I also commend Mr Secretary of State because he sits through every budget debate, he sits through the discharge debate, but it is almost possible to say that the positives of the pro-government representatives and representatives of the Ministry have been exhausted. I am sorry for this, because we should be debating a very important matter, that the numbers that have been planned have been fulfilled, whether those indicators have been fulfilled or not. We give criticism, and on the part of the ruling party and the pro-government politicians, we should have an answer. Unfortunately, we've been talking about a worse situation for years. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Now, I want you to allow me to say a few things in front of me before I go to health care. My colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs, mentioned that social catering is about 50 percent above the planned resources. I've been writing to the Ministry for years about why they don't get social food support and why they can't, let's say, draw more than 6 billion forints to the municipalities during spring, autumn, summer and winter holidays. That's because you put a half sentence in the law, which sounds like the parent has to ask for it himself. The Ministry acknowledged that around 240 thousand children should receive this support each year. The correspondence shows that about 100,000 children fall from this form of support at each break because they do not get it, because they either do not know or do not receive the appropriate information, or perhaps they are ashamed that they belong to this group that the child should ask for this form of support on a needy basis. We have said this every year in every debate, then the SAO has launched an investigation, and I recommend it to the pro-government politicians, because this investigation came out in the summer, that a very large percentage of the municipalities under investigation do not fulfil those tasks; the notary does not give the parents adequate information on how to apply for it, the educational institutions do not receive adequate information, and in many cases the SAO has had the experience of even hiding how the form of support should be used by the parents. It is disappointing, Mr Secretary of State, when Viktor Orbán said in his speech a few months ago that the next task in Hungary is to eradicate child poverty. Then am I arguing with my pro-government fellow politician that they have now eliminated child poverty or have they not eliminated it? Do we have child poverty in Hungary or do we not have one every year? If you have to spend tens of billions more forints each year on this group, then, Mr. Secretary, something is wrong. If we spend more every year on social meals and children's meals, then there's something wrong with your communication and the planned amount. And the other is to allow one more review. You know, the transformation of a child's meal, Mr. Secretary, the little devil is always hiding in me. Why do we give more to this segment year after year? Because there was a change of profile here too, with, say, a mass of companies linked to pro-government politicians in the food market. The country's been wiped out. He's been wiped out. We know I don't want names right now, and I could mention names of whose companies have flooded local governments and educational institutions. And then I ask you, that's not why we spend more, not to give the children good food to feed properly, but to fill the pockets of the oligarch companies linked to Fidesz. Joining my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, there is only one sentence: poverty has dramatically increased in two segments in Hungary today, this is workers' poverty and pension poverty. You can hear it well, poverty among working people and families and poverty among pensioners. A little more about education, a few more sentences. You know, today in Hungary, the majority of parents rescue their children from state institutions, from public education, if they can. [[15.10]] Well, if there's nothing else, he's taking her to church institutions. If there is one. You may refer to the free textbook. As a practicing parent, let me tell you that the free textbook is up to 12,000 forints. The package above HUF 12,000 has to be paid for by the parents. Today we are talking about a grammar book, a high quality grammar book, reaching 5-6-7, even 10 thousand forints. In order for a child to have a degree, we know very well that from 2020 he must have a language exam and a higher level of graduation, so they will stand at the door to take language education seriously. Mr. Secretary, don't give me a free textbook. They should teach children from a good quality textbook. Why is there a difference between children in the state institution and the church institution? Why do children in church institutions receive more norm, and why do they get less in public institutions? Why do they dictate in the state institution what books they can learn from until they are prescribed in church institutions? Why are they telling us what kind of educator can teach in the state institution, not in the church institution, Mr. Secretary of State? Unfortunately, we got to the point where I started to get the kids out of the state education system. Someone who can. The other thing is that I wanted to start by saying that I know that Mr Secretary of State always says that there is a set of budget figures, and the figures show that we are going the right way or not. But behind the numbers, I tell you this every single time there are people, families and fates. Today, if we look at it, Hungary is one of the most unhappy countries. Today Hungary is one of the poorest countries in the European Union. Romania has already preceded us in many indicators. The number of suicides is high in Hungary. Such indicators should also be examined, Mr Secretary of State, when we talk about a good budget closure, this is part of the accounts. [[Turning to the intervention of Sándor Hadházy:]] The closing account is not just a set of numbers, Congressman, politics is not just a set of numbers, but people are behind it. If people feel bad, then something's not working in this country. We are talking about what is Hungary's biggest problem, what crises we are talking about, Mr Secretary of State. Health care is in ruins, living the worst crisis. I am glad that Madam Secretary has come to the debate, and I think I will give you another 15 minutes, and then we will be talking specifically about health care. Today, in Hungary, we have reached the point of spending more on private care than the state should. I'll ask Mrs. Secretary of State some questions. How come after a life of work, you're already scared to go to the hospital because you're afraid you won't come out of there alive? And the other is why if I've always worked for a lifetime to assume this, I've paid a contribution, I've been a regular taxpayer to the state, that I can't get the health care I'm supposed to have for my paid contributions. 2018 was the year when we spent more than HUF 1000 billion on private care than the state could provide us. Maybe that's not a coincidence, too. And then we didn't agree to the problems of how many GP districts are empty, how we stand with the pharmacists, how much we spend on drugs, how much the budget has gone out of the care of citizens. But let's not get ahead of ourselves, 'cause I'm just trying to get a little more fun. The other crisis we are facing is the housing crisis in Hungary. Even though we talk about increased support schemes, CSOK, preferential loans, Mr. Secretary of State knows very well that as much as they give extra support to families, the price of real estate in Hungary has dramatically increased. In addition, the government has refused to talk about what is happening in Hungary, in Budapest, in large cities or in rural settlements for years. That it's almost impossible, that what we see is terrible, that they're giving us support, and they're not willing to deal with this rent support system. You should also consider, Mr Secretary, why it is that when a young couple get married and perhaps think they should get an apartment, how many years they have to save to buy a 40-50 sq m apartment. In many cases, if you put your entire salary aside, you would still have to save 10-20-30 years to get an independent apartment. It's not okay, Mr. Secretary. Secondly, we are constantly hearing that family-friendly governance has made its success in quotes, because more children are born today, the fertility rate has increased in Hungary, and we now have good reason to be positive about the fact that more and more children will be born. That's what we're arguing about, Mr. Secretary, because fewer and fewer children are being born. In fact, 2019 will be the year I think, now seeing the data, when we can say in particular that we will end a worse year than in 2011, when only 88,000 children were born, this was slightly higher than the number of live births in Hungary. Secretary of State, we can argue, we start arguing about this every year, and we know very well why. The number of women of childbearing age is falling dramatically, and a very large proportion of women of childbearing age are in this debate, more than 10 percent are now not in Hungary, and about six percent of Hungarian children, perhaps more than six percent, and one sixth children are born abroad. You're not willing to deal with that. They simply say that the fertility rate has improved, that in a certain age group there has been a slight increase in childishness, but in essence you refuse to talk about the weight of the problem. What I would like to say in these few minutes is the economy and how you consciously hold wages low in Hungary today. It is true that every year they say how much the minimum wage has been raised, but with this we know very well that the state is entitled to the best, because the part of the tax that flows into the state results every year in revenue to the government that it didn't have before. But the net cost to the employees, we know very well, hasn't increased by that much. This includes keeping quiet about, let's say, the drastic increase in food prices in Hungary over the past few years, and when you go into the store, you spend most of it there because energy prices and food prices are part of the overhead. Even though VAT reductions have been made in poultry products, poultry meat, pigmeat, we can very well see the brutal way food prices have increased, and this is not in proportion to the increase in earnings. One more sentence for employment. Secretary of State, perhaps we should work to replace the missing labour force in Hungary with non-Ukrainian, Turkish or even Filipino migrant workers, which Hungary is facing, but to work on what Attila Mesterházy said about how to lure young Hungarian workers who left Hungary because of your policy. By the way, your biggest responsibility will be in this. But we know very well that you are doing this consciously, only to keep people as miserable as they are today in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-10-24-52	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Before the two-minute speeches take place, I will give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-24-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Member before me said that she started the budgetary closure debates with the belief that a professional debate could be held. I'll tell you the truth, I come here with that intention year after year, and I always have to be disappointed. Madam Congresswoman, allow me: I think that a professional debate can be held if the claims are true and the claims can be supported. The Congresswoman has said things that I believe are unfounded, untrue and cannot be supported by data. He said that poverty, workers' poverty, pensioners' poverty increased. Madam President, if you participated in the debate, if you followed the debate, you would know precisely that, for example, the real income of the lowest level of workers who bring home the lowest action, minimum wage earners and guaranteed minimum wage earners, for example, has increased. [[15.20]] Not only because of the increase in gross wages, but because they could only be affected by a positive change in the tax system, namely the increase in the benefits of families with two children. But by the way, there was no tax change in sja. Congresswoman, if you look at the inflation rate, you know exactly how much the real income of these workers has increased. I'm turning to the poverty of pensioners. Congresswoman, if you followed the debate, you know exactly that pensions have increased by 3 percent since 1 January 2018 and you have also heard that pension inflation was 2.7 percent. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We don't believe it!]] Small real income growth has been achieved. I hear what Congressman says. Then find the KSH, find Eurostat. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Since 2010, the real value of pensions has increased by around 10%. That's what the government agreed to, it was a serious commitment. You know exactly how the income of pensioners evolved before 2010. In the midst of an economic crisis in 2010, the government undertook to preserve the real value of pensions when many countries could not do so. The 2018 closure report not only talks about the fact that all pensions have preserved their real value, but also about the fact that, thanks to economic growth, they have received a pension premium and they have received a voucher from Erzsébet. This is above the increase and above the 10-percent real value increase I have mentioned. As far as health is concerned, Madam Congresswoman has said that we spend more private spending on private care than the state puts in health care. That's not factually true. Congresswoman, show me the data that supports this. Domestic and international data deny that. We have talked a lot about the fact that, of course, in the field of health, as in many areas, we have a lot to do, but in the context of the 2018 accounts, we have to say that health is viewed negatively by the government, when healthcare expenditures have increased nominally and in real terms, when the wages of health professionals have increased, this is not factually true. With all due respect, I would just like to ask all the speakers that I think it is worth pointing out the problems in order to move forward, but let us do this by saying that our statement is true and that our claim can be supported by facts. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-24-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2019-10-24-55	Mr President, Dear House, One of my fellow MPs mentioned that he thought things were going very well in Hungary, also during the budget period under discussion, which is the subject of this closing debate. If you're doing so well and you have such an expansion, then I have a proposal that I'll share with you, by the way, because I'm submitting it to Parliament's information system. This proposal is about the eviction of more than a thousand families during the year of families, typically due to dubious debts from their homes, and we see that the amazing systemic excesses of executives also undermine families whose capacity to produce these abuses cannot afford them, they cannot finance these burdens. However, we also see that the problem could be dealt with, as I propose: the various 33 percent and 50 percent series of bans of executives, thus stacking on each other, should not affect the income required for basic maintenance, whether it be pensions, small pensions or minimum earnings. Not only do I expect you to support this proposal, but I also expect you to make an opinion on the fact that at a time when things are not going very, very well in Hungary, according to one of my fellow Members, it is in your mind that we should help the most difficult ones in this way. Of course, then we need to reshape the rules on executives in such a way that these amazing overruns cannot appear in the system. Of course, then let's have all the other debates from health care to education, these are legitimate and legitimate debates. But I claim that these people, who appear behind the budget lines, are not barcodes, but are living-emotional, and that for those on the most difficult line, it could be a significant help if the overruns of the implementation system were not carried out on them, and they were not supposed to finance the billionaire profits of this executive branch, in many cases, unjustified in my opinion. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-24-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group.
u2019-10-24-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, There is a difficult situation, Mr Secretary of State and we, pro-government representatives, when we are listening to Congresswoman Bangóné. One of the key criteria of politics is to be credible, able to speak truthfully about what you're talking about. I would just like to point out that credibility may be questionable in the event that in Csepel, which is actually a left-wing area, you fail to win. Believe me, we individual Members know exactly what we are talking about. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Szabolcs Szabó won in Csepel! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I didn't even go to Csepel!]] I was talking about the mayor's election, the municipal election. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I did not participate in that.]] Okay, fine, I'll admit I said the wrong thing. At least I can admit it, Congresswoman. But you've said so much stupidity here that oligarchs control children's meals. There are at least 350 settlements in our settlements, there are no oligarchs in the children's meals. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I'm happy for you. I'm calm!]] When he talked about free textbooks, he said he was over 12 thousand forints. 12 thousand forints isn't good for helping a family? So you've been talking about so much, honourable Member. Obviously, this is the way to scare people politically, but believe me, the election results show that people in rural areas and small towns give us confidence, and you have already been preceded by DK in a number of villages, because credibility is authentic. You're misinformed. Sometimes you should ask Mr Mesterházy for advice on how to argue at some level in the debate. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2019-10-24-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group. Here you go.
u2019-10-24-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If my colleague Dániel Z. Kárpát immediately made a suggestion that everything here is fantastic and shiny, there is plenty of money for everything, and indeed now the Hungarian budgetary conditions and the Hungarian standard of living are such a supernova on the European Union's skies, then I would also like to make a suggestion on what to spend all this money on. There was a suggestion here for the treatment of children with muscular dystrophy. We're talking expensive drugs here. My fellow Member, Dr. Imre László, also submitted a proposal on this matter. Imre also congratulated him on becoming mayor of Újbuda, and the opposition won 16 out of 17 districts. But Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, took this proposal with a smile. Then this story reappeared when the story of this little boy Zente came to light, and in two days people combined the money needed to buy the medicine they needed to cure it. With all due respect, I would also like to suggest that we review this story after all. It's a few billion forints. If we're gonna get rich in money and have a lot of money, then at least we're gonna solve the case of children with muscular dystrophy. I would add that this will be solved in Romania, it will also be solved in Slovakia, it will also be solved in Poland with budget money. Don't make a donation to the Hungarian people on this matter! So I would like to make this concrete proposal right away on behalf of the Democratic Coalition: help or force people to give, because if there is money in the budget, then there must be money for this. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-24-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-24-61	Thank you very much. One thought came to me about my fellow Member Tilki's comment, which might be worth correcting, so I would not be arguing with him now: these textbooks. That's really helpful, but these aren't really free textbooks, they're loan books, because they have to be returned. On the example of my own children, I know how hard it is to learn from a textbook that you can never write anything in it, if you write in it, then you have to pay for it, starting with what's free. [[15.30]] So it would be worth changing somehow, especially if we called it a free textbook; it would certainly help the children prepare if they really had it, not to mention that there is a graduation at the end when they have to pick up the old books. I'm old enough to do this, but I remember it was a lot easier to prepare from the textbooks that I once underlined and learned, than to start all over again. In English, the help is good, the direction is good in this way, I would just say that we should call it exactly in his name, that this is not a free textbook, because it will not be the child's property, unfortunately, but it should be returned, so it is more likely to be a loan book, and that is the problem for children. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-24-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, there will now be speeches from its representatives in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr János Volner, an independent Member. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-24-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget was Hungary's economic plan for a given year, and the accounts are a report on the implementation of our economic plan. I would like to appreciate this, and I would like to do so on the basis of the political and professional aspects which I see fit. From year to year, I have drawn the attention of the government page to the need for countercyclical economic policy in Hungary several times since 2010. For fellow Members and viewers who are not so keen on economic policy, this is virtually the same as when the housewife, when she is doing just fine, both of them have jobs, the economy is going well, she is putting aside a little bit for difficult times, so that if something unexpected happens, a crisis will occur, then there will be something to sustain the family. The way this works in the economy is to have something to boost the economy, have something to invest in in the difficult years of the crisis. A natural feature of the capital economy is that crises arise from time to time, and they operate in a corrective manner. There is an economic downturn, and then the economic activity starts again, and a booming phase follows. I think it is very important to say that, although I have drawn the government's attention every year from 2010 to the need to prepare for the crisis and to reserve it, this year the first substantial attempt to build up a small reserve for Hungary in terms of next year's budget, and then to boost the economy from this reserve when the crisis hits. But I would add that this was quite late, because we can see that China has now produced the weakest economic result of long and long decades, going back 30 years. The German economy is once again showing signs of recession, so it would have been better, and I think that Hungary would have built up reserves in this area, and in this way there would have been a way to boost the Hungarian economy if the crisis had hit. I think it is important to say that one of the options for this would have been that state-owned enterprises and local government-owned entities would accumulate similar savings, since these accumulations, unlike many other spending within the public system, would not have increased public debt, which would have been possible in such a way that money could have been invested in substantial productive investments. I myself, when I was president of the Enterprise Development Committee, did quite a lot of work on the practice of the public works system in Hungary, because the country has spent 200-300 billion forints annually in recent years, so quite a lot of money. One shocking experience was that the state did not, in practice, attempt to quantify the profits generated by hundreds of billions spent in the public works system, not to show at all the forintable results of the public work system, which I consider to be very important, because if we wanted to create the public works system not only to provide social care, in Hungarian: to put money into people's pockets, but to make a real transition from the public work system to the primary labour market, to the competition sector, then we should have done so so that the state would start to organise the public work system a little more practical or more practically, and to put this into the practice of the municipalities with all its power. There are very few, quantified, very few municipal public workers who carry out meaningful activities, the result of which I think should be changed. What I think is positive is that, as a whole, the external exposure of the Hungarian economy has changed positively over the past year. Here, fellow Members, consider that, on the basis of a previously adopted convergence package, the Széll Kálmán plan, the public debt has to decrease year after year, as a whole, budget management has been disciplined in this respect, and our external exposure has been reduced in no small part because we have increasingly started to refinance public debt from internal sources. In the past, it was external foreign investors who provided money for the sale or purchase of Hungarian government bonds, and at present the focus is shifting towards the Hungarian population in the first place, more and more forinted sovereign debt and an increasing proportion of domestic government debt within the Hungarian government debt, which is a joyful development, as this means that the Hungarian national economy as a whole is able to finance itself in an increasing proportion. I have always considered this a positive development, and I still believe that I regard the introduction of superstate paper as a positive development for my part as a whole. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention, and in this respect we are fortunate to have a secretary of state sitting here, not just anyone, that there have often been problems with the competition between retail sovereign debt and bank deposits in the retail savings market. This would be worth considering together with financial supervision, because, where appropriate, the commercial banking sector is hunting the same thing as the state itself, which can produce certain anomalies on the market. My fellow Members here have mentioned the issue of pension systems several times. Here, let me make some changes to the usual approach. I am convinced that care for older people is not the same as the sustainability of the pension system. I am thinking in particular, fellow Members, that the pension system will be sustainable if it is constantly raised, on the basis of current demographic trends, the current government will raise the retirement age to ensure that the pension system is at all sustainable, and the replacement rate in Hungarian: the amount that the pensioner is receiving as a pension compared to his previous active years is worsening. I would like to draw the attention of the fellow Members and, in particular, the Secretary of State, to the fact that a number of men are not even worth the retirement age, that one in five men dies before they can retire. We dealt with this issue a great deal when we fought for men's retirement after 40 years of service and started a political campaign in the colours of Jobbik. I think it is important to address this issue more carefully. Let me also make a proposal to the Secretary of State immediately: there is always a narrow debate on the issue of pensions whether pensioners' pensions have increased or not. I think it's a quantifiable thing: pensioners' pensions have increased. So this is where the political debate can be held, but the figures undoubtedly show one thing: that there really was a real pension increase, which I think is stupid to deny, my fellow left-wing Members can obviously do, but it was detectable. I draw attention to the fact that the proportion of expenditure on private health is increasing in Hungary. It would therefore be worthwhile for opposition representatives to draw up an indicator showing the size of the other expenditure by means of a joint professional piecework. I also see, in my own parents' example, that I will bring my father to the Honvéd Hospital at one o'clock in the afternoon with a stroke, and he will be placed in the ward at 2:30 in the morning, until practically nothing happened to him, and he has hardly been subjected to a substantive examination. So the situation in health is much more critical, and people themselves are practically forced to turn to private health in their old age if they want substantial care, and it does not cost a small amount of money, where appropriate, to take a significant part or all of the real pension rise. We cannot appreciate this now, which is why we should do this particular professional work, so that we can see this correction, how much more we have spent on private health in recent years than before, just because of the weak and poor state of public health. [[15.40]] Let me turn to another question, the issue of import and export. I understand that politicians, as I myself am, love to communicate the results of exports, and consider export growth primarily to be useful in political communication, but it would be very important for the decision-makers of the Hungarian economy to change their perspective in this area, as we can do a lot more for the Hungarian economy with products suitable to trigger imports than to try to compete in foreign markets. Believe me, it's a very tough thing to do. As an entrepreneur, I was a supplier of multi-company companies, and I had to compete with large German, English and American multinationals in various niche markets, and it's dog-hard, and it's got to be very professional for the company that succeeds. I think it would be much easier to move forward with the professional development and policy envisaged in our own market, and in this way to achieve a greater share of our own economy, possibly from our public procurement system through the products produced here, than to try outside markets. Let me support my argument with the example of Hungarian trading houses. The Hungarian National Trading House was set up as a state company, and made profits once during its six-year operation. Let's not go into that now, because it seems more like an accounting operation in retrospect, but one fact: if there is no Hungarian commodity base to sell abroad, which we could sell to the Russians, the Turks or anyone with whom the government is trying to balance unilateral western dependence, then Hungarian exports cannot be made. For the time being, we create Hungarian state trading houses in vain to try to sell the products of the Hungarian economy abroad if there is no Hungarian commodity fund. It is therefore necessary to move forward, and in some respects not only to make the Hungarian economy knowledge-based, but also to make it production-based, but not as we have done so far, to join as employees or, where appropriate, as a small supplier in the production of its multi-value chains in Hungary, but also to show our own Hungarian products on the external markets, and there is a lot to be subject to. It is important for me to say something about the development of certain taxes. In 2010, when this government was formed, to be more precise, its predecessor, it was an important objective to involve multinationals and banks in a higher proportion of public burdens. In fact, I myself have called for the lack of this idea on the government several times in recent years, because I am convinced that this has not happened properly. For example, it is worth looking at the issue of a credit institution's allowance, of which roughly HUF 20 billion was added annually to the Hungarian budget. It's not a very significant tax rate, but it wasn't so low as 20 billion forints. The government shut this down practically one step at a time, this kind of contribution to the budget of the banking sector has ceased, which I simply can't figure out, because if you look at the profit of 700 billion forints in a given year, exactly 694 billion forints in the banking sector in a year, then I see this as completely unjustified why we are releasing 20 billion forints of this gigantic, historical record profit by abolishing a tax on banks. The other is the special tax on financial institutions, as the public knows, the question of the banker. Here, too, it is worth looking at the changes in the rates, and I deliberately looked at them: between 2010 and 2015, 0.53 percent of the adjusted balance sheet total was the bank tax of the major banks; this decreased to 0.21 percent from 2017 onwards, i.e. less than half. Again, this is a question that I think is worth addressing. If I look at the data from three years ago, so this already applies to the reduced bank tax, the budget is still HUF 79 billion of this tax, so there is not little even after the reduction. I think it would be worth considering that if this objective is real and I hope that it is real and that we involve the multinationals, the banks, in a higher proportion, in public burden-sharing, they do not need to give such tax incentives, especially at a time of gigantic, record-level profitability in the banking sector. It would be more important for the government to continue its work to provide significant tax incentives to working Hungarians, not to grant such benefits to foreign banks that are not in need of tax incentives, which are established here. So, with all due respect, Mr State Secretary, I have now run out of time to consider these proposals and to include them in the thinking of next year's budget, even when the budget will come up in the form of amendments, in additions, let us revisit and renegotiate this issue. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-10-24-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-10-24-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, When the budget is being debated, we are discussing with Minister of State Banai whether the plans are good, building on good foundations the Ministry's thoughts, intentions, but there is a slightly different situation now, because we need to talk about facts, reality, and the reality that the government has put before Parliament. Now it's much harder to argue, because as long as there's only presumptions hanging over us, it's true whether we're all right or neither of us are right. Today, in the plenary session of the Parliament, the criticisms and rarely praises of the representatives of the opposition parties were also heard from many aspects. I have tried to press my speech on issues which either did not really speak or have tried to address this from a completely different approach. Plan numbers of the budget for 2018: the revenue was HUF 19 580 billion, and the total expenditure was HUF 20 578 billion, and the deficit was planned by the government in HUF 998 billion. Although I myself did not participate in the 2018 budget debate, reading the minutes, at the time the opposition representatives tried to call the financial portfolio to some restraint, given that it was already noticeable that this deficit would be difficult to keep. This law on the implementation of the budget also confirmed these concerns, because the total revenue amounted to 19,922 billion. It is true that it is nearly 400 billion more, but thus the expenditure has increased to 21 374 billion, which means that 1451 between the two The difference is HUF billion. Which means what? It means that the financial government has accounted for nearly 500 billion, and I have to say that, in 2018, apart from the amazing amount of money spent on the election campaign's madness, the government was not burdened with any unexpected expenditure that would have made this big difference. Right, 453 (sic!) There were billions more planned deficits. I think, by the way, since it can be seen that all this deficit growth is being corrected by the government with the increase in government debt, even if the debt ratio is falling at measurable value, because it has dropped from 71.8 per cent last year to 69 per cent now, yet it is very important to note every time that the future generation will not repay this debt relatively, but actually. So today, in any way, on the basis of international standards and EU requirements, the government is trying to reduce the government debt ratio according to the required rules, but those who do not take into account and warn of caution and do not call attention to the increase in nominal government debt rates are not responsible politicians in Hungary. [[15.50]] And while there are no fellow Members here from the government side who criticized our criticism, I would like to send a message to them that one day they will either hear it or read that it is an opposition's duty and duty to make criticisms and draw the attention of the government and the governing parties to circumstances which are either not included in the proposal or not adapted to the real conditions. A very important factor or item in this bill for budget implementation is the level of the stockpiling budget. It was planned that the revenue would be HUF 1642 billion and that the expenditure would be HUF 2044 billion, so it counted a deficit of EUR 402 billion, and the fact that the revenue would be HUF 1893 billion and the expenditure would be $2592 billion, which means that the word "" has been delivered in quotes, compared to the deficit of EUR 402 billion. I expected, when I read this proposal for the implementation of the budget law, that for these uniquely different figures, different from the original budget plan, there would be a truly clear, clear, professionally sound explanation in this law, or a reassuring explanation for opposition representatives, but usually with one sentence it was arranged that unexpected expenditures were shaped this way, or, for example, if there are changes between different ministries in a positive or negative sense, then there is also a sentence saying that we have transferred a task from here to there and there, and that is why these changes are made. The only problem is that when I look at the sum, so I look at the total public finances, then we have put these tasks to someone else, or unexpected expenditures or restructuring, and in the sum, this cannot appear to be 500 billion more than planned, which unfortunately creates an increase in public debt. I thought, when I read this proposal, that Mr Banai, Secretary of State, whom I think I am going to praise again from the opposition side, because he is indeed the only competent secretary of state, at least to the extent that he does so, but that is why I thought that when he made the oral presentation, he would explain the extremely different fact and plan numbers of the European Union development budget a little richer and more tailor-made. It is because we always hear from the government that we enjoy enough of the EU funds, so in fact I do not say that the Union is gallant with us, but we are certainly the beneficiaries of this system, and it is not clear from the proposal or the oral presentation that, if I have already planned a revenue of HUF 1359 billion and a expenditure of EUR 1995 billion, which includes a deficit of EUR 596 billion, which may otherwise come back next year, so we do not have to go through this endlessly, then it is possible that the fact is a revenue of HUF 1139 billion and an expenditure of HUF 1892 billion, which means a deficit of EUR 753 billion instead of 596 billion. I think there are legitimate reasons for this, so I can imagine that this can be explained professionally well. If the Secretary of State could give us a brief account of this in some of his speeches, I would be delighted. The next issue I would like to raise is the question of the general government deficit, which is from the point of view of the fact that we are always hearing before this House that this constantly increasing public debt is not a problem at all, since we comply with European Union standards in the debt service and are constantly trying to reduce public debt-to-GDP ratio, and our perception of both the markets and the Union and our economy depends on this number, and we should not worry about the fact that public debt is constantly rising, and the reason for that lies in the economic policy of the Hungarian government. I came up with a few facts from 2004 until today, and let me say that in January 2004 the government debt was HUF 11 015 billion, and now in this proposal there is 29 970 billion, which, in any case, is nearly three times more than 14 years. I'm sorry, it's a problem because inflation under the age of 14 wasn't this big, so it wasn't a fraction of it. And the other problem is that it is possible that, as a result of an increase in the performance of the economy, the government is in an extremely fortunate position, because the economic environment is good, the multi-enterprises have honoured us with their activities here, they produce revenues, taxes, the economy is growing, this is a lucky situation for us, but we do not know how long Hungary will be such a beneficiary in this lucky situation. I would like to say a few more words about the fact that while in 2014-15 the price index increase was 0.4 per cent by 2016, by 2017, it is 2.4 per cent by 2018, 2.8 per cent by 2018, and we cannot predict this year, because there have been terrible price increases, in this context I would just like to say that the government might be able to say its hurraoptimism in this budget implementation law, but I am sure that this year's data could only be based on strong cosmetics. The next question I would like to talk about was that between 2004 and 2006, the increase in the price index was 7.5 per cent, the government debt increased by 26.4 per cent during this period, so this increase was not justified at the time, but if I look at the period 2006-2010 and 2010-2018, I have to say that while between 2006 and 2010, the increase in the price index was 30.7 per cent, the increase in the government debt was 38.7 per cent, which, if I look at the relationship between these two, was not so unduly high in the increase in public debt at all, but if I look at it between 2010 and 2018, the government debt increased by 55 per cent, but the increase in the price index was only 16.7 per cent. Thus, one third of the increase in the price index was less than one third of the increase in the government debt, so it cannot be justified by the fact that the increase in public expenditure alone generated a sovereign debt increase, because prices and purchasing prices did not increase so. Of course, it can be blamed on the rise in public sector wages, but I think we could discuss this issue separately. I would like to explore one more area, because there is little time: the Prime Minister's Office and its associated relations call these three organizations, which are called the Prime Minister's Government Office and the Cabinet Office, this money-gathering machine, which never releases any value. We're talking about terrible numbers in these organizations. I would like to say this moment, I have aggregated this organizational system that spends a lot of money, but I have drawn up comparisons that while the entire municipal system spends HUF 808 billion, the entire municipal system, only these three gitmen spent HUF 1237 billion in 2018. Think about it. It costs nearly twice as much money for these three organisations and the organisations it operates, as for all the support of the entire municipality on all grounds, which I think is a disaster, so it would be nice to start moving into the field of saving somewhere. But I'll give you some comparative data on this. Ministry of Human Resources: This includes everything the state spends most on outside the pension, health care, education, culture and so forth. The Ministry of Human Resources had a design number of 337 billion, which is only 2.7 times the Prime Minister's and associated troops. So we spend only 2.7 times more on all education, all health care, all social services, all cultures in the whole country than these three organisations are consumed. [[16.00]] So I would very much like for you to begin to exercise some restraint in the coming period. And then I would have brought the Health Insurance Fund out here, but I would like to say that in our country, there will be no good numbers for hurrahoptimism until we actually take advantage of our own resources. As long as the monopoly situation created by huge agricultural holdings, which generates a rise in healthy food prices, will not be kept in check, and while we only base our economic development on the results generated by multinational companies, this distorted system may now be a reason for optimism based on numbers, the structure and the global macroeconomic and economic policy approach will not be sufficient to serve future generations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-24-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-10-24-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today's debate is very instructive, because what is happening is what I expected to hear, with the representatives of the ruling party and, obviously, the secretary of state, with his own preparation, and the opposition is trying to talk about the people behind the numbers, and we want to show the trends that show that the political change in the country that has been strengthened by the municipal elections after the elections to the European Parliament is not a coincidence. You can count fantastic numbers, you'll have a number for everything, which, if it's positive, will point up, if there's a better number in a more negative direction, and you'll give an example of that. It's just that the ten million-dollar community that lives in this country just doesn't feel comfortable. There are quality of life problems, there are vision problems for Hungarian citizens, and I think that a solution must be found as soon as possible. On the one hand, you can see that the trend is as if the Hungarian economy is performing fantastically. There are data that support good performance, but when the Hungarian people are confronted with the fact that these data are weaker in Central European comparison or, let's say, in the comparison of the Visegrad countries, for example, they are fading away. When it is read that Hungary is the second poorest country in the European Union after Bulgaria, then they are spoiled. When it is read that in the health statistics of the European Union, which assess and examine the quality of health services, Hungary was in a better position during the Gyurcsány government with 6-8 seats, we were ahead of the Italians and Belgians, and now we are practically only in a dead race with Bulgarians, they see that something is wrong. When Hungarians see that less and less Hungarian students are studying in the education system and less and less people are getting into public-funded education, people are losing their spirits. No matter how good a macro number comes, and they say how impressive Hungarian growth is among the Member States of the European Union, people experience very little of this in their quality of life. And I also draw attention to the fact that when we talk about people in the background of trends, we have to think about what kind of vision a Hungarian family has in today's financial, budgetary and budgetary framework when you talk about the year of families. They don't have much of a chance of getting an apartment. This, for example, is the first problem. There are rent rates in Budapest that charge between HUF 200 and 300 thousand for a studio apartment. How many young beginners have that kind of money for rent, and then they didn't pay rent? But let's say those of you who are getting married, because you're saying that the family is important, obviously not only the Borkai family is important, so what are the options for these families? There is an opportunity for these families to see that when they want to have a child, they read that the child's emergency department at the Honvéd Hospital is closed. Then they read that there aren't enough pediatricians in this country. You may be able to show how much the wages of doctors or nurses have increased in the last eight years, but even so, the trend is that there are fewer doctors in this country and fewer nurses in this country. When you see that you're talking about kindergarten renovations and school support, but you see that there's not enough room, then again, you're not gonna feel any better about it. And by the year of the families, it was also typical that all those who wanted to buy a flat here, in one minute, the house savings here were removed by you with a single pen stroke, the saving opportunity that would have been predictable for all young Hungarian families for years. It's no coincidence what the reality behind the numbers shows. It shows that since you govern, fewer children have been born. When we steered, more children were born. When you govern, there's more death when we govern, less death. I am hearing a number of criticisms from Members of the Fidesz Group here that the last eight years are still the period 2002-2010. I would like to point out that, during the first three years, a single HUF EU resource did not come, because we were not members of the Union. So you here take the comparison as completely natural for the period 2002-2010 and 2010-2019, while in 2002, at the time of the change of government, we were not members of the Union, in 2003 we were not members, we entered the European Union in 2oo4, and in December 2005 the first Hungarian Prime Minister was in a position to comment on the budget of the Union at all. And not only did Ferenc Gyurcsány comment, I add, but at the last minute he made another billion euros in development money for Hungary. This is more than 300 billion forints at current prices. And speaking of our general economic well-being, let's not forget that you have completely ruined the Hungarian currency. Orbán said that only a weak government could want a weak forint. Compared to this, the weakest forint of all time was produced by the Orbán government. That's a fact. It is also a fact that, on the basis of forints, public debt did not increase in proportion to GDP. That's a fact. As is the fact that people's quality of life is also influenced by the fact that petrol prices have also reached a record during your administration. And it is also a fact that it is possible to say how well the pensioners did not benefit from the Elisabeth voucher and other pensions! The pensioners did not benefit, it is a one-time gift, and if the pension calculation system was still in place during the Gyurcsány government, each pensioner would today have 80,000 forints more each year. Every year! You didn't help the pensioners, you made pensioners poor. You have to see how much you have in your basket for a pensioner today, and anyone who remembers what it was ten years ago can remember how much it was. And then I didn't even mention that the 27 percent world record VAT is also being paid by Hungarian citizens. There has also been a discussion of how unemployment has fallen. Of course, if you count the hundreds of thousands of people who left the country! And there is also a deterioration of quality here. When a Hungarian teacher, a Hungarian high school teacher, in an Austrian village, is a housewife? ! Well, I wouldn't call it that... he makes more money, I understand that, and I understand how it goes, because the family has to make a living, but I couldn't imagine a Hungarian future for that. I wouldn't think that would be the Hungarian future. I would think that we would keep young people here and start a rental program for them, let them get into the university, not expect brutal tuition from them. You made a referendum in 2008 on the fact that the Gyurcsány government wanted to introduce a tuition fee of approximately 5-7 thousand forints. Today at ELTE Law Faculty a semester of 270 thousand forints. So who put in tuition? You have introduced tuition fees, and you are indebted to the Hungarian students. [[16.10]] I also think it is important to talk about closing accounts, about the fantastic developments in most of them, but in the meantime, there is no money for basic things. So you can imagine and think of how this affects, say, the Hungarian voters in a municipal election, because that is why, among other things, what happened, and I hope that this is only the beginning of a trend, and they actually reach 22, when they read that the state football stadium costs HUF 200 billion, it costs HUF 200 billion! This will cost more per chair than the future Bernabeu Stadium of Real Madrid, which will not be 65,000, but 90,000. And in the meantime, they see that a little boy named Zente has to raise money, because there is no money for the Hungarian state to give the medicine to his muscular dystrophy disease because he won't give it. So yelling contrasts with reality, and what you're trying to suggest with numbers. It is said that the standard of living of pensioners is not reduced, because you make up for it precisely, and inflation is not calculated! You have to go to a grocery store and see what conditions there are, how much worse things are. For me, it will be an eternal horse, and here and now, even if no one is watching it on TV, and it is only for the parliamentary record: schools were renovated between 2002-2010, not even a little, hundreds; medical clinics were renovated; then they completed air rescue in Hungary. When you say how fantastic Hungarian industrial production data is, that Mercedes factory was brought here by the Gyurcsány government! So I just want to draw attention to a little fairness. So, then, there were no devils in government, just as no angels now govern. Back then, it wasn't the government's intention to destroy the country and the nation. They worked to make the country grow and grow. I don't dispute that from you, either, basically. Another issue is that I do not agree with their policies at such a level that it is an outrage to me as well. And just to add, where's the $3,000 billion private pension gone? Where is he? They said they were gonna cut government debt. Well, it wasn't translated. Where the hell is that money, 3000 billion forints? And then I didn't tell you that it was a complete decision against the civilian future, against the planned future, that you basically said that someone's savings were einstand. And there's one more question. If the Hungarian economy is doing so well, why don't we adopt the euro? Because then you couldn't machine with the exchange rate, then everyone would see clearly. All you have to do is look at it. Croats aren't stupid, I'm guessing they're about to introduce them. And the trend is to do this, the exchange rate stability, the predictable future, and all that. In the summer of 2010, when Lajos Kósa and Péter Szijjártó were tossing with the term bankruptcy, the exchange rate ran out, and many of them evidently became rich. Finally, I think it is very important that, on 13 October, the country sent a message to the power that it could no longer be done; that was enough of the arrogance; that was enough of the nagging; that was enough of the teaching of everyone; that was enough of the world, that the European Union was lectured, that the Hungarians, who did not agree with you, were a traitor, and the rest, and the rest. For example, you want to solve the labour crisis by bringing in foreigners. Filipinos, Turks, Romanians, Ukrainians come and build a working hostel for them. In places where these workers' hostels are being built, the value of real estate has already begun to decline, because people have begun to fear. And they're not afraid because they might become evil people. They are afraid because you have taught them that the alien, the foreigner, has to be feared by migrant migration. Now, this country had had enough of it on October 13th, and once again, I am very confident that this is only the beginning of a process, and by 2022, the whole country will have a change. The Hungarian reality cannot be obscured by numbers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-24-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group.
u2019-10-24-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Then I would like to comment only on a professional basis, and since I promised that in relation to health, then I will try to refer only to the facts, the numbers, what happened in 2018. In addition to the possible positives of the closing accounts, the government's health policy is well demonstrated by the lack of confusion and long-term planning in the 2018 accounts. The lack of planning mentioned at the outset illustrates that the closure of the 2018 budget for the main figures differs significantly from the number of budgets adopted in 2017. First, it is worth drawing attention to the wages of workers in health institutions. In the beginning, it may seem positive what I'm going to say, but it will turn out to be the unplanning and disorganization that the numbers reflect. You can see that there is a difference of HUF 40 billion between 289 billion of the budget and 329 billion of the closing accounts. That's more than 10 percent difference. The fundamental reason for this derogation is not only that wage increases were rescheduled during the year, but also that the rate of wage increases in the budget was unfounded. It is also important to point out that in the proposed MSZP amendment to the 2018 budget, we would have allocated HUF 352 billion to healthcare workers' wages. If this was adopted, it would have provided full coverage for the rate of wage increases carried out last year and even a higher level of wage increases in the budget. What is most important, however, is that in the amendment proposal of the MSZP, the amount spent on the wages of health workers is much closer to the number of budgets implemented than the bill submitted by Fidesz in 2017. In short, it can be said that the health amendment proposed by the MSZP is much more valid, closer to reality, more suited to the needs of the health sector than Fidesz's proposal in this area. The surplus calculated in relation to the closing account proposed by the MSZP would have been able to eliminate precisely the maladministration that was observed with regard to the Fidesz wage increases. These maladministrations were observed when the basic wages of health workers, especially health workers, affected by wage increases, did not reach the minimum wage. In this case, the wages did not increase, as the wage increase concerned the basic wage. The difference between the basic wage and the minimum wage has merely decreased, but since by the power of the law the employee could not earn less than the minimum wage, this did not mean a substantial increase in wages. This problem has affected more than ten thousand health workers in the 2018 budget. There is even a more drastic difference in the actual edition of health institutions. The drastic difference between 234.5 billion of the budget and 310 billion of the closing accounts is HUF 75.5 billion. [[16.20]] This represents a 32 percent difference compared to the amount foreseen in the budget. The primary reason for this difference is the annual debt of hospitals and the repayment of the debt at the end of the year. We see every year what a problem this is for the budget, but what a problem it is for hospitals and through it for doctors and patients. This solution, which can be seen as a feature of health policy after 2010, results in hospitals building up debt of HUF 40-60 billion each year by the end of the year. It is clear from the Competitiveness Programme issued by the Hungarian National Bank that the debts of hospitals increased so dramatically after 2010. On the basis of these considerations, it is therefore understandable that the difference between the budget and the closing accounts is, however, one of the most striking manifestations of the previously mentioned inability to plan, since it can be seen that although the government is aware that the resources it provides to hospitals are not sufficient for the normal operation of hospitals, it is not, however, willing to raise this amount to a significant extent, i.e. to plan hospitals' budgets so that they do not start from debt. Since then, we have seen either some kind of commissioners being put in charge of hospitals or trying to blackmail hospitals for what serious consequences they will have if they do not manage well. At this point, it is important to note that the amending proposal submitted by the MSZP to the budget would have covered this debt in hospitals, and in relation to this number, it can also be seen that the MSZP proposal was much closer to the budget actually implemented, containing more realistic figures than the budget originally submitted by the government. As regards funding, it should be noted that the government remained in debt by restructuring the financing system, although the 2020 budget included a reference to this, so that the review of minimum conditions by restructuring and reviewing the hbc and social security systems, which currently results in maladministration that hospitals are more worthy to amputate limbs than to save them, so Hungary is among the first in the European Union with regard to amputated limbs. And here I would like to bring up the level of funding for the dental practice, which has not been done since. With regard to the latter, it is important to mention that dentists declared a strike in 2019 due to the fact that dental practitioners were practically close to unsustainable. Similar problems can be mentioned for the personal expenses of the National Rescue Service, where the difference between HUF 26 billion and HUF 33.5 billion of the budget is 28 percent. At this point, attention should be drawn to the fact that otherwise highly underpaid paramedics threatened the medical wallet with a strike at the beginning of 2018. For example, the salary of a paramedic after the salary increase in 2018 did not reach HUF 200,000 net. There were also a number of people whose basic wages were below the minimum wage, and therefore, according to the circumstances described in the hospital staff, they were left out of the wage increase. Of course, in the case of OMSZ, too, it can be seen that the MSZP's proposal for this area, the HUF 40 billion, is closer to the budget actually implemented than the government's proposal is HUF 6.5 billion, the difference between closing accounting and the proposal of the MSZP, which shows not only the legitimacy of the socialist proposal, but also that it would actually have been able to achieve the wage increase that the paramedics otherwise deserved. Finally, the drug register is worth a closer look. The difference between 265 billion of the budget and 357 billion of the accounts is 34%, which is HUF 92 billion. In addition to the HUF 265 billion budget, a HUF 72 billion reserve was added to the budget, which totaled HUF 337 billion. Even when the budget was planned, it was clear that the expenditure on pharmaceuticals in 2017 would be higher than the amount planned by the government. This difference, according to Tamás Székely's calculations, was HUF 3 billion, and indeed, it can be seen that if the provision is added to the expenditure, it also represents a difference of HUF 20 billion compared to what was included in the closing account. In addition to the provisions, the MSZP's amendment would provide a total of HUF 387 billion to the drugstore. This difference is due to the fact that the Hungarian Socialist Party would have provided the medicines for people over 65 free of charge. If we compare the amount of free medicine that would cost people over 65 years of age with about HUF 20 billion, then we can see that the MSZP proposal contains more valid figures than the government has submitted. On the basis of the above, it can be seen that the medical portfolio is simply incapable of assessing the financial consequences of its own actions and is unable to plan the budget in such a way that it reflects the real expenditure on the budget. As a result, healthcare funding is opaque, and every year there is nothing but government firefighting. For nine years, the government has not been able to provide a solution after nationalization of health institutions for the debt-to-health institutions, for the long-term treatment of debts. Instead, it adopts budgets that keep hospitals in constant indebtedness. This solution is clearly capable of curbing the costs of hospitals, but it is not at all capable of creating transparent, reliable and sustainable health care. It has not modernised the financing of hospitals, it has not fully reviewed the minimum conditions. The budget has not slowed down the emptiness of the GPs, which now affects more than 600,000 people and entire regions. Today, around 600,000 people in Hungary do not have access to general medical care on a daily basis. In fact, the number must also be stated that today in Hungary almost 30,000 is reached by the number of patients whose disease is not so serious as to justify their death, but by the fact that they are unable to obtain adequate health care in Hungary today. Secretary of State knows how many people we're talking about if we look at the last nine years just because they refuse to deal with health in the way they deserve. The government has not provided adequate resources for home dentists to maintain the practice normally. By the way, if we look at the situation of Hungarians as to how we stand, how the teeth of Hungarians are okay, we can also say that we cannot boast or even go behind the back of the European Union. It does not provide adequate wage increases, it does not provide professional respect for health workers, it keeps health wages around national average wages, even though our health workers deserve more. As a consequence, the number of unfilled health jobs increased in 2018 compared to previous years. These are shortcomings, which all contribute to the fact that the Hungarians today regard health as the country's biggest problem, since Hungary not only spends little on health care, but also the use of health resources is not effective. I have repeatedly said in my speeches that if we opposition politicians do not believe, if Hungarian people do not believe what is happening in health care today, what is happening in general medical practice, what is the condition of these practices, what is the condition of the cord of the general practitioners, and I have not even told you about pediatricians, what is the situation of a patient if he goes to the hospital, what is the situation of the nurses, the surgeons are only about a few scandals, when only because the basic equipment does not function in an operating room, I am talking about the climate when the climate does not work in the operating room, and let us say that this is not happening in the summer, but in October, when the weather is extremely high in October, and a doctor will only be ill because the climate does not work, and then we do not even talk about the risk of infection and other problems. So, if you do not believe us politicians, then I ask you, and I have said this many times here in Parliament, that criticisms of the profession must be drawn up, which is now quite loud, they are now making quite a lot of criticism, either by the Chamber of Medicine or by all the other trade unions who are doing this and protecting the interests of the workers. [[16.30]] Then I would ask the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State to listen to this. And in response to the words of the Secretary of State, yes, Mr. Secretary, you may only be looking at the numbers, but I can only repeat myself, the numbers always include human lives and human fates. And, believe me, Hungarian voters are not interested in your numbers, they are interested in what they live every day. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-10-24-70	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-10-24-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I wasn't prepared to comment today, but I finally decided to speak to some points, mainly because not everything in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is done or done exactly as the nice numbers are heard here and as the government plans. Minister of State Banai spoke about public work, the public work programme and how much the number of people involved in the public work programme has decreased, and he assessed this as a result, at least I noticed it from his words. What I see is that it is true that the number of people participating in the public work programme has decreased, but in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County this did not happen as Secretary of State says that these people were able to work on the labour market, but fell out of any income and were not on the side of the road, but away from it. There were many settlements in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County where the number of people involved in the public work programme had to be reduced by 40 percent overnight, and people could not decide which families would remain without income in the future. And it wasn't because these people were on the labour market, it was because there was a government decision that made them lose even the tiny little livelihood they had. And unfortunately, they didn't find a place in the labour market. This decision is difficult for the government to fit into the year of the family, and neither are many other decisions. For example, in relation to the year of families, I would refer to the slave law, which clearly allowed those who were in employment to spend much more overtime with their families. And I think that's against the fact that the year of families hasn't really been able to make it. But I would also like to join in what was said by my fellow Member Dániel Z. Kárpát and many of my fellow Members, who referred to the fact that more than a thousand families were on the streets that same year, in the year of the families, due to the known problems with foreign exchange credit. I would like to draw attention to one more important statistics on the year of families, namely why the government called this year the Year of Families. It's because it's obviously designed to make some kind of change in demography, at least that's what he's advertised. On the other hand, we can see that many people have also said that demographic indicators have deteriorated very hard over the past few years. Here I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, according to KSH, in 2009 the number of live births in Hungary was 96 thousand, while in 2018 it had already fallen to 89 thousand. This is a very, very significant reduction, if you look at it as a percentage. Then I would like to draw attention to one more thing, namely the fact that the Secretary of State also spoke about the VAT reduction, which is very welcome. We have also supported VAT cuts, and we have even suggested a lot of them ourselves, which areas where VAT should be reduced from 27 percent to 5 percent, and we consider this to be very important in the area of food in particular. However, there was a mistake in the implementation of this, and I think it is a very, very significant mistake, that when the VAT fell to 5%, it was also implemented in trade for a few months. This was observed in multi-trade companies: it was six months before the VAT fell, in terms of VAT falling from 27 per cent to 5 per cent or from a lower to even lower rate, and when it took place on 1 July and I think that this was done on the basis of an agreement with the government, all of a sudden, the multi-trade companies on the same day have all raised it back to that original level. I specifically observed the price of milk for multi-company companies, where they immediately returned the VAT to the original on 1 July. And where does the rate of VAT decrease come down? It does not strike with the Hungarian population, not with the Hungarian people, not with the pensioners, with the small children and with the large families, and the rest, not with the Hungarian people, but with the multi-commercial companies. I would like to draw the government's attention to this, and let us see that we do not support multinational companies by reducing VAT, but we do try to make this work, and the rate of VAT reductions is also helpful to the population. It's a pay grade. The rise in the wage level is also a good thing and a very important thing, as stressed by the Secretary of State, but we also need to see that when we talk about 10-11 percent wage grade growth, we also see that this is not nearly as much in euro, because if there is a 10% wage increase, but if there is a 7 percent HUF discount during the same period, then the Hungarian people's earnings on the international market will only improve by 3 percent. And what we can see is that even when multinational companies have to express 3 percent real wage development in Hungary, they still rebel. And how do you respond to that? Foreign migrant workers are brought in from Mongolia, Vietnam, Turkey, Ukraine and everywhere. Why? In order to avoid further increases in wages in Hungary, the workers with low wages should be there for the multinationals. In fact, they're being served with this. But I also have other criticisms about the wage level, namely why the government does not pay attention to the fact that Hungary is not torn in two or three parts. Because what we see in Hungary is that the work force of a worker in North-East Hungary is completely different, it's worth something else to a capital city, it's worth something else to a West-Hungarian. What am I thinking here? For example, in Győr-Moson-Sopron County at the moment, according to the first half-year KSH data on July 1, 2019, a man from Győr-Moson-Sopron County has a gross income of HUF 450 thousand. On the other hand, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County there will be much less, HUF 246 thousand, almost half of the earnings will be paid to a Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county man. I'm sorry, for the people of Budapest 450,000 HUF, not for Győr-Moson-Sopron County, I misjudged this earlier, but the difference between the wages in Budapest and the wages in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. We can also see that this tear is getting stronger. For example, for Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, the scissors are even more open than before, because compared to Hajdú-Bihar county or Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, even compared to the two neighbouring counties, the fall is quite significant. This is 35-45 thousand forints in connection with one county and the other. And what do we see? Two years ago, the difference between the national average and the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county wages was nearly HUF 80,000, this scissor continued to open, today we are talking about HUF 113 thousand between the national average and the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county wages. And it also shows that the government seemed to forget about the northeast of Hungary, forgot about Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. When we implement a budget, I would think that somewhere a government would also have the task of trying to make up for the differences that do exist within the country, and these differences are constantly increasing. And I would also like to respond to the words of my fellow Member, Attila Tilki, who, as a Member of Parliament in the most eastern Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county region, made it feel like there was such a development there and that the inhabitants, as many as possible, are developing in numbers, because it is such a good area. But I'd rather talk about that at the end. So I think there are very serious anomalies here. I just wanted to remember one thing about government debt, but many people have already said that the indicators are really very beautiful, and I am also very pleased that the structure has changed, it is better to belong inward than outwards, and it is better to be in debt than in euros, in dollars, it is better to be indebted, it is definitely worth it, but it also has to be seen that the government debt has increased enormously over the period of the Orbán government since 2010. So we are not talking about a decrease here; in some respects, of course, we can talk about a decrease, but this is a terrible increase in nominal terms, since the Hungarian government debt has increased from HUF 19 000 billion to HUF 28 000 billion. [[16.40]] This means that we can talk about a 50 percent increase in nine years, and this is a huge measure. I do not think that there has been any real progress on the part of the government. Unemployment. Everywhere they tell us how beautiful unemployment is, how good it is, about 3.5 percent of unemployment is in Hungary. Here again I refer to the breakdown of the country, because in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county this indicator is 8.7 percent, and this is a huge problem that is 8.7 percent, but I think it is even worse that in 2018 unemployment in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county increased by 6 percent in just one year. Of course, here I am pointing out that it has increased so much, this is the statistical data of the HCSO, which has increased by 6 percent compared to the previous year, the Secretary of State for Unemployment should look into the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, and I think that this growth comes primarily from people who are permanently exposed to public employment, I think, but I really don't know. These are the reasons why unemployment is so high, the wages are so low, that from there it is the largest emigration, from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County to the rest of Hungary, West Hungary, Central Hungary and to the rest of Hungary. I think it's very big to have a six percent increase within a single year in a county. In response to the words of my fellow Member, Attila Tilki, that there is demographic growth at the eastern end, and that the village programme is responsible for it, and the rest, well, I doubt that this is due to it, and I would like to ask how it happens that they are registered in a 70-80 sq m apartment, say, 150 people, all Ukrainian-Hungarian double citizens. Was it a good circumstance that 150 people live in a 70 - square - meter apartment? So, let's just say it's not exactly half a square foot each for the people who live here. I would like to refer, for example, to the example of Kispalad. The village of Kispalad, located in the neighbourhood of my fellow Member Tilki, had 539 inhabitants in 2011. This increased to 1164 in 2016, more than double in five years. I looked at the village of Wikipedia, Kispalad, and I also bought these data from there, and I would like to quote the following from Wikipedia:, There is a family house where more than 100 Ukrainian-Hungarian dual citizens have checked in, even though no one has seen them. The mayor refused to deny the assumptions that he had supported these entries primarily for election fraud. Well, I don't know, I wouldn't be proud of what progress there is in the Eastern region, especially if there are such opinions about what's going on in that region. So I wanted to draw the State Secretary's attention in this speech to the anomalies in the middle, in the western and in the northeast of Hungary, or even the eastern part. Indeed, it would be the government's responsibility to take into account, when implementing these developments, where there is such a surplus of labour at national level, where it is, when the population is unable to obtain the income from which they could make a living, and to pay much more attention to ensuring that these conditions are balanced at national level. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-10-24-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz Group.
u2019-10-24-73	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. There is a discreet charm of feeling that Jobbik and Gyurcsány's party, DK, are so united on cross-border issues. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Really?]] Mr President has joined the Hungarian hater line. A lawyer is expected to at least pay attention to what the other person has said when speaking to Parliament. Didn't I say that Transcarpathians bought real estate? That's what I said. To conclude from this that you have drawn on election matters [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Fraud!]] I think that's wrong. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Are you serious, Congressman?]] But the conclusion is also wrong, Congressman, that these people have disappeared and are nowhere to be found. If you were an individual representative, [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: I didn't say it, I said it was Wikipedia!]] if you were an individual representative, you would know precisely that people from public employment are going to the primary labour market. If only you had [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: 10 percent! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you had 88 settlements and talked to the mayors, you would know precisely that a large part of the people are going to the primary labour market. But if you were to drive with your eyes open on the M3 motorway, you would see precisely that the increased car traffic on the M3 every week is due to an accident on Monday morning, because people go up to work, most of the people working in the construction industry are coming from our county. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why can't they get jobs there to work locally?]] So we're not leaving them on the side of the road, working on the primary labour market, Congresswoman... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why don't you give them the job on the spot?]]
u2019-10-24-74	Congresswoman!
u2019-10-24-75	Congresswoman, give us a moment. And I got 70 percent, Congressman, because I'm authentic. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Especially because of the chain votes and the announced people!]] But the common list of Jobbik and Momentum is simply astounding for a local man. So by blowing a stone with Gyurcsány, look at what I received in the parliamentary election and the difference between the votes cast on the opposition in total is 15,000 votes. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] What are you talking about?
u2019-10-24-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure. Please, my fellow Members, everyone has the opportunity to press a button, so do it.
u2019-10-24-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond briefly to Attila Tilki. In the first place, I do not see the solution to the situation of Hungarians across the border moving to Hungary. I think that everyone should get along at their place of birth, and that we and the Hungarian government must do everything in our power to make sure that the opportunity to thrive happens in their own homeland. I think it is very, very important that these people remain in their homeland, so that the territory of Transcarpathia, which has a Hungarian population, can remain Hungarian inhabitants and has a Hungarian majority. I think this is very important. But it's one thing. The other issue is the labour market. My fellow Member Tilki also told me what was happening: traffic on the M3. It's really grown, and these people are really going, and that's exactly what I said. I consider this a huge problem that we cannot solve the labour problem of these people in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, their livelihoods are not in their own county, and a good part of the Transcarpathians also go to work in Western Hungary, they go to work in Western Europe, that is not the problem. The problem is, we can't help them get along in their own homeland. I would like to see jobs in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County so that people do not have to leave their families for a week, leave them for a month and go out to work in Western Europe, and meet the children only on weekends, but we do want them to manage their own homeland. That is why I would like the government to have investments in the future that would focus on building opportunities for job creation in North-East Hungary, including foreign companies, to try to invest in the area where people do not have to go, so that Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County does not become the starting point for immigrants, and not to talk about the disappearance of tens of thousands from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County again, but we want a developing county. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-10-24-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the MSZP Group, for a two-minute speech.
u2019-10-24-79	Thank you very much. I would like to briefly address only one question to the Secretary of State, which came to my mind during the debate. The government plans a strategic change to provide such large state aid for job creation now less than it has done in recent years, since we see that there is a shortage of labour in Hungary, in Hungarian, to spend additional serious taxpayers' forints or even European Union funds to bring purely job-creating investments to Hungary, this seems to make the situation worse. But perhaps it would be more important to support a quality workforce or a knowledge-based workforce. Several experts, otherwise involved, have brought this to the attention of the government. [[16.50]] This is also interesting because we have often received criticism that we were on the side of multinational companies when we were ruling. Compared to this, you seem to be giving a multinational company three to four times what the left-wing governments previously gave you for a job-creating investment. But it can even be justified, it should always be considered in the given situation, in the case at hand. However, on the whole, it can be said that this type of incentive system may no longer be needed, but rather, it would be helpful to attract knowledge-oriented and quality workers or attract these types of industries. This might also improve productivity and competitiveness. I know this is a complex question, but I would like to ask you this specifically in terms of numbers and plans. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-24-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Ildikó Horváth from the Ministry of Human Resources has applied for a speech. Madam Secretary of State shall have the floor. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2019-10-24-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, I would like to reflect on the fact that we have heard comments from an MSZP representative on the area of health about planning and unplannedness. Here and now I would like to take the moment to go back a little bit in time when the MSZP governed, and we wrote about 2006-7-8-9. Meanwhile, 600 billion forints were withdrawn from health care. At that time, hospitals were shut down that brought patients to the street literally, and patients on the street died because of the unplanned action because of the reckless action that had taken, for example, the famous, internationally recognised National Institute of Psychiatric and Neurology, one day shut down and let the patients in there loose. I think it is very important that, when it comes to planning, we should be aware that not only this hospital has been closed, but the government led by the MSZP has closed the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy, the Szabolcs Street Hospital and the Schöpf-Mere Hospital. It caused wounds on the health care body when it eliminated 16,000 active beds, when it laid off 6,000 health workers, took away one month's wages from health workers, introduced a visit fee, hospital daily allowance, which is very difficult to replace, and it is very difficult to manage and plan for health care to heal every year, day after day, and move the country from year to day towards healthier Hungary. According to OECD data, health expenditure per capita decreased in real terms between 2003 and 2009. Hungary was the only country where it decreased, on average by 0.4 percent per year. What the government has been doing since 2010 is a different direction. He did not take 600 billion forints, but added more than 600 billion forints, he put 647 billion forints into health care by 2019 compared to 2010 exactly. He does not expel doctors and nurses from our country, but calls back by improving their respect, the state of their living and working conditions, and by continuing the commitment he has shown in recent years. In this regard, it has already committed itself to raising wages from 2016 to 2018, not only in such a way as to increase wages, but also to continue to raise wages by 72 per cent by 2019. In 2016-17, he not only raised the wages of doctors and specialists by 57 percent, but also committed to raising the wages of doctors over the next four years. And not only by putting together a scholarship system for young graduating doctors not to happen, as in the country left by the MSZP government, when it was about 40 percent of the newly graduated doctors, less than every second doctor who joined the Hungarian medical institution, but we should be glad that our graduates, young doctors who graduated here, stay here and join the care system. This year we know that more than 70 percent of them really want to work as part of the health care system. I am convinced that they did not go by chance, but by the planned, committed work, that every year Hungarians have increased their life expectancy in health, and their life expectancy has increased, both in men and women, in men, in women we have been able to do much more than men, but in absolute numbers. I think it is very important that this work can be done by moving forward on the different pillars as well. We focus on prevention, focusing on programs that build on people's own health as a treasure, taking care of it, and being aware of it. I think it is very important that we can put 10 billion HUF more into the development of basic care with our second programme, the three generations for health. I think it is very important what the Member said about the salary of dentists. Dentists are private entrepreneurs who themselves know that they did not declare a strike, but wanted to draw attention to the need to have a unified approach to basic care in the system. This has been accepted by the management, we represent this unified approach, and we have agreed with dentists on the steps we will take in the coming years. And we're confident that they're committed to doing what they promised to do when they were in basic care, they're committed, they've signed a contract. I think what you said and what you referred to is important, but it's not. Since 2010, the number of people who died of chronic illness in Hungary has decreased by 17 percent. In those indicators, we were much weaker in the previous period, suggesting that the health care system is improving and better served than it was before 2010. I think it is very important to point out that this change, the reduction in the number of people who have died of chronic illness, is created in a situation where life expectancy increases. It is well known that not only in our country, but also throughout the world, there are growing numbers of older people living and that the state can give them a better quality of life with the contribution of the healthcare system, it is indeed a positive system that changes the situation and opportunities significantly. The developments, the changes that took place in this regard in Hungary, were faster, larger-scale than the average of the European Union, faster, larger-scale than in several V4 countries. We have established the national anticancer programme, the national circulatory, musculoskeletal, child health and mental health programme, in order to continue the work we have done so far with further progress in an organised framework. The planned, organised and very rigorous strategy, the health strategy of healthy Hungary from 2014 to 20, is an excellent framework for this. I can suggest that you study it, too. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-24-82	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-10-24-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to share with you a few more thoughts on the implementation of the budget law. To be honest, I'm very happy that the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources was right in front of me, because one of the issues I wanted to address is precisely the competence of this area. On Monday, Prime Minister said in his speech how much more money the government spends on health than it spent in 2010. I am sorry that Prime Minister is not informed enough because he said less than half the amount that this government actually spent more in 2018 than in 2010, but he doesn't need to know everything, and sometimes the consultants are superficial. But the point is that in 2010 the Health Insurance Fund had a available source of HUF 1476 billion, and in 2018 it had HUF 2434 billion. The difference is 958 billion. This could sound very good over the course of eight years, but it will not sound good because if we look at the increase in prices and the increase in average wages during this time, we can see that average wages have increased by 63 percent, prices have increased by 21,6 percent, so that the cost of healthcare has financed only the rise in prices and the rise in wages, so that the government does not spend any more on health in real terms of 2010-18. [[17.00]] Of course, Prime Minister, he did not say that he was thinking about this in real or nominal terms, but the fact is that there is no development on this issue that he tried to tell us here on Monday, and even after seeing that although a very large number of institutional developments have been made, there is also a very large amount of asset purchases, there is one small problem: we cannot operate them effectively because we do not have the human resources, that is, the person who could work in these beautiful buildings with these modern tools. I will not say so strongly here in front of this House that we have a number one hospital that has a department where the high level of implementation of surgical programs cannot be carried out with the new machines because the hospital has not paid the cost of the machines and is therefore not operating. So you have to believe that these things happen every day. What is important, however, is that the figures do not show that, in real terms, the government has spent the last eight years on improving health care. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] During my previous speech, I spoke about spending an incredibly large amount of money on the Prime Minister's Office and its associated members for HUF 1237 billion, but fortunately only for HUF 1162 billion, and I compared this figure to the annual budget for health care financed by the Health Insurance Fund, which was HUF 2434 billion in 2018. This means that we spend only twice as much on complete health care as on the Prime Minister's Office and its associated team. So I'm asking you very, very much from the government, sometimes compare these numbers, because the incredibly shame is that what this money-spending automatic Prime Minister's Office and its associates spend is 500 billion more than the entire municipal sector, half as much as the entire health insurance sector, two and half as the total spending of the public sector belonging to the Ministry of Human Resources. These comparative figures are important because in these details lies the great hurrah-optimism that we hear every day in this room from the representatives of the government, yet how not so perfect. I have just had an independent fellow Member say a few words about the issue of pensions, and it always leads me to believe that I too would like to examine this issue. In fact, Portfolio is constantly writing today that it is not possible to maintain this pension rate, something must be done, and, of course, always points it out to raise the retirement age, but I would like to say that the numbers do not dictate that such a strong thinking is needed. Firstly, in Hungary, as my fellow Member said earlier, 20 percent of men are not worth the retirement age. On average, Hungarian pensioners live 16,5 years only after the pension, while the EU average is 19.8 years. So I'm telling you right now, because I know exactly that it would be the Secretary of State present who would ever have to idealize such an intention, and Secretary of State Banai can support everything and the opposite of everything with some amazing, fantastic credibility... [[Péter Benő Banai intervenes.]] No, he always finds data, and I don't want to violate it, so that he can justify it, or even that. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: That's right.]] I apologize, but it seems to me that this is the unanimous position of the entire opposition. So what am I trying to get out of this? What I want to get out of this is that, on the one hand, they do not dare to do so until the EU average is reached by the age after retirement. The other is that we never look at how much the number of pensioners has increased over a certain period of time. In 17 years, only the number of pensioners increased by 3.8 percent. In a country with such a budget, such a country with huge tax and contribution revenues, over 17 years, the payment of 3.8 percent population growth would not even start such a thinking at all. So I'm bringing this up because it's gonna end up here someday, so we really feel that they write these articles from week to week so people can get used to this idea. Well, don't get used to it. You mustn't get used to it. Let me tell you one more thing. While the number of pensioners increased by 3.8 percent over 17 years, average wages increased by 63 percent over 8 years. And since the average wage is paid linearly for the percentage of the pension contribution, it is natural that, although there were some very low pension contributions, the average wage increase of 63 per cent is not such as to cover the 3.8 per cent increase in pension contributions over the course of 17 years. Let me tell you one more thing. The public life of this country and the morale of its employers, the overload of workers, are practically killing people. So the reason why so many people in Hungary are sick from a very low age is because most of their diseases are psychosomatic, and while public states, public life and employers' morals are against the fact that people should, if possible, reach a healthy retirement age, I would like to tell the government not to think about this issue. There is plenty of resources in the budget without excessive indebtedness to fit the Hungarian elderly people who have worked their whole lives into decent retirement opportunities, both in terms of age and size. Another issue is that I wouldn't tolerate such two million-million-dollar pensions in normal circumstances, which is once again the responsibility of this government, because the pension ceiling has been abolished. I say, too, that anyone who has been in a very high income and paid a high pension contribution for a long time should have a significantly higher pension, but the rates that have been born in recent years are also shocking, and every year this number increases significantly. A hundred words have one end: hurrahoptimism on the government side, criticism and realistic evaluation on the opposition side. I have not seen a single representative on the opposition side, who has not built his opinion on data. The other issue is, of course, that after the data, there is also an opposition representative, even because we are the soul of the people, the voice of the people, the thinking of the people in this Parliament. That is why we have been sent here, and if we weren't meant to extract the maximum possible benefit from the government and the most professional government, if we weren't here for this, then it would be practically pointless for us to come into this House. One is very pleased because I am slowly among the last speakers that at least this day, apart from one or two comments, has not repeated the terrible style of Monday. Many times, I say my opinion to my fellow pro-government Members, expressing what they are not doing well, but interestingly, they always go with nice words. We don't have to talk dirty, we have to talk vulgarly, to make the other person feel that we really disagree with what he's doing. To me, the scenes that accompanied me with such vulgar, obscene, nasty words and nasty behaviour are extremely painful, so at the end of this day, I thank all the Members and speakers who were present today that we were able to maintain our calmness, we were able to preserve the dignity of this House, and most of all our dignity, because we represent the citizens, and we must be worthy of them. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2019-10-24-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy. [[17.10]]
u2019-10-24-85	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Secretary of State's comment inspired me to press a button. Madam Secretary, do I recall being polite enough to comply with my fellow Member's request? The doctors celebrated you and your colleague in a modest manner when you told me about the enormous wage increase in health care. It seemed to me that you were a little more constrained at the time with regard to the prognosis of success. I felt sorry for you, because you were the one who was thrown over there how should I say it? As a victim to these disappointed and rightfully angry people, and you had to protect the unprotected. Now it is a little easier here in Parliament, because we are not doctors, this is not our profession, and we can tell you from the velvet chair this propaganda you have said here, but I think it would be a bit more modest to approach this than if Hungary and the Hungarian government were on the verge of a world success here when we talk about the health situation. I understand party politics, I understand that everyone likes to be secretary of state and stay. Now, at the end of November, the government conversion is coming, and I'm sure there's a lot to live up to. However, let me put it a little more modestly once again, especially if a Czech nurse is working for 45 percent higher wages. A Czech doctor, a beginner doctor, works for three times the salary. A Polish nurse works 85 percent higher than a Hungarian on average. These Visegrád countries, not Sweden, Finland or Switzerland, are the countries that live in the same conditions as us here in the region. But if you have mentioned all kinds of statistics that have actually made progress in the past nine years as much as ever in Hungarian history in terms of life expectancy and many things, in 2000-2017 for example, life expectancy has increased by four and a half years in Hungary. I don't know how that could be, because there was a socialist government in the process. And I'm sure we've done everything we can to reduce this life expectancy. 'Cause we're like we want people to get worse. But then you came, and then, I suppose, after 10:00, this jumped, I'm sure, because no government had anything to do with it before, because in the 2000s, even the performance of the Orbán government was involved. Then I would add that with this figure we are still five years below the EU average of 28, and even below the Visegrád countries with this figure. So let's be careful with the statistics, I'm sure everything can always be put out in a way that's good for us, but we can only bring statistics from different sources that, in a subtle way, nuance the wonderful image you painted. It seems to me that today in Hungary, in hospitals, it is actually a pleasure to be sick, because there are such fantastic circumstances that it is actually a pleasure to be admitted to a hospital and now I have to put it on purpose in this regard. He says it's been a huge improvement. Please, you know better than I do, because that's what you do: if you do nothing, you'll still improve health care, because there are new medicines, new procedures, new technical equipment. So if they are simply bought, the quality of health care in Hungary is already improving, but also in other countries, or if doctors prescribe new medicines, it is also possible to move forward with this, in connection with the development of medical science and industry. If I remember correctly, you said that in nine years an extra HUF 650 billion was added. Now, let's just stick to this song for a second. You say it was roughly 70-72 billion forints a year plus that cost you health care. If I count correctly, the Puskás Stadium costs 255 billion forints, and even if I add a stadium or two, this is 650 billion forints. It doesn't really mean anything. If you had said that I would put three or four Gunnery Stadium prices into health care, say, if we had listened to the fact that the economy is doing as fantastic as the fabulous, then we could certainly achieve much better results. It's just that you guys took a lot of money out of health care. They took money out of health care at HUF 100 billion a year. He says it's 70 billion forints plus, while the sector produces 100-150 billion minus for hospital debt every year. So in Hungarian, I'm not saying you didn't do anything. God forbid I should say that. In fact, I don't want to devalue anyone's work in that sense. But once again, let me finish with what I started by saying that it is appropriate to be modest in this sector, in this area, because you do not have the results on which to build this firmness and this success propaganda. And if you ever have to say another word to the Secretary of State in this House, you should always remember the experience that you had at the Medical Chamber event, that those who are involved in this matter are not us, Members, because they can swipe down on this, especially on opposition representatives; only people who have sat there against you and who have expressed their views accurately and clearly, not with signs, but with whistling. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-10-24-86	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking you if you're gonna last two minutes. [[Attila Mesterházy: No, I'm sorry.]] All right, thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai.
u2019-10-24-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I must be honest with you that, coming to an end here, I thought that I would only respond to what was said at the end, but in the context of the speech by Congressman Attila Mesterházy, let me say that if I recall correctly what the Secretary of State said, she did not speak of a success propaganda, but of facts. We were not talking about everything being perfect and not having a job, but we were saying that what the Member said now is factually not true is that the government would have taken money out of health care. Year after year in the budget debate and in the closure debate, we report how much money the government intends to make in each area and how much expenditure has been made. We can now see in the 2018 discharge debate that the state has not only spent more on health than in the previous year and to a significant extent not only compared to 2010, but also made a larger expenditure than originally planned for 2018. When it is said of the left that a little fairness is needed, not by you, but by Mr Zsolt Gréczy, I think that justice is also due to the civilian government in this respect. Mr President, Mr President, you know exactly the situation in which the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance took over governance in 2010. You know very well that we were under the excessive deficit procedure, and you know very well that in 2012, when this remarkable procedure was conducted against Hungary, the European Commission envisaged sanctions, the first wage increase in the public sector started with healthcare workers. On the basis of the 2018 final accounts, the 2019 budget and the 2020 budget, we see that the most significant wage increase within the public sector has been and will be achieved by workers in the health sector. I agree, of course, that everyone wants to make more money, and I do not dispute that, thanks to the wage dynamics of recent years, there is no pressure in the sector. I do not dispute that in many countries of Europe no more money could be made. However, my statement is that the government has treated health as a priority area, has managed wages to an extent that has resulted in substantial real income growth, seeing, of course, that there are still a number of tasks ahead of us, and that we are working on solving the problems on which the Member has focused attention and that more people have focused attention on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-24-88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Attila Mesterházy.
u2019-10-24-89	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr State Secretary, to decide how to classify a government measure from an opposition and with due respect, you do not have to help me do this. So if I think that this government is trying to continue a success propaganda in this area, while it does not have any success to celebrate, let this be my discretionary right to classify it this way, and I do not see that doctors, nurses and patients would otherwise see it differently. It can be said that mathematically you say that then 70 billion is more, and I don't know what more, but it is not true that you have treated health as a priority area. Do you know which area is being treated as a priority? The territory of Hungarian football is treated as a priority. Oh, yeah. There's a stadium all over the place! I'll sign that, it's a priority case. [[17.20]] The area of health is not a priority, Mr. Secretary of State. I also see that there are investments that become a priority issue, a national strategic issue, preferably, especially if Lőrinc Mé-száros or Tiborcz or someone can build these things. It's obvious it's an immediate priority. I already wish these people would show up in health care, because maybe it will be a priority, and then maybe because of them, these sectors will have more money. Because the joke is almost true that Hungary belongs to everyone but Lőrinc Mészáros. It would be good if the people who work in it weren't me, that's not the point, Mr. Secretary, how I judge it, the question is that the people in the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the nurses, the patients, when they get into the Hungarian hospitals, feel that this government treats health as a priority sector. As long as they do not feel it, Mr Secretary of State will accept that they will not treat this sector as such. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-10-24-90	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2019-10-24-91	Thank you for the floor. What I wanted to say more than once in the last year and a half when we discussed a budget or implementation is that Mr Secretary of State always talks about how much better economic policy this government is than the previous government and how much better its fiscal policy is, how more remarkable it is than the previous one. He used to tell me what mistakes the previous government had made. My only problem, Mr. Secretary of State, is that between 2002 and 2010, you were head of department and department of the Department of Finance and Finance Policy at the Ministry of National Economy and the Ministry of Finance, because they switched sides, and I'm telling you, I started to look at professional resources, when you might have told your superiors that they were doing something wrong in those eight years, and you would have stood up for it if they were wrong decisions, then they weren't. After all, you were still in the Ministry of Finance during the first Orbán administration, and of course you kept the new social-liberal government the whole time, and held very nice, honored positions. I wish to stress that I would not take this personally, but simply feel that if you were here as Secretary of State on the basis of your former mandate to give a negative opinion on the budgets you have prepared under this government, I would have liked to have seen you express yourself during the time, during the eight years that would have helped that government make the mistakes that you have made here, do not commit or have committed. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2019-10-24-92	Thank you, Congresswoman. We're out of opposition applications. Well, I'm just gonna ask if there's anyone you'd like to comment on. [[No signal.]] I don't see anything like that, so I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai as the author and as the final word.
u2019-10-24-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond first of all to what has been said in today's debate, but still allow me to respond to the words of the woman who is speaking in quasi-in parentheses. I think that the debate on a bill is more important than dealing with the personal course of individual life. At present, the Honourable Parliament is discussing the implementation of the 2018 budget, not the personal journey of individuals, but if you have already mentioned it, I must say that I started working in the then Ministry of Finance in 1998. I swore that I would serve the nation as best I could. I was an officer, as head of department from January 2002, and then as deputy head of department. I didn't take another position, I didn't take it. As of 2010, I was Deputy Head of Department and then Deputy State Secretary. I think that a person can do well by discussing his opinion in a closed circle, internal problems in a closed circle, just as it is appropriate to discuss problems in a family. In part, I have conducted my professional activities publicly, because I have published my opinion on EU budgetary relations, their developments, and the factors affecting public finances, but I have told my bosses what I have always represented. I did not want to and do not want to be political in the sense that it is often mentioned between the walls of this House, because I think that the preparation of the budget and the implementation of the budget are more serious issues in order to bring party political broad speeches into this issue. However, when the government is charged with what it has done or has not done in recent years, allow me, Congresswoman, to recall the situation from which this government started its work in 2010. It doesn't matter if, like the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Poland, we had to finance a debt of around 40 percent or over 80 percent. It doesn't matter whether this financing was available from the market, or whether it was the IMF alone that kept us alive. So I think that when I put the current results in context and I talk about what the government achieved after 2010 and what it achieved in 2018, we cannot go beyond what happened before 2010, because those processes have a decisive influence on the current period. Speaking of sovereign debt, Congresswoman, you know very well that the financing burden on public debt was well above 4 percent, we are now approaching 2 percent. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] If it weren't for the eight years between 2002 and 2010, when public debt climbed from 51 to 52 percent to more than 80 percent, and there wouldn't have been such a burden of financing, it would have been easier for us to talk about how health or education or other areas would be financed. So I think that you can't go past the facts. When I mention specific figures in my comments, look at them, I give factual figures from the history of the Hungarian economy after 2010 and before 2010. Let me then answer briefly to the professional questions of today. I think that closing accounts can be assessed from at least two aspects. On the one hand, the closure report should be about whether or not the objectives set at the time of the establishment of the budget have been met. On the other hand, it can be said that economic policy was the right thing to do when the government and the majority of Parliament adopted the 2018 budget. As far as the figures are concerned, the growth of the economy, I repeat, was achieved by 5.1 percent compared to the 4.3 percent plan. The general government deficit in accordance with the EU methodology was achieved by 2.3 per cent instead of 2.4 per cent. There was indeed a difference in the cash flow deficit compared to the planned figures, but I draw the attention of Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm to the document submitted: it was not the 500 billion gap you mentioned. The approved budget included HUF 1360.6 billion, the fact is HUF 1451.6 billion. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] This is the original number, Congresswoman, please check the numbers. What was the background to the difference? Congresswoman has rightly mentioned EU relations. If you look at EU relations, the evolution of EU relations alone would lead to a greater difference than the overall deviation of the central budget or the central government's cash flow balance. Consumption and revenue were also lower than EU programmes. Here again, with regard to growth, I have to say that if the narrative that the use of EU funds has driven growth and we see that the use of resources has been lower than planned, the growth of the Hungarian economy should have been lower than the planned economic growth of 4.3 percent. Instead, 5.1 percent was achieved. Why was the use smaller? We tried to explain the details in the so-called chapter volumes. One main barrier was the scarcity of construction capacity. We see that this economic growth, which marked Hungary not only in 2018 but also in the previous years, has in many cases resulted in a limit to growth, not only in demand, but also in demand in the construction sector, but also in supply constraints. [[17 .30]] This is why the use of EU funds has also been slower in many areas; there has not been enough construction capacity to absorb the available resources. However, overall, the relevant figure for the deficit, the data observed by investors, financial analysts and official bodies, is the deficit according to the EU methodology, which was achieved by 2.3 per cent instead of 2.4 per cent. The third item is debt, and we have also said a lot about it in today's debate. There is no doubt that, as long as a budget is lacking, that deficit must be financed in some way, such as by issuing sovereign debt, by credit. As long as this is the case, nominal debt will increase. But I ask you, as regards individuals, who is the better debtor: the one who has a hundred units of debt and the income of three hundred units [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You always say that.]] Or the one with a hundred thousand units of debt and a thousand units of income? The answer is clear. Not a better debtor with nominally lower debt, but a better debtor with a lower debt burden than his income. In recent years, we have seen that the total debt burden has decreased compared to Hungary's economic performance. This is called a reduction in the debt-to-GDP ratio. It is no coincidence that this is what every official body, market investor, is watching, and that is why confidence in Hungarian sovereign debt is increasing. Achievement of expenditure. It has been said several times on the basis of the 2018 accounts that, thanks to economic growth, a number of areas managed to maintain the deficit target with additional resources, such as health, education, law enforcement or defence-related expenditure. I therefore think that financial resources and financial collateral were also available in this respect to see progress in each area, while repeating in each area, I think that we still have a task to do. In this respect, I therefore believe that we are not talking about a success propaganda, we are talking about the facts when we find and conclude that the State Audit Office and Eurostat state that we have been able to deliver the main figures set out in the 2018 budget. In addition, let me say a few words about economic policy processes. Unfortunately, representatives of left-wing factions are no longer saying that we can't see people behind the numbers, we only deal with numbers and people can't. First of all, let me tell you that numbers are important things. Just the representatives of these left-wing factions would know where bad budget figures, bad macroeconomic figures, lead to the lives of individuals. I didn't want to bring it up, but if we are talking about comparisons again, let me say, on the basis of factually Eurostat data, that there were six consecutive years before 2010, when closing accounts showed that Hungary had the largest or the second largest deficit of public finances in Europe. This led to a radical increase in debt not only nominally but also in terms of GDP on the basis of factual data. This led Hungary to fall among the first to be forced to support the IMF when the economic crisis hit. This led to the fact that, in 2008-9, the governments of the time, using the words of those who have just spoken, somehow did not look at the man. What was the first of the stabilisation steps? The removal of the 13th month pension, the withdrawal of funds mentioned by the Secretary of State, such as the reduction of the wages of health workers. In this respect, I repeat, fairness, I think all sides are entitled to it. Unfortunately, this fairness was somehow not brought forward by the Members who criticized it. On the other hand, what I can say factually is that wages increased in 2018 and the real value of pensions increased. Family support. One of the priority areas of economic policy is support for families in order to give birth to the desired children. I find the debate on how the number of live births in opposition benches is developing to be unworthy of me. It's an important piece of data, but it's unworthy if we're just talking about it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But these are important!]] I ask you to understand that the government cannot increase the number of women born in the eighties retroactively. This is one of the important factors that determines how many children are born. Another important factor is the number of children that women of childbearing age have, and the government is able to provide financial assistance for this childbearing. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's not just a financial question! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: It's a question of the future!]] The 2018 closure report was about the significant increase in family support, and again the criticism of the civilian government in this regard is unworthy, when we can say that the support for families increased by hundreds of billion forints in 2018 compared to 2010. Of course, this is a condition for the desired children to be born. It is each family's own decision whether to have a child or not, but my statement is that having a child today represents more financial opportunities than it meant in 2010 or the previous years. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not enough!]] On the 2018 budget, and perhaps on the closing accounts, we can say that yes, this budget, this closing account, is also called the budget of the people who live from work, as nominal average earnings have increased by 11,3%. This was accompanied by an increase in real income. Of course, there have been different increases in different areas, this is an average number, where there have been higher, where there have been lower wage increases, but overall, there has been a substantial increase in wages for those working in the competitive sector and in many areas of the public sector. With regard to territorial differences, I think that this increase in wages, along with the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, has served precisely to increase the overall wage increase in the areas referred to by Mr Gyüre, for example, to an even greater extent. He highlighted Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. In counties where employees have a higher weight on minimum wage or guaranteed minimum wage, these counties have a greater impact on the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as it affects more people. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] Therefore, statistics show that, for example, in Szabolcs County in 2018, and if I remember correctly, there was a higher level of wage rise compared to the national average in 2017. Of course, there is room for improvement, but I repeat the regions on which the Member has drawn attention, were significantly affected by the wage increase that was made in 2018. If I spoke about family support within economic and social policy, I spoke about measures affecting jobs, and I have to say, in addition to wages, that the number of people employed has also increased, I have to say again as a third element that the real value of pensions has increased slightly in 2018, and in addition in 2018 it was possible to pay a pension premium, and Elizabeth's voucher has also been paid. This was also an important undertaking of the government in 2010 and the decision of the Parliament also required the government to at least preserve the value of pensions. What I can tell you is that, on the basis of the 2018 accounts, this commitment has been fulfilled, and even thanks to the said economic growth rate, pensioners have an open opportunity above this, as the Prime Minister said, to supplement the benefits of our parents, our grandparents. I think that, of course, we have a number of tasks. At present, I do not think that we should go through where, what tasks we have in relation to a closing account by sector, but we may be able to say that the 2018 accounts, similar to the previous years, have shown that Hungary has achieved an economic growth that could be achieved together with a reduction in the debt ratio and a low level of government deficit. If we look at the tasks of the future, then there are also some factors that I think can be agreed with opposition speakers in today's debate. One of the key issues is that it is worth continuing to reduce the sovereign debt ratio, which is in the common interest of all of us, which is what it takes to reduce the financing of public debt. It is in our common interest to take the deficit to a lower level, so I think that keeping the deficit level set out in the 2019 budget is in our common interest, as is our common interest in achieving the disciplined management of the 2020 budget. [[17.40]] It is in our common interest that wages can continue to grow, that wage catch-up that also marked the year 2018, and that, by catch-up, I mean the adjustment of the wages of those working in the Hungarian economy to the wages of those working in other EU countries. We have another task, we know the wage differences, but we also see that in Hungary wages have increased more than in most countries of Europe. This increase in wages can be achieved in the coming years if we continue to reduce the tax burden on labour. Not only does the 2018 closure show that these burdens have been reduced, but we know that from July this year the social contribution tax has decreased by 2 percentage points, and I trust that in the coming years we will also have room for a reduction in this employer's burden. If this is achieved, reducing the burden on employers can contribute to further increases in wages and, in addition, I think we should also improve productivity, i.e. the number of goods produced by a particular worker. In this respect, I can agree with Mr Attila Mesterházy, who drew attention to the fact that, in the case of state aid policy, it is important not only to see where there is unemployment, where it has required greater public support, but also that, in addition to preserving jobs, it is worth investing in productivity without creating a new job. Not only are we talking about this, but we have taken concrete measures, I am thinking about the tax rules here, or I am thinking about the document published by the government under the heading "Programme for a more competitive Hungary." We therefore have a task, but I think that the 2018 accounts confirm that we have been able to correctly define the objectives and the means for achieving these objectives and that we have been able to use the tools well. I hope that this will be no different in the coming years, and that we can solve the tasks that are undoubtedly ahead of us step by step. Thank you for your attention. With all due respect, after the general debate of the 2018 Budget Act, I would like to recommend the discussion and subsequent adoption in the detailed debate. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-24-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. After the general debate has been concluded, I would like to indicate that amendments can be tabled by 4 p.m. on Friday. No one finally applied for a post-meeting speech. Thank you for today's work. The Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. next week. Meeting day's closed.
