u2022-06-23-0	I would ask my fellow Members and the representatives of the government to take their seats. Thank you. [[It's happening.]] Good morning. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, the representatives of the government and all the colleagues who are helping us to conduct today's very long day. The 4th day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be able to help me, Mr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023 will follow. The bill is T/152. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/152/3. can be found on the website. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr Vinnai Győző to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-1	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the 13-hour timeframe available today is as follows: 266 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 124 minutes for the KDNP Group; 74 minutes for the DK Group; 59 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 59 minutes for the Momentum Group; 59 minutes for the MSZP Group; 46 minutes for the Group of Hungary; 46 minutes for the Dialogue Group; 43 minutes for the LMP Group; 4 minutes for independent Members. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day.
u2022-06-23-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The opening speech, the speech by the President and the Vice-President of the SAO and the President of the Board of Budgets, as well as the speeches by keynote speakers and representatives, took place yesterday at the beginning of the general debate. We would now like to begin the first round of speakers in writing, but before that, Mr András Tállai asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-23-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The growth momentum of the 2010s was halted by the corona virus epidemic. At the same time, the crisis caused by the epidemic hit the Hungarian economy in a much more favourable situation than during the 2008 financial crisis. The Hungarian economy was much more resilient at the beginning of 2020 and there were significant reserves in the budget, which allowed for a comprehensive crisis management programme. It represented 36 percent of GDP, the value of measures based on the preservation of jobs, the creation of new ones, the operation of companies, incentives for investment and the protection of families. The positive results quickly became visible, as the fall was below the 2020 EU transition average. In 2021, the volume of Hungarian GDP increased by 7.1 percent, which was also outstanding in the EU comparison. In terms of growth performance, we have also preceded the V4 Member States and most of the core states. The Hungarian economy has been among those countries in the last year that achieved and exceeded the economic performance before the epidemic. It is important to point out that the relative development of our country has increased further, as GDP per capita in purchasing power parities has increased from 66 per cent of the EU average in 2010 to 76 per cent in 2021, ahead of Portugal. Despite adverse circumstances, there have been record records of employment and investment in the last year, and the latest evidence shows that the results are sustainable. The growth continued in the first quarter of this year, the gross domestic product increased by 8.2 percent, with this performance Hungary is at the forefront of the EU. As a result of crisis management, the government deficit and debt-to-GDP ratio temporarily increased, but Hungary is one of the EU countries that was able to reduce their debt ratio compared to 2020. In 2021, public debt amounted to 76,8 percent of GDP and the general government deficit was 6.8 percent. Both indicators developed better than the EU average. It is regrettable that we have just dealt with the corona virus epidemic and the negative effects of the resulting crisis, and we have faced challenges once again: the Russian-Ukrainian war, which broke out in February 2022, has fundamentally changed the external environment. Supply chains have been broken, world prices for raw materials and energy have been lost and their availability has been reduced. The last few months of human disaster and social shock, which have also resulted in significant economic consequences, have been characterised by a long time-lost human disaster and social shock. The security of Hungarian citizens and the predictability of energy supply have also been appreciated. Global inflation, rising interest rates and the sovereign debt return environment have created a new situation, which has not been seen for decades due to war and international sanctions, as well as to energy policy in Brussels. In addition to increased funding, it has been assessed that countries' budgets have, as far as possible, rapid and robust response capacity and adequate resilience. The Hungarian government, as it proved during the decade preceding the epidemic, is committed to strengthening fiscal balance and further reducing the level of public debt, while preserving the sustainability of public finances. Dear House, The change in the consumer price index in May exceeded 10 percent in Hungary, but this is moderate in a regional comparison. Due to the maintenance of official prices, neither oil nor world gas prices have yet had a significant impact on household energy spending. At the same time, rising energy prices also increase production in Hungary, further reduce companies' profits and reduce investment opportunities. In other words, the injurious effect of inflation itself is tangible, which is why the government and the central bank are seeking to curb price increases. Last year, the official price of fuel and the official price of certain basic foods were introduced, which were extended until 1 October. Since December 2012, the reduction programme has been protecting households, but its importance has really been appreciated in recent months. We can see that in many Western European countries energy has already increased as a side effect of the epidemic last year, which has only been exacerbated by the drastic price increase following the war. The Hungarian government's position is firm and clear: the Hungarian population cannot be allowed to suffer the serious economic consequences of the war, which is why the price stop and the reduction of the rent were extended to protect households and small companies from the war-related prices. [[8.10]] In fact, if these prices were to prevail, i.e. the energy prices would actually be released, it would actually stop dynamic growth processes in a domino effect. Households would be forced to spend much more of their income at their disposal to settle their bills, leaving less money for consumption, investment and savings. Moreover, multiple energy prices would push many households to the brink of poverty compared to before. In contrast, the government is striving to preserve the progress made in recent years. In this difficult situation, consideration must be given to both the results achieved and the increased security of citizens. The government target for next year's budget provides a stable basis for the implementation of government programmes, guaranteeing the protection of families, strengthening the security of our country, development of forces and the preservation of overhead cuts. For this reason, the 2023 budget will be a budget for public security and defence. The Rezségvédelmi Fund ensures that households can pay an energy price lower than the unpredictablely rising market price by HUF 670 billion. This will preserve the purchasing power of households, i.e. continue to ensure economic growth supported by consumption, maintaining high employment levels and further growth in corporate investment. Public and corporate wage increases as well as a significant increase in the minimum wage ensure that real wages increase with high inflation. Households' disposable income is increased by pension compensation, 13th month's retirement, 25-year-olds' absence, benefits from the family tax system. In 2023, the combined amount of family policy expenditure and tax benefits is increased by nearly HUF 450 billion compared to this year, reaching HUF 3225 billion. In addition, the Retirement Fund will guarantee the financial security of households. In 2023, the Hungarian Defence Fund, which provides HUF 842 billion, reduces the security risks of the war conflict in the region, creates sources of defence development and strengthens the physical security of our country. All defence expenditures reach 2 percent of GDP, meeting the required level of NATO. Dear Parliament, In order to achieve economic policy priorities and meet the deficit target, the government has decided on significant revenue-enhancing and expenditure-cutting measures. The deficit target will be 4.9 percent of GDP in 2022 and 3.5 percent in 2023. 60 percent of the improvement in the balance can be linked to a reduction in expenditure, while 40 percent can be linked to an increase in revenue, so that the domestic budget process can be ensured without excessive burden increases. The moderate withdrawal requirement allows debt financing to continue to be dominated primarily by domestic resources and, on the other hand, to maintain investor confidence, which, under favourable financing conditions, contributes to keeping the budget's interest expenditures at a moderate level. In addition, developments that create new values and businesses can continue to count on the most competitive tax system in the European Union, with a corporate profit tax rate of only 9 per cent, but also a further reduction in labour taxes and contributions. The magnitude of the reduction in expenditure measures is about one and a half times higher than the increase in revenue. In particular, delaying public investment accounts for a significant proportion of expenditure cuts. In terms of GDP-related performance, Hungary is currently the first in the European Union by 27.5 percent. In recent years, the development has been largely limited by the lack of capacity in the construction sector, so that additional capacity for private sector investment is released by reducing public development, thereby strengthening growth potential. In addition, the government will do everything in its power to ensure that Hungary has access to the EU's funds as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, The unfavourable geopolitical situation, sanctions against Russia and the rise in energy and raw material prices are a major obstacle to economic growth throughout the European Union. The Hungarian government is committed to guaranteeing the safety of Hungarian citizens, predictable energy supply and prices, dynamic economic growth, high employment levels and improved living conditions. We continue to maintain the debt reduction programme, we have extended the price cap system, the credit moratorium and the interest rate stop, so the Hungarian government has actually created a safety net to prevent unpredictable international factors. As a result, this year's growth will be high, 4.7 percent. All indications point to the fact that, following the higher than expected growth of the first quarter of this year, The government's measures will continue to provide the same conditions for growth in the coming period. Dear Parliament, It also supports the use of growth opportunities that Hungary's ability to attract capital has increased considerably over recent years. The implementation of corporate development will also support economic growth in the short term and will ensure an increase in production volume in the long term by increasing capacity. Finally, the expansion of exports can be supported by the normalisation of the international environment and global supply chains. It should be noted that there were no substantial production restrictions in the Hungarian industry following the outbreak of the war. These factors can all be mitigated. Tourism seems to be recovering from month to month, and new production capacities will also lead to substantial improvements in the external equilibrium position, so that financing capacity vis-à-vis the rest of the world can gradually be restored. Dear House, Overall, next year there will be 4.1 percent economic growth, which is expected to once again exceed the EU average, so Hungary's relative development can further improve in the European comparison. Continued improvement in steady-state indicators can be predicted. Public deficit-to-GDP, debt ratio and external balance indicators can also significantly improve over the coming period, which will further strengthen the country's fiscal balance, stability and security. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of proposing amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Congressman János Halász, please.
u2022-06-23-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In recent years, there have been huge changes in the world. It has now become clear that the decade ahead will bring us an age of danger, a pandemic, a migration, an armed conflict, an energy crisis will be present in our lives at the same time. At the 3 April elections, the Hungarian people made a clear decision to expect Hungary to be protected against the dangers. [[8.20]] This is also one of the most important aspects of the 2023 budget, which can only be accepted if it provides the necessary resources for the protection of the country. Next year's budget will be a budget for public and defence, so it will also provide the necessary resources for the protection of the country, as appropriate. The Rezségvédelmi Fund will be charged with HUF 670 billion, and the Hungarian Defence Fund will consist of HUF 842 billion. We also maintain the country's security, the results of recent years, the reduction of the rent, family support and the value of pensions in an uncertain global economy. Reading the chapters of the draft budget submitted to the Parliament, which we have just discussed, we can say that it contains all the costs necessary to ensure the protection of Hungarian people. As Vice-President of the National Security Committee, I would like to talk more about the support of the Secret Service next year. It may not be necessary to specify how much the work of national security services will be valued during a period of war full of threats and threats. It is vital that military and civilian intelligence can provide accurate, up-to-date information for decisions to be taken to protect our national sovereignty. The safety of the Hungarian people also depends on the work of the counters. Today, tens of thousands of refugees come from our neighbor, more than 800 thousand people have arrived since the Russian-Ukrainian war, mainly from Ukraine. It is necessary to be prepared that some terrorist groups or anti-interested services are trying to use this flood of refugees to get their people into Hungary. The establishment of a new governance structure has served to strengthen national security services and make their activities more effective. We can remember that civil national security services were under the control of the Ministry of Home Affairs in 2010. This was necessary in 2010 because at that time the most important challenge was to restore public security, because we literally inherited criminal conditions after the Gyurcsány-Bajnai cabins, and this was very dramatically reflected in the crime indicators at that time. There was a need not only for legislation but also for effective, effective and coordinated action. This is why we decided that, as opposed to earlier, in 2010, the supervision and coordination of civil national security services will also go to the Ministry of Home Affairs, and that the important part of their task will be to help combat law enforcement and crime. The civil security services, together with the police, have solved this task in the last 12 years. Today Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe, and Budapest is perhaps the safest capital of Europe. But now we are facing a new period, this decade will be a war decade. The first and most important challenge is war and all its side effects, war not only poses a threat to physical security, but also material security and energy security. So at the same time a war in our neighbourhood threatens the physical security of Hungarian people, the country's energy security and the financial security of people. It follows that the entire government structure must be set up in such a way that these aspects are in the first place. This applies, of course, to the tasks of national security services. Therefore, with the exception of the Military National Security Service, which has its natural place under the control of the Ministry of Defence, the civilian services will be controlled by the Prime Minister's Cabinet. Thus, the government drew them closer to the government centre than to perform their duties, in fact involving them in it. It will help to better control the joint supervision of the Information Office, the Constitutional Protection Office, the National Security Service. As a successor to the Counter-Terrorism and Crime Analysis Centre, the National Information Centre has been established, whose functions are significantly higher than those of your predecessor TIBEK. In this context, the NIK will carry out a wider range of tasks and coordination, and it will also be able to involve professionals who have gained experience in the field of energy security in addition to national security expertise in recent years. Of course, significant resources are also needed to convert, expand the stock and increase its reputation. As a first step, the entire secret service professional staff received the six-month arms money in February this year, and the 2023 budget gives additional resources to the field. The Constitutional Protection Office will be able to manage more than HUF 630.8 million in the budget of 2022 next year according to the draft, so the Office will be able to manage from more than HUF 13 billion. National Security Services will receive almost HUF 2 billion more, personal benefits may increase by 1.3 billion and other operating expenses by HUF 674 million. The Information Office will be able to spend HUF 810 million more on personal benefits. The support of the Military National Security Service will increase by 41 percent, which means more than HUF 13 billion, so the organization's budget will exceed HUF 45 billion in 2023. The National Information Centre can manage more than HUF 4 billion next year under the proposal, which exceeds your predecessor's budget by 12%. Overall, the support of national security services will increase by HUF 16 billion in 2023. For the first time, the budget of the secret services will exceed HUF 100 billion. Budget support for military and civilian services in 2023 creates a financial background for defending Hungary's national sovereignty despite increasing threats. On several occasions, I was convinced that the professional staff in the national security services consists of people who love, are committed, and are expert in their country, who people can count on. I would like to thank you for your sacrifice, and national security services can count on the support of the Fidesz faction, just as the government can count on it. The draft budget law of 2023, which we are discussing now, is a budget for public health and defence, and we will also preserve the support of families, the value of pensions and jobs, and increase the support of national security services will ensure that our national sovereignty is preserved. That is why we are in favour of the draft budget law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-23-6	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I envy the Secretary of State and the Member who, early in the morning, were able to put their souls in such a pink optimistic state and made us happy with wonderful victory reports. The problem is, unfortunately, these things have nothing to do with reality. [[János Halász: Yes, there is!]] It has nothing to do with the reality where prices are rising, where it is increasingly difficult for pensioners to live, where they cannot come out of a decent job, or the salary of a man working three shifts, where families with children have to worry. Unfortunately, this budget does not improve, but makes this situation worse. As much as they deny it, Viktor Orbán's budget for 2023 is austerity, a budget for the brutal Orbán package, which takes more money out of the pockets of the Hungarian people than ever before and leaves more than the fidesz oligarchs. Next year's budget proves what we knew and indicated before the April elections: the Orbán government is preparing for austerity, they pass on the consequences of their failed economic policy and foreign policy to Hungarian citizens through unprecedented, brutal tax increases. I'd love to talk about at least investing in the future, at least thinking about how to make future generations' lives liveable and bearable. I'd love to talk about the fact that they're doing everything they can to make our environment, our life better, but unfortunately, they're not. In the 2023 budget, in the budget for austerity, you will not make any significant progress in any matters relating to sustainability, the environment and climate protection. They spend another HUF 150 billion on Paks, for example, on a failed nuclear power plant project that we know has no chance of being built on the one hand because of international sanctions, and on the other hand we have just found out that it is doubtful that it will ever be allowed, simply because, contrary to the warnings of the profession, the nuclear power plant project has been set up in an area that is not suitable for the construction of the nuclear power plant. [[8.30]] If you'd listened to the profession, you'd only have to move the location of the planned power plant a few hundred meters away. That wouldn't make it a good investment, of course, but at least there wouldn't be a physical sinking of the power plant. On the other hand, it is not important for you to switch to renewables, for example, it is not important for you that people can create solar panels and wind wheels at home, so that a significant part of Hungarian households can become energy producers. It seems that in terms of renewables, they see only the big business, and some privileged oligarchs are given money to build solar power plants and huge solar power plants. I would add that they will not be able to serve the minimum need to have a chance to separate from fossil energy, to have a chance to get rid of the Russian gas and oil dependency that strangled Hungary in a strategic, national political sense. For example, there is no delegation of resources in large cities to introduce and develop electric vehicles, and to improve fixed-track transport. Instead, what do you have money for in this budget? There is money to build a Chinese railway and a railway that costs 1.4 billion forints a kilometer, 1400 million forints, and according to the latest calculations it will pay off in 975 years. I'd like to tell you to put your private money into such investments, not public money. It is clear that it is only about who owns a pebble mine, whose basalt mine, and good business to build. I'd say it's a wheelbarrow, but it's not the size of a wheelbarrow, it's the magnitude of a gigadomper for different friends, relatives, friends and business partners. One of my greatest pains, and I have been searching for this in this budget for a long time, is what you are planning to do in order to achieve Hungary's most important climate protection and energy saving project. Do you know what this is? Continuation of the panel program, energy insulation of residential houses. In Hungary, we burn many tons of oil and mainly many cubic meters of natural gas to heat the street, because the housing houses are not effective, they were built at a time when, like today, they thought that cheap Russian energy, cheap Russian gas or Soviet gas, would last forever and will always be available. But instead of continuing the panel program that was launched in large numbers during the Gyurcsány government in large numbers and which is a very popular and very successful programme, and which could lead to a very significant savings in the country's energy balance, experts estimate that 10-15 percent of the country's total energy consumption could be achieved with an extensive house renovation programme, not only should it be extended to residential housing, but also from other sources to public institutions, so an energy renovation programme could save 10-15 percent of the total energy use. This is a social issue, since it would mean that the reduction in the overhead is achieved by using less energy for the same standard of living and for the same living. You're misinterpreting this or you're misinterpreting this on purpose. The aim is not to make people's lives worse, and the goal is to improve their quality of life, but this can be achieved with less energy use today. It should be invested to this end. That is why I say that this is not just about improving the quality of life of people, and it is not only about significantly reducing the emissions of gases that cause climate change in Hungary, but it would also mean increasing the country's energy independence, because without renewables and energy modernisation there is no energy independence, and in the long term it would also be a returnable and important investment in economic terms. Therefore, we propose to set 60 billion HUF in the budget for the continuation of the panel program. I would add that this is only necessary for the self-reliance of all Hungarian citizens, not only in the panels, but also in old-built condominiums, because it could be used for this, my fellow Members. If the government is looking for ways to finally put a plan on EU funds that will be supported, which will meet the EU's objectives, I strongly suggest that this energy renovation element, the panel programme and the house renovation energy modernisation programme should be placed at the heart of this programme. I am sure that such a programme will also meet the EU's ideas and goals. I would add, of course, that does require state guarantees that this money is actually being spent on this and not on the pockets of the oligarchs. I must also say that we also consider it very important to reduce urban air pollution. This is why we are proposing an amendment in order to increase the support for public transport, which is to ensure that public transport remains significantly sustainable and that there is a source for vehicle exchange, for the purchase of new low-floor trams, trolleybuses or electric buses not only in the capital but also in other major cities with community transport. I would also like to talk briefly about the affairs of my own constituency, because everything I have said in large, national, true place, in Kőbánya and Kispesten. There, too, our problems are similar to those I have just mentioned. For example, it is important and important to have a source for modernising railway stations in Kőbánya and Kispest. Kőbánya-Kispest is one of the largest railway stations in the country, but it is in an almost unbearable state. You have been promising to renovate this for years, nothing is actually happening, but the situation is similar with Kőbánya lower station and Kispest train station. It is important that the Cultural Center of Kőrös, its maiden name Pataky is also a source of renovation. This is an iconic building that does not meet today's expectations in any energy or other way. We've got to sort out Mázsa tér. The government promised us an investment that hadn't been made, but the pit stayed in its place. There is also a need to address the issue of the market in Kipest and the swimming pool in Kipest. These are all matters that are important to the people of Kőbánya and Kispest, which serve sustainability, climate neutrality, greener Stone and Kispest. We therefore submit amendments to these proposals, and I look forward to the support of the government and the government representatives, as they represent Budapest, Kőbány, Kispest, the country as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-8	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Vice-President János Latorcai. Mr. Vice President, please.
u2022-06-23-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The budget of 2022, as we have heard from the Deputy Minister of State, Mr András Tállai, in his small expose this morning, was designed by the government to reboot the economy and life of our country, and we can all be among the winners of the new world economy era after the epidemic in Hungary. It is now a fact that the measures taken last year to restart the economy have been successful. The government has placed emphasis on stimulating investment, increasing employment and reducing purchasing power. However, the main evidence of success is that employment, which ultimately affects the lives of all families and affects all their lives, has reached and even exceeded the level before the crisis. We were looking forward to an economically stable and safe year, but unfortunately, the war that broke out next door overrides all of this. The representatives of the KDNP, who so far spoke in the debate, analysed and evaluated the budget proposal for 2023 taking into account a number of aspects, including the Russian-Ukrainian war and its impact on the European Union, as well as the sanctions adopted by the European Union and the problems specific to global supply chains. [[8.40]] I no longer wish to discuss all the very thorough analyses that they have explained, and in my speech I would like to focus on both stability and dynamism in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, The most important achievements of the budget proposal are the Rehabilitation Fund with HUF 670 billion and the Hungarian Defence Fund with a budget of HUF 842 billion. The aim of the former is to guarantee the security of the population by ensuring low energy prices and to promote the competitiveness of micro-enterprises, and the latter is to deliver on the government's commitment to NATO by the end of 2023 to increase defence spending. The budget was also earmarked for the provision of nearly 180 billion for the guarantee of the two dedicated funds and for the additional extraordinary government measures of 170 billion forints. Together, they ensure that the stability and dynamism needed for predictable public management can be achieved in a rapidly changing world and in an economic environment. In terms of stability, it is vital that measures to support and support families' lives are maintained in spite of the deteriorating international environment, while curbing energy prices and maintaining the cost reduction. Next year there will be some HUF 450 billion more in this area, so the available budget will exceed HUF 3200 billion, thus continuing to spend the most of our country's resources on family support in the European Union. As a result, among other things, the benefit of people under the age of 25, the institution of the baby shower loan, the system of family taxation and support for home creation, as well as the regulation of women's 40, which allows them to retire at a reduced rate. Speaking of which, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important to point out that the 13th month pension will be maintained, as we have heard in the ministerial exposé, and that many other government revelations have included, as this year, the government is also determined to ensure, if necessary, a supplementary pension increase next year in order to maintain the purchasing power of pensions. This is therefore stability, ladies and gentlemen, but, as I said, flexibility and dynamism are at least as important. The 4.1 percent economic growth indicated in the bill, as the Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State, has repeatedly underlined today, especially if we add that exports and imports are expected to increase by 5.5 percent and 5.5 percent next year. In an international environment with extreme problems, it is particularly important that resources for economic recovery can be used with sufficient efficiency and focus. That is why I consider the announcement made by Minister Palkovic a few days ago that in the coming years our country will make energy investments of some EUR 15.8 billion. These investments are extremely necessary, as the Russian-Ukrainian war has made energy scarce and expensive at international level, while the energy demand of the domestic economy has increased, so Hungary's energy sovereignty is in a new situation. There is a need to increase energy efficiency, to develop and expand the electricity grid. In this context, the expansion of solar systems is also essential, but a number of solutions should be introduced to the problem of energy storage. The conditions for applying them in practice must be found. The promotion of investment is therefore not only an economic objective but also a nation strategy goal. At the same time, this should not lead to the release of the deficit and to a defaulting government debt. The budget planning had a significant focus on these objectives, so it is expected that next year the deficit will be kept around 3.5 percent, while the government debt rate will also fall below 74 percent, thus fulfilling the constitutional obligation to reduce the sovereign debt indicator. Of course, it is essential to keep inflation in check and to break it down. In this respect, the government will take the necessary steps, but the fragmentation of global supply chains since Covid and the Russian-Ukrainian war, which drastically strengthens the already existing shortage of goods, can in many cases go beyond their capacity to act, and this will, in any case, require serious attention. Ladies and gentlemen, The challenges we have experienced in recent years have led us to improve our responsiveness, so the Ministry of Finance has already been prepared to meet the challenges of our time in planning the budget for 2023. This is confirmed by the opinion delivered by the State Audit Office, which underlines that the central reserves provide sufficient resources to address expenditure risks for exceptional measures and compensation tasks related to investment preparation, epidemiological and energy price increases. Ladies and gentlemen, From this, it can be seen that the government, in the planning of the budget, has understood the main challenges of the period ahead, and it is crucial that the Russian-Ukrainian war and the Brussels sanctioned energy policy make it the most important task now to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect its debt reduction. The KDNP Group believes that, despite the obstacles mentioned in my introduction and just partially confirmed, the government has prepared a budget that can be met, which it finds worthy of support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I give the floor to János Bencze, from the Group of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-11	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, When I became a Member, I decided to bring the Hungarian rural reality into Parliament. It is strictly related to the budget because, as you can see, you are walking the countryside in the same way, I very much hope, from all the benches, we can see that the settlements of Hungary are becoming less and less flowery, less and less beautiful, and a strange solution has appeared in the settlements that certain weeds are being appointed as a beekeeper. As a beekeeper, that's not the answer. I ask the mayors, I go to my county, I go to the country, and I get one opinion from everywhere: there is no man for settlement maintenance, there is no man to do the job, and so the settlements will not be nice, and there are more and more problems. The city leaders asked me to suggest that there should be a line in the budget, or even an extension line, sub-series, that . In fact, when the unemployment rate was high in Hungary, there was an idea to do this work with the help of those involved in the public work programme. This has happened a long time ago, since then, people are getting older, and as mayors and notaries say, and in my own experience, people are running out of community service. Some of them retired, survived this last period until they reached retirement age. It was a age group, the current 70-year-olds who had job skills, life experience and professional skills. They were able to perform professionally a mow, an incision, a trench-cleaning, and as time went on, more and more problematic people would enter the community service program. You can't let go of their hands. [[8.50]] But people with drug problems, people with alcohol problems, people who don't have any skills, they show up. A generation who doesn't know the hoof, doesn't know the scythe, sort of solve it. Plus, the numbers are down. There is a settlement in Hungary in my environment where there is only one public worker, with them it should be resolved from the scarce resources of the local government, stressing the maintenance of the settlement, which makes a settlement viable and safe. The other, which is a problem, I also talk to public workers, I recommend it to you, and I recommend it to everyone, what we call public wages, is the minimum amount that is a few tens of thousands of forints, and I feel that this is why decent work cannot be expected. That is why it is proposed to put a line in our budget that is a settlement maintenance. We've assessed it among the mayors, and I'm going to put the proposal on the table so that it can be done numerically. I ask you to support the maintenance, safety and beauty of the Hungarian settlements. And as promised, I come with reality. I promised my fellow beekeepers that I would bring the problems, problems and suggestions of beekeeping to the walls and present them to honourable Members. Metaphorically speaking, I'm bringing the bees into Parliament, but seeing the exciting arguments here, sometimes it wouldn't hurt to bring them in physically, maybe speed things up a little bit. But beekeeping isn't a joke, and bees aren't jokes, and the joke aside, seriously, you hear a lot about pollinators. There are many reasons why there are problems with pollinators. Once the highly over-mixed agriculture, but the statistics show it, professionals, and this is party-independent, the pollinating insect world, especially the majority of the wild people, has disappeared, has dropped to a fraction of 10-20 percent, and currently pollination is provided by my fellow beekeepers with the help of their bees, and here the first problems arise. There were several problems in the beekeeper society, which was also brought about by life. Those very knowledgeable colleagues who do it with a heart and a heart and a love, and, by the way, in order to make a profit, have grown old. Beekeeper society works with a lot of colleagues who are 70 plus. They would give this knowledge to young people, but there was a factor that we've been hearing about for years, but somehow we didn't take it seriously, this is climate change. The hectic weather caused by climate change, the spring frosts, the drought that is currently raging in the Great Plain, for example, has already clearly destroyed the sunflower crop in Békés County, making it not worthwhile for the beekeeper to migrate to sunflowers, so he will not do the pollination work. There is no fool who, at his own expense, carries bee hives to a droughty, wasted area, to solve this problem by doing almost charitable work, and to profit secondaryly for Hungarian agriculture. I would ask my fellow Members to think very carefully about their support when the proposal comes in, because pollination work should be valued financially, and should not be, because if there will be no driving force in the beekeeper society, no one will keep this large number of bee families, which in Hungary today will pollinate the full blooming cultures. Young people will have no interest, and there will be no reinforcements, I say from experience. So I ask you to support this proposal, too, because without it, Hungarian agriculture will be in an even more disastrous situation. Last but not least, there is a problem in Hungary that affects a lot of settlements, a lot of counties. I am very pleased that in the two-thirds majority of the governing majority, there was a proposal to deal with the counties, the name of the county was born, and I can tell you that many counties were literally caught off guard. So there are other unexpected events that affect counties, they would also refer back to the extreme weather situation, disaster at any time, wash away a municipal drainage from the water, a house, a coastal wall, a road. This has happened recently in Tolna County in the region of Tolna. I saw my fellow Member go out and look at the scene, but right now, either a county representative or a county assembly member, a Member of Parliament can do much more than that. We start a process, force majeure event, everyone knows how it works, start the office's mills nice and slow to grind, the problem stands up, the process runs through, the decision is made, and the error is corrected. I will propose this in the budget, and my experience with the county representatives will tell me to create it, to create it, I do not know how to say it exactly for the counties, for the county counties, a force majeure basis. So let's fill the county treasure chest next to the name of the county, because the presidents and representatives of the county assemblies know their own county very well. It's a policy-independent proposal. Everyone knows that county assemblies are pro-government. This would be good for everyone, because a county can react very quickly, a county assembly president who lives in the county, a vice-president, a representative who knows the venue well, can make a quick decision on the use of force majeure by calling a quick assembly. Instead of weeks, months, we could solve small problems with such a budget in hours or days, which would be a huge help for both the people in the counties and the people in the settlements. So I would ask the honourable Members to support this proposal, if possible and they see fit. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-23-12	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Erik Bánki, from Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, After the corona virus epidemic, the Hungarian economy maintained its performance, and it was also one of the top riders of the European Union, among the countries that were able to get out of the crisis the fastest, and which produced the greatest growth in 2021. Hungary has reached a record with the economic growth of 2021, as we have produced a 7.1 percent increase, which, I think, has brought great satisfaction and recognition at international level. Thanks to the government's decisions, the economy continued to grow again this year, as the Hungarian economy showed an increase of over 8 percent in the first quarter. This is important, ladies and gentlemen, because, in the current uncertain situation, as a result of the changes caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, we are faced with a global economic crisis under the pressure of war inflation, where it is very important to see the basis on which the Hungarian economy starts, the state of the Hungarian budget. As a result of the successful economic protection and economic recovery programme, we have managed to protect jobs in Hungary, so unlike many countries, as I said, economic life in Hungary has started again significantly faster. The Government of Hungary, as it has agreed, will also protect jobs, pensions, families and the reduction of overhead in a prolonged war situation. The resources for this are provided in every respect by budget 2023, which lies before you. In the following year, the 13th month pension will remain, family allowances will continue and pensions will continue to rise according to inflation. Due to the Russian-Ukrainian war and the misguided Brussels sanctions policy, the most important thing now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction. In light of these facts, ladies and gentlemen, listening to yesterday's debate day is more than surprising, as some of my opposition fellow Members have said about the draft budget and the government's recent work. Therefore, it is worth recalling how left-wing crisis management in Hungary worked. I think we all agree that the left has already failed from crisis management once, because by 2010, Hungary has been plunged into a debt crisis and, in practice, insolvency has been avoided only because the IMF has helped the left-wing Hungarian government with credit. Let's see what the recipe for left-wing crisis management was. The 13th month pension was abolished; the duration of the child was reduced; the general rate of VAT was increased by 5 percentage points; the family allowance was included in the tax; the retirement age was increased; the pensionable pension was reduced; a month's wage was taken from the public sector workers; they wanted to introduce property taxes; they did not have time to do so, because the change of government took away this opportunity; and, as I mentioned, they also charged Hungary's debt with an unconsciously large loan, a loan from the IMF. [[9.00]] Dear House, Since the national governance, Hungary has made a turn, we have set the economy on a growth path, and we have preserved this despite the epidemic. Thanks to government measures and the economic recovery after the coronal epidemic, as I have just mentioned to you, growth has reached a record last year, and this growth has continued at the beginning of this year. In 2023, the budget expects a 4.1 per cent economic expansion, which, I think, is a very ambitious target in the current situation, but I think that the processes that the government has launched will ensure that this growth and growth above 4 per cent can be maintained in the next year. Between 2014 and 2019 Hungary has already demonstrated its ability to continuously expand above the average of the European Union, not to any extent, since between 2014 and 2019 the average annual economic growth was 4.1 percent, while the EU growth average was 2.1 percent, i.e. we were able to double the performance of the Hungarian economy compared to the average of the European Union. We think that this will be of particular importance now, because the recovery after the crisis offers Hungary an opportunity that if we can expand again above the European Union's average, let us say twice that, we will speed up the process of catching up Hungary to the standard of living in Western Europe. We believe that, based on the current decisions of the government and the economic development strategy for the next period, we can achieve by 2030 that Hungary will be one of the five most advanced and successful countries in the 27 Member States of the European Union. Since 2010, we have not only stabilised the country economically but also financially, balanced the budget and the government debt on a declining path. Ladies and Gentlemen, The budget of 2023 calculates the level of public debt, calculates a deficit of 3.5 per cent of GDP, and there are perhaps four or five of the EU countries outside of us that are able to reduce their debt in this situation, preparing for a disciplined and predictable budget management that will enable debt to be reduced. In recent years, leaving the Covid crisis, all the countries of Europe have been forced to calculate the cost of re-launching the economy by increasing public debt. Now, in this situation, as I say, the Hungarian Government decided with a very determined decision and a decisive step the following year to reduce public debt, while, for example, the southern states, despite their being well above the government debt-to-GDP ratio of 100 per cent, remain on the path of indebtedness, they are unable to make a turn that the Hungarian government's budget proposal for next year has done. The budget provides a predictable and predictable basis for maintaining stability in the country and maintaining economic growth. The budget also prioritises support for Hungarian families, childbearing and child rearing in these extraordinary times. Next year, we will ensure that Europe remains one of the most favourable 15 percent personal income tax levels, as well as the tax benefits of the family tax system, the personal income tax exemption for parents with at least four children, which is special and uniccumbent in the European Union, will remain, we will continue to pay the 13th month's pension next year after the 13th month's pension has been reinstated, as well as the personal income tax exemption for people under the age of 25 will be maintained, which will make it much easier for young people to start their careers, and their standard of living has also increased significantly thanks to this decision of the government. The combined amount of family policy spending and tax relief increases by HUF 450 billion compared to this year, thus reaching HUF 3225 billion next year. It is therefore Hungary, in proportion to its GDP, that spends the largest amount of money on supporting families in the EU Member States. We believe that the solution that can stop the decline of the population in Hungary is not to support migration, but to support and promote childbearing. The budget will also cover the increase in wages in the public sector in recent years, as well as the new rate of increase in medical wages launched in 2021. In addition to the disciplined fiscal policy, the already launched, economically and socially significant municipal investments will continue to give the Hungarian economy the momentum that, as I said to you, Hungary could rise to the five most successful states in the European Union by 2030. Our aim is to ensure that the standard of living of Hungarian citizens remains above average. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the priority areas of the 2023 budget is security, which can be seen from a significant increase in the amount available for defence. More resources will be available in 2023 by more than 50 percent in a year, i.e. some 460 billion forints. This means that defence spending increases more than six times compared to 2010 to HUF 1375 billion. Law enforcement spending is also higher than HUF 965 billion next year, which represents an additional HUF 500 billion increase compared to 2010. Why police and defence are important, my fellow Members: not only because the war in our neighbourhood inspires us to do so, but also because, unfortunately, the economic crisis will also have a very serious food crisis, a food shortage in the world that unfortunately will strengthen migration. Italy is preparing to launch tens of millions of people from Africa in the next period, because there will be insufficient food, they will not be able to feed their families. If we are not prepared, as after 2015, we can only rely on ourselves here, then we cannot defend Hungary's borders in the coming years. Compared to this year, more than HUF 300 billion will be paid to the public sector next year. For health purposes, HUF 2670 billion will be available next year. This is more than HUF 1470 billion higher than what the left was planning to secure in his last budget in 2010. Speaking of health care, ladies and gentlemen, there have also been a lot of attacks on the government in recent years. I think that we can all be proud of the pay-raise programme that we have launched in the past, since since 2010 budget support for healthcare workers has increased fourfold. Perhaps to the greatest extent the doctor's wages have increased, thanks to the program that the government started two years ago, we have now come to the conclusion that a doctor with 40 years of work can earn nearly HUF 2.5 million instead of his previous salary of nearly HUF 500,000. I think that this is necessary, because this is how we can keep a very well-trained, very good medical layer in Hungary, and we have been able to make as few of the young graduates as possible think that they can make more money in Western Europe than in Hungary, so they do not move, but they do work at home and they undertake to cure Hungarian people at home. Based on the medical wage increase programme launched in 2021, by 2023, as I have mentioned to you, doctors themselves can expect an additional significant increase in health care workers. The left-wing governments have taken 650 billion forints from this area, one in eight, or 16 thousand active beds have been removed, six thousand medical workers have been dismissed, and a month's wages have been taken from them. [[9.10]] Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the criticism of the Hungarian government's budget in recent days is not necessarily honest. Dear House, Last thing I want to say is about education expenditure. Education expenditure is over HUF 2378 billion next year, which represents an increase of more than HUF 930 billion compared to 2010. Model-shifting institutions, which no longer count as state universities, are not the total expenditure, but only the support from the central budget is shown in the budget figures either, when the opposition criticized funds for higher education during yesterday's debate, so not only the HUF 100 billion increase and increase they see in the budget, my fellow Members, but they can calculate an additional HUF 100 billion with a source of revenue resulting from the asset relief made during the transformation. So higher education institutions can expect a surplus of HUF 100 billion instead of HUF 200 billion, and I think that a quality university education that we talked about a lot about in the coming years in Hungary, but which was not a realistic basis, since these universities did not have the possibility of managing the expectations they had for them. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore think that the draft budget for 2023, which lies before you, will bring in all respects positive changes for all social groups that we can all be proud of. I ask you to support the adoption of this draft budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-14	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Szabolcs Szabó, on behalf of the Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have every right to say about the budget, and I do not think that there is even a debate between us that the current budget reflects the social policy and economic policy of the current government and the governing majority. And then the debate begins with who judges this as the right direction, who considers it less right, and recommends something else instead. We consider that the kind of worldview or the kind of image that the pro-government majority and executive power thinks of the country, and what this budget reflects is not good, we think there is a much better direction. Obviously, this is what the debate has been about for more than a day now, we are here on the second day of the debate, and I would add some of my own ideas to that. I would like to make a few points at the beginning of my comment, and that is what I would like to express better in my comment. On the one hand, I have the claim that this is not a budget for the future; I have a statement that this budget is not a budget for the good responses to the livelihood crisis; and I have a statement as a representative of Csepel and Soroksár that this is not a budget for the people of Csepel and Soroksár. Then let's go through these three statements. Why do I say it's not a budget for the future? Again, I do not think there is a debate between us that the future of the country depends essentially on education, with which Erik Bánki finished his previous comment. What we see from this budget is that it does not address the most fundamental problem of the Hungarian education system. That is the case, and I do not think it is possible to argue that there is a huge wage crisis. This affects very strongly the part of public education in education, and we can, as a matter of course, treat this by extending it, and we can also include the wages of daycare workers and workers in kindergartens, and it also affects higher education institutions that remain in state reserve. In each case, wages are extremely low, so if the wages of colleagues working here are compared to the gross national average salary, we are experiencing a significant decline. For example, if we were to raise the wages of teachers in public education by 50 percent right now, so I say, immediately and by 50 percent, we wouldn't be able to reach the national average salary, we would be somewhere around 90 percent on average. Why is that a problem? I think we all experience this, who are sitting in this room, or we are Members of this country, that there is a very significant shortage of teachers. They try to hide this in all sorts of ways, but it is a fact that many specialist teachers are not filled, it is either solved by mobile teachers, and even this is the best solution, although it is not good in pedagogical terms, or, unfortunately, in most cases, with permanent replacements, other teachers in specialized schools, in many cases teachers from completely different disciplines hold the classes. There's a county where, let's say, a significant part of the chemistry teaching posts are not filled. There are counties where 40 percent of high school students are not locally employed chemistry teachers, and these problems could be classified for a long time. Obviously, we can talk about long-term solutions here, but we're talking about the budget. I said this at the ministerial hearing, and since the interpellation, the position of the profession in this field is quite clear: in the short term, one thing can only be done very quickly, we must try to involve in the education system teachers who already have pedagogical degrees, but do not work in their profession. One way to do this is to say that the sine qua non of this problem provision, so such a marginal condition, it is essential to raise immediately wages. Because if we give a beginner educator just over 200 thousand forints net, while, say, he goes to a grocery store and, as a beginner, he gets one and a half times that basically, when he goes into the store to buy, he finds that prices are rising every day and he can't buy anything from his salary, then of course, he won't be able to get a job in the schools, and he'll be working there, and let's say, raising children, and he'll be looking for another job. So unfortunately, there is no other solution. This budget doesn't answer that. For example, in order to achieve this 50-percent wage increase, we would need approximately 250 billion forints according to our calculations, which, of course, is not covered by the enlargement that is in the budget. As we calculate, if the expected inflation is taken into account, this will provide an optional wage increase of up to 10 per cent next year. That's a long way from 50 percent, and I'd just like to point out that still, the teacher's wages will be way behind the average, at best, 60 percent on average. Therefore, my claim is that this is not a budget for the future. We have tabled an amendment proposal to give this amount of 250 billion to raise the wages of teachers, plus 15 billion to those higher education institutions that still have six, five universities and one college that are still in state reserve, so that we can increase the wages of colleagues working there, because the big situation is, I don't know how well they are aware that the higher education institutions that have been given to trust foundations have given a large amount of public money to raise the salaries of those working there, while the universities that remain in state reserve have not made such an increase. That's why, for example, there's more than one and a half times the salary of an assistant professor at a university in Szeged, like an assistant in ELTE, which, let's face it, is not okay. And I'm telling you, it's funded by the state, not the maintenance foundation. That is why we have tabled a future-protecting fund to address these two problems. My second statement was that this budget was not a budget for the correct response to the livelihood crisis. I think, and that's very clear from the numbers, it's the tax increases, the budget of debt figures and the budget of the people in debt. [[9.20]] If we look at the amount of the most important taxes, which are paid by the general public, the income on excise duty increases to 1,500 billion, the revenue on personal income tax increases to 4,000 billion, the total VAT revenue increases to 7,000 billion, and we are talking about huge increases. So it is clear that we residents are going to pay for the purchase of goods or services so that this budget remains somewhat integrated. Of course, you guys always say that, but they just introduced the extra pro. It's just that it's interesting that we're not actually taxing extra profit. So when we, say, raise a public health product tax, we're gonna pay for it, people, when we go in and buy soda at the store. If we raise excise duty, we will pay for it when we buy a product subject to excise duty. When an additional tax is charged to pharmaceutical manufacturers and importers, we will pay it because it is determined on the basis of turnover and I can list it in length. In these cases, the pre-tax result is not the basis for this extra tax burden. From now on, it's not an extra profit, it's going to be burdened back to the residents, we're starting to experience this anyway, everyone can look at their own accounts slowly, and the news that their provider has already told us in advance about how they're going to raise prices. There is only one element in this whole package, by the way, which, in a technical sense, taxes extra profit, is the extra tax or income imposed on MOL, because it is very cheap to obtain Russian oil at the moment by MOL, and it is very expensive to sell it, and it has an extra income, which is what the state is now financing for the 480 fuel price. That's gonna be a big question next year, 'cause the state's gonna take that away with an extra tax. To sum up, this is not a budget for the correct response to the livelihood crisis, but a budget for framing people. And the third thing I mentioned was that this is not a budget for the people of Csepel and Soroks. It is clear that Budapest will suffer next year's budget. The system remains that we are at the point of stealing the electricity from the waste from Budapest. So what we produce as waste in Budapest, a large part of it is burned in an incineration plant, generated by an income, and then taken by the state and distracted. They're even stealing our trash. By the way, the street lighting could be provided in Budapest. They say it's good, but they're gonna cancel the business tax withdrawal next year. Of course, in return, the solidarity contribution will be raised just as much, and then we did not even count on inflation. And that's why the capital doesn't have money for anything, and so we can't make a lot of investments in Csepel and Soroksár. Therefore, I have tabled amendments within the framework of our Budapest 2.0 fund that would address the most important local problems. For example, the launch of the development of the ridge path in Csepel, the II. The development and renovation of Rákóczi Ferenc út or Csepeli road should be initiated, I have tabled a modification for this, in Soroksár for the dredging of appearance, or, for example, again in Soroksár, for the construction of the railway underpass. If these do not happen, unfortunately, we will also be in a very bad situation next year, so if nothing else, at least I ask you to support them. Overall, I can only reiterate that this budget is not the future budget, not the budget for the correct response to the livelihood crisis, and not the budget of Csepel and Soroksár. And I understand the communication tasks, I understand how you're trying to distract them, I mean, distract people from this, and this county-and-ispanese story looks really good because a lot of people have been talking about it for the last day, but in reality, that's the point I've just been talking about. The important thing is not how to call people in certain positions, how to name a territorial administrative unit, but what is in the budget, and, in fact, the facts and figures are unfortunately stubborn things, and that only comes out of it, reading what I have just brought up here. So if nothing else, I ask that at least our amending proposals be adopted and voted in favour. Thank you very much. [[Ferenc Gelencér applauds.]]
u2022-06-23-16	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Hajnalka Juhász, a group of KDNPs. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is no question that the planning of the 2023 budget has reached our country in a challenging international environment. We have just recovered from the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, when the era of energy prices has begun, and the consequences of the Russian-Ukrainian war are putting countries at an extraordinary test worldwide. The effects of all these external events are also reflected in the draft budget submitted by the Government, which, as has been said several times in the House, is the budget for public security and defence. It is important to stress that the Hungarian government is doing everything it can to ensure that the price of war and Brussels sanctions policy is not paid by Hungarian families while protecting the results of recent years. A number of successes have been reported in the past period, and even the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic have not been able to bring to an end, as thanks to the conscious economic policy of recent years, which aims to strengthen the work-based society, Hungary's economy has been hit by a stable state of the virus, which has led Hungary to a much better start-up and economic life much stronger. GDP grew at a historical record rate of 7.1 percent over the previous year. On the contrary, today we have to face the fact that there is a war in a neighbouring country. As a result of the war and the energy policy in Brussels, inflationary pressures have increased and we are experiencing an unprecedented increase in energy prices. During the course of the XXI. We are facing the greatest geopolitical reorganization of the century, a global energy and food crisis. This would be added by the Brussels policy with the introduction of a minimum global tax, which, in this difficult situation, would mean a serious tax increase for companies and increase the burden on businesses. Central European countries, including our country, have pursued a responsible and balanced fiscal policy, so we have been able to keep low tax rates on work and companies. This proposal, on the other hand, would cause the greatest harm in Hungary, as it would entail a serious tax increase for businesses, which would lead to an increase in unemployment. In my view, corporate tax should not be increased to 15 per cent under the aforementioned difficult global political and global economic conditions. Moreover, the OECD proposal originally aimed at taxing large digital companies, but today the focus has shifted and production companies would also be subject to extra tax, which would jeopardise the jobs of tens of thousands of Hungarians. In this situation, the new tax burden on production companies could be fatal, especially if they want to be introduced at the beginning of 2023, while in the rest of the world, who knows when this will be introduced, if at all. Such a decision would put European companies at a competitive disadvantage. I have to say that we are indeed living in a time of crisis and uncertainty, but at the same time we can conclude that the budget presented in these extraordinary times is also a priority for the preservation of Hungarian families, pensioners, high employment and rising incomes, for ensuring the stability of career plans, for the development of health and higher education, and for the implementation of economically and socially significant investments. In order to achieve this, our most important task is to preserve Hungary's peace and security. As pointed out in a study of the MCC Climate Policy Institute, security of stable energy supply, increased energy sovereignty and protection of overhead cuts are currently priority national security issues. In recent days, my fellow factions have mentioned several times that the protection and support of families is of paramount importance to the Hungarian government. In this context, the budget for 2023 contains a number of elements, as the budget allocates HUF 3225 billion for family policy expenditure and benefits to support families. This policy includes, among other things, the guarantee of tax and contribution benefits, the exemption of people under the age of 25, support for children's meals and the provision of free textbooks, but also the continuation of the home creation programme, for which the budget provides more than HUF 490 billion. This is nearly three-and-a-half times the amount spent on housing subsidies in 2010. [[9.30]] As a result of the home creation programme, for example, programmes such as village CSOK, access to housing for families, constructions to improve housing conditions and tax reimbursement support for the modernisation of the residential building can continue. It is also important to stress that these subsidies help not only the situation of families and spare their wallets, but also contribute greatly to the protection of our created world. The renovations improve the energy efficiency of Hungarian houses, and the improvement of the quality of the real estate stock represents an additional step towards improving the energy independence of Hungary, since the cheapest and most environmentally friendly energy is the energy that we do not use. In order to protect our environment, we need to take thoughtful, but effective, steps that will contribute to achieving the climate targets we have undertaken, such as the Government's climate and nature conservation action plan, which will provide an appropriate framework for this. It is not necessary to implement unthinkable initiatives that would burden the population, such as the carbon tax advocated by Brussels, which would make people pay for the cost of the pollution generated predominantly by industry, including the Hungarian population. In its analysis of the Climate Policy Institute, it also points out that this package of proposals would in practice result in a significant increase in fuel consumption for the consumer, a rise in food prices, not to mention the amount of gas bills at home. All this goes against the goals for which our country's government is constantly struggling. The carbon tax would therefore, in principle, hit the less wealthy or the SME sector, who cannot buy, for example, immediately cleaner vehicles, and would therefore face increased tax burdens. In vain, Prime Minister Timmermans called the EU Commissioner for the European Green Agreement a proposal for a carbon tax as a crazy idea. On the basis of the national consultation launched last year, it is also clear that the Hungarian people refuse to charge the public with the cost of greening the European economy. Ladies and gentlemen, The importance of protecting our world created in this budget is reflected in many chapters and appropriations. In line with international expectations, we can say that Hungary's climate policy is fundamentally based on two strategic objectives: on the one hand, it aims to reduce domestic greenhouse gas emissions, to green the economy's operation and, on the other hand, to adapt to the inevitable effects of climate change. The policy objective is to promote energy saving, climate-friendly energy change and increase the share of renewable energy sources, to stimulate their use and to exploit the potential for economic development of energy innovation and climate change. The LIFE programme and the modernisation fund are another outstanding means of achieving Hungary's climate policy ambitions. With regard to environmental tasks, it is worth mentioning that we continue to support integrated and traditional environmental projects from direct EU development sources with a co-financing of some HUF 473.7 million, while the modernisation fund aims at modernising energy systems and increasing energy efficiency. The stability of energy supply has been assessed following events and trends in recent months. Our country's energy policy will continue to focus on ensuring the country's current secure energy supply, taking into account sustainability, consumer resilience and competitiveness. The aim is to secure, environmentally sustainable and competitive energy production and distribution, as well as to improve energy efficiency and reduce our country's energy dependency. At the same time, the objective is to improve ambient air quality and to prevent the development of air pollution that endangers human health and the natural environment. Measures to reduce particulate pollution by transport, industry, energy production, agriculture and the population are aimed at protecting human health and ecosystems, protecting the environment, the functioning and development of the economy and ensuring the long-term long-term development of society. The new national air load reduction programme sets national targets to reduce emissions of all relevant air pollutants, including measures to achieve them. Ladies and gentlemen, During the protection of our created world, sustainability tasks and utility services are of particular importance, with a budget of HUF 6280.7 million more than the previous year in 2023, i.e. HUF 25 1049 million. This includes the collection and recovery of waste from products subject to product charges, supporting related waste management improvements, performing public awareness-raising tasks, carrying out planning and development tasks related to the documents setting out the strategic objectives for waste management, supporting waste management and water utilities projects, financing the public development of priority economic zones. Additional support from local authorities includes support for the eradication of illegal waste, according to which the government supports the government's fight against illegal waste disposal by HUF 1 billion. To this end, the development of the tendering system will soon begin. Just think of the extent to which these illegally placed waste heaps pollute our environment if there is already a single PET bottle, otherwise recyclable, that has centuries of degradation, during which time it means continuous pollution to the environment. In addition, we should bear in mind that if they were returned to production thanks to the circular economy, the re-use of such products would also reduce the amount of waste produced by society. In this context, it should be pointed out that, for 2023, a surplus of HUF 45 200.1 million will be provided to the State Secretary for Circular Economy. It is also important to stress that the Ministry of Technology and Industry will continue to support organisations, professional associations and non-profit companies with a value of more than HUF 222 million in 2023 that carry out environmental awareness, environmental education, environmental technologies, processes and practices. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to environmental tasks, conservation tasks are also involved. Speaking of the effects of climate change, we cannot leave without talking about the increasingly dry weather and its impact on agriculture, as most of the problems today are caused by atmospheric drought and drought in the atmosphere. Developing agriculture through sustainable, integrated water management is a key objective for water security and the maintenance of safe food production, keeping pace with the expected effects of increasingly extreme weather conditions. In Hungary, the share of irrigated land is significantly below the European average, one of the steps taken is the 2019 Water Management Act and the 2020 Government Decree implementing it aims to provide farmers and water-based farming customers with opportunities that encourage sustainable water management. These two documents favour irrigation from surface water, as the proper storage, transfer, distribution and use of surface water for agricultural irrigation can reduce the harmful effects of climate change and the excessive use of groundwater with longer supply times, which also provides a significant proportion of domestic drinking water demand. As a new element, the possibility of using purified sewage and grey water for irrigation has also emerged. Through the Act and its package of measures, the obstacles to the implementation and operation of the investment in the development of agricultural irrigation resulting from the domestic mosaic property structure have been removed. [[9.40]] In view of this, it is not surprising that the use and development of irrigation in the budget currently includes a chapter-based appropriation of HUF 489.4 million, which is intended to provide the necessary resources for irrigation measures, since, in addition to the development of the main public works, it is also essential to meet the needs of the producer side for the growth of irrigated areas. In line with this, the protection of our natural values and the further support for nature conservation proposals, for which the Agricultural Ministry is currently providing financial support, are of paramount importance, so that EU and other international resources can be used as widely as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent times, even in the context of the effects of the coronal virus epidemic, we have seen a significant increase in society's demand for multi-faceted services in forests, in response to which the budget places greater emphasis on the development of the economic, defence and welfare services of forests, environmental education in order to improve the relationship between man and forest, and the strengthening of the recreational role of the forest. In addition, it will, of course, continue to place great emphasis on the achievement and achievement of the objectives of the national forest strategy, the preservation and enhancement of forest resources, the development of near-natural forest management methods, the protection of the health of forests, their resilience and adaptability, and the mitigation of the adverse effects of climate change. It is important to use forests today, taking into account the needs of the future generation. It is clear from all of this that the Government of Hungary, in its decisions on the protection of the environment and the protection of families, not only considers the financial support of families, but this vision also covers the protection of the health and quality of life of Hungarian families and the enforcement of the constitutional right to a healthy environment, which is also the aim of improving the state of the environment, economic development and the coordination of environmental aspects. To this end, sustainable use of natural resources, improvement of the quality of the environment, conservation of natural heritage and preservation of environmental safety are key conditions. In view of this, the priority will be to expand environmental awareness programmes, sustainability promotion events, and to continue programmes for environmental education, such as the National School Garden Development Programme, the Green Kindergarten Programme or the,, Save a Garden! A program. It is clear from the numerous budgetary elements listed above that Hungary is today committed to protecting the natural heritage and the natural conditions of the way in which the Hungarian people worked together. This budget can ensure the protection of Hungarian families, the energy security of Hungary, the protection of the achievement of the reduction of the rent, the protection of our created environment and the future of young people, so it is extremely important to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-23-18	Thank you for your input. I give the floor to Sándor Szabó, on behalf of the MSZP Group. Mr. Messenger, please.
u2022-06-23-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it is worth starting with the fact that the government's draft budget for next year is too hurrah-optimist. He was not born in a good environment, indeed, but not in a good time, in haste, and in view of the unpredictable economic environment ahead of us, perhaps the government could have considered submitting this draft budget to Parliament in a later period of sound and prudent numbers. It expects a 4.1 per cent increase in GDP, which the Fiscal Council has already raised with open criticism, as it will take a small amount of wonder to achieve this. But the Fiscal Council not only said that, but also urged the government to reach an agreement with the European Commission as soon as possible, as Hungary needs EUR 40 billion for our country more than ever before. Based on the budget's planning figures, it can be concluded that the government has under-planned GDP growth, the increase in tax revenues, while inflation and the magnitude of the deficit are extremely under-planned. The rate of price increases was set at 5 per cent and the euro rate was set at 307 HUF, and these figures reflect the degree to which the budget is well founded, much more as a dream world. It is also apparent that the government did not start saving on itself at all, as it announced when introducing the new special taxes. The state spends a lot more on itself than it used to, and the welfare functions have been significantly cut back. Just to compare a few figures from the time of previous socialist governments: the government spends 37 percent of its GDP on education, 14 percent on health care and 31 percent on pensions next year, as it did in 2010. Looking at the social area, it can be said that despite the years and decades of unprecedented price increases, despite the economic crisis of an inaccessible time, we still cannot say that the government would help the poorest, at best guarantee only stagnation. Indeed, inflation is being achieved by minimal increases, either in pensions or in individual social benefits, and they do not offer any perspective to hundreds of thousands of pensioners or families living in poverty. State support for housing will continue to be a privilege for those with higher incomes, and families with worse conditions will not really be able to expect change. Despite the family protection action, the government seems to expect a further decrease in child births, as the budget lines in this regard are significantly reduced, there is less access to maternity support, children, children, and even nursery construction. Moreover, it is clear from the data that only 23,6 percent of GDP is allocated to welfare expenditure instead of 24,6 percent this year, also as a sign, otherwise it was 31.1 percent in 2010. Turning to the municipalities, the chapter of the 2022 budget on municipalities is characterised in many respects by the repetition of last year's figures. Despite high inflation and the decline in the exchange rate of the forint, and the sharp rise in energy prices, there is almost the same amount in the municipalities' budgets as in previous years. The revenue from the municipal tax, called a solidarity contribution, from the central budget, will rise again. In terms of figures, this was 43 billion in 2020, three times this in 2022, 130 billion, and next year the central budget intends to collect 217 billion forints from municipalities. We've talked a lot about the car tax. In fact, this is now entirely the revenue of the central budget. This is a loss of HUF 35 billion to local governments since 2019, which is painful because, in addition to the operation, this may have been the only revenue, especially for small settlements, from which they may have been able to make some kind of development or anything else. The burden of local authorities continues to increase by being excluded from the scope of the reduction of the rent. A government decision states that the rules on the reduction of rent should be amended in such a way that they will apply only to retail consumers in the future, so that the local authorities will be in a more difficult situation than next year. Perhaps one positive or only one step forward from the point of view of municipalities is that one of their most important sources of income, the business tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises, seems to be the same for the time being. But it's a long year, László Parragh, we know he has brilliant ideas, and in the second half of the year he can come up with any proposal the government might otherwise have. By the way, this item reduced the resources of the settlements by HUF 150 billion. In my direct constituency, the centre of which is Szeged, we can say that only this year, in order to report some of the revenue losses, withdrawals have been made. The loss of hips amounted to 2.3 billion, the withdrawal of the car tax was HUF 500 million, the solidarity tax was 1.9 billion, while the lack of support for public transport was HUF 328 million this year alone. Even if the business tax discount is abolished next year, we can't be much happier, because, as I mentioned earlier, the solidarity tax increases significantly, so in the case of Szeged alone this will rise from 1.9 billion to 3.5 billion forints. [[9.50]] The decline in the program of modern cities is also continued. The figures are 135 billion in 2020, 85 billion in 2021, 50 billion in 2022 and 23,3 billion in the next year's budget. A similar path is also taken by the Hungarian village, which aims to improve the quality of life of people living in small settlements and to improve the road network of small settlements below 5 thousand people. In addition to the HUF 50 billion operating grant last year, an additional HUF 43 billion collection expenditure was available.Now, in the next year's budget, there is only HUF 26.7 billion accumulation expenditure. Overall, it can be said that next year's budget will not solve the problems of the municipalities, which we have experienced mainly since 2019, and it can even be said that mass municipal failures will occur in terms of energy prices that have been released if the government does not provide clear and meaningful assistance to the municipalities. For this reason, as a representative of the MSZP, I submitted an amendment to improve the funding of municipalities, which is about improving the financial situation of municipalities, which, by the way, is entirely consistent with the previous and current positions of municipal associations and advocacy associations. This is the total retention of the car tax in municipalities, so that municipalities can make some kind of development in addition to operating expenditure and spend most of this amount on infrastructure development. Return the settlements to community transport support, which was HUF 2 billion for a very long time, but this amount was no longer included in the budget of the last two years. I also submitted a further individual amendment to my own constituency, such as the preparation of the southern Tisza Bridge, preceded by a 20-year-old discourse, and two government decisions have been taken on this since 2017. I propose a preparation cost of HUF 2 billion. I propose the renovation of the 9,1 kilometer section between Szeged-Kübekháza, which, in my opinion, is one of the worst roads in the country, although we can see that our main roads are in extremely bad condition, but the three- and four-digit roads are almost intolerable. I also suggested the construction of the bicycle route between Klárafalva-Kiszombor and the renovation of the old school in Noszentiván. Returning to the budget as a whole, it can be concluded that, in addition to brutal restrictions, the government has submitted a budget of uncertainty to Parliament, we can actually say that the budget of insecurity is a budget. It is clear that in its proportions there will be again less money for education, health and social expenditure, and much more tax will be collected by the government. Prices are rising, especially families and pensioners living in poverty, but local governments are also in a more difficult situation. Meanwhile, we find that the government is not only looting, but also distributing. He shares it with their favored ones, those who have many, who are generously but completely unjustly spared from the extra taxes. In view of all this, we can say that we cannot support this budget in this form. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-06-23-20	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Sándor Kovács of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Let me start by saying that this budget is a budget for public security and defence. But I would like to respond immediately to the saying of my fellow Member, Mr Bencze, which is also related to Sándor Szabó's speech as a local government. On behalf of the municipalities, it involves trying to govern themselves. 44 settlements in the vicinity of Mátészalka have also assembled and are trying to coordinate mandatory service units, and they are trying to find solutions with non-profit companies to finance expenditure which is, by the way, municipal tasks. I think if we give the municipalities what they want, and only, what they want, it's a little bit of a corner. It is necessary to provide the necessary expenditure to carry out the public task, but in addition, they can contribute to the governance of the municipality with good management, good thinking and good analysis. I stress that there are 44 municipalities in my constituency, I am on an excellent relationship with all the mayors, and we have also taken the steps that had to be taken. And since we are talking about the budget for public health and defence, a very important part of this is the extra-profit special tax, which supports the Hungarian Defence Fund and the Rezségvédelmi Fund with about HUF 1500 billion. Szabolcs Szabó slides like he does when he says that these resources are being taken from us as taxes. Szabolcs, the extra-profit tax means that the companies took something, much more because of the war than they should have done otherwise. That's right, it's from us! The government will take this back and turn it into what it needs. Do not suggest that the Hungarian people will be paid! These companies have already paid, and we want to take it back from them. Be nice to be fair, and don't let it slip that we're trying to take away taxes from people. No, Szabolcs, no! You're slipping, and you're trying to make it look like the government is trying to take the tax away from people. But let's look at what 670 billion of the Trust Fund means, or 842 billion of the Defence Fund, which, by the way, also accounts for 2% of GDP, which is the obligation of our NATO membership. These two revenues are about allowing Hungarian people to live their lives in a calm manner in 2023, and the kind of overhead that is generated by war, not with them, but with companies that collect extra profit. There's a war going on next door, and I think this is when we need to protect our country, or at least we need to be prepared for events that could happen a few hundred kilometers or four or ten kilometers from our border at any time. So you have to be prepared. But with all these negative trends, this budget aims to bring economic growth to 4.1 percent, which was 7.1 percent in 2022, to set the deficit-to-GDP target at 3.5 percent, and to target inflation at 5.2 percent. Here, I note, what we did to the pensioners in 2010, we do, because we hold a pension increase corresponding to the current inflation, so we do not allow pensioners to become poor. We also have a dispute with the opposition. This budget also raises funds for this. And the 13th month pension, which the government was going to introduce on a weekly basis, was paid in a single amount, and this amount is also available in 2023, with family policy spending increasing by 450 billion, i.e. to 3225 billion, in addition to the pension, taking into account the personal income tax exemption for those under 25 years of age. In 2023, families with children, as I said, will receive 3225 billion subsidies, that is 450 billion more, as I said, but it is exactly contrary to the opposition's intention, who, in turn, want to provide social benefits through aid, and our civilian government finances a work-based society, which also aims to reduce the tax on participation in the work, or the rate of zero tax for those under the age of 25. I also think that the home creation programme is safe. [[10.00]] Because I remember that time before 2010, they promised to keep the well-functioning constructions, and the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány immediately abolished the support for people's preferential loans. The textbook service is free, the meals are free. This wasn't before 2010, because people had students and parents pay for the economic crisis treatment that you voted for before the elections by reducing VAT, and then, by the time it came into force, you won the elections in 2006 and you raised it back to double. But let me also talk a little bit about my profession, the social sector and child protection. He went to the Ministry of the Interior and received a lot of criticism that Mr. Minister of the Interior certainly knew how to do this. For a minister, I think you don't have to know everything. A good team needs to be set up, and good decisions need to be made. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In the person of Attila Fülöp, a social politician with an old term, he now has a new idea for him, and this is the care policy, as the State Secretary responsible for this, he provides government coordination and related professional and professional policy discussions. The sector's tasks include child protection, social, child welfare services, employment and rehabilitation support, and the development of their future. It is a major task to further improve the situation of people with disabilities and to integrate people with disabilities into the labour market. The Minister of the Interior shall determine, in the framework of the responsibility for social affairs, the system of professional supervision in social matters. The main regulator of social institutional benefits and services systems is the 1993 III. Law, hereinafter referred to as the Social Law. Along these lines, through the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Child Protection, SZGYF ensures the operation of the social and child protection institutions maintained by the State and contributes to the services operated by municipal, ecclesiastical and non-state maintainers. Let me stop here for a moment, too, because the opposition is sick of the fact that the churches are involved in policies of education, social policy and other reservations that are state tasks. I think that the Jewish-Christian culture of the Hungarian Christian Democratic Government and Hungary has been a basis for the fact that the community that keeps this faith and this foundation in the country should be responsible for carrying out these tasks over the last thousand years. To go further: the National Social Policy Institute was recently named after Margit Slachta, a famous social politician who provided the annual XXXI. the operation of a system of training, training and training under the Child Protection Act, on child protection, guardianship, social policy management. The task of the specialty is to provide child protection, including basic child welfare care, special care for children and the care of guardianship authorities, as well as to shape and implement the regulatory framework for the provision of remedial care in the legal framework. But since I have promised my fellow Members that I will bring in the slip because I have to go to a committee meeting, I would just like to mention a few points on social policy and child protection. I think that the most important objectives of the social affairs field in 2023 are the long-term predictability, operation and development of social, child welfare and child protection services. In this context, and in order to strengthen service providers, improve the labour market situation of disabled people and people with disabilities, develop and ensure equal opportunities, improve and encourage more open employment in the labour market. The provision and development of social policy and child protection services in churches, special support for autistic persons, small-scale institutions with disabilities, continuous support of social diagnosis for family and child welfare centres. I could list a great deal of what is being done in the old terminology through the Minister of State for Care of the Ministry of the Interior in the new terminology, EMMI State Secretary for Social Affairs. This is a guarantee with this increase in the budget that, in the social situation, the needy citizens, including foreign nationals, are guaranteed in all respects to help refugees from Ukraine. But allow me to bring development policy ideas from my area of individual representatives, because here I see my dear fellow Member, István Apáti, who will surely say the very important investment of the M49 motorway, the construction of the prison in Bell, the possibility of a new mayor's office in Mátészalka. [[Dr. István Apáti: That's for sure! I'm getting ready!]] I trust that we can achieve management and economic development, and in this we must be partners, individual representatives or list representatives, to support or help the local interests of the population. Thank you very much for your attention. With these, I recommend adopting the budget for 2023. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-23-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State, who is taking control of things just after the change. The next speaker was Mr István Apáti of the Group of our country. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Although I was preparing for a different order, because Sándor Kovács reads my thoughts accordingly, or knows my habits and knows my way of thinking, I will reverse the original order of my speech. I can assure you, Mr Kovács, that, as I have always done, I continue to support the development of the constituency in everything, and I have almost been a record record of speeches on the M49 route over the past twelve years. At least a dozen times, or perhaps more than a dozen times, I have brought this up or addressed the authorities in the form of a written question, since the connection of the constituency of Mátészalka to the national and European circulation is a key strategic issue, not to mention that the investment would probably create a number of jobs for the poorest district of the country, the district of Chenger, which is an integral part of this constituency. And, of course, I will not be a wheel-breaker for the renovation of the Mátészalka hospital or the mayor's office in Mátészalka, as I passionately urged in my hometown, Csenger, to build the prison, it seems that out of the nine prisons originally planned to be the only one in the country, which is part of the programme for reducing the overcrowding of prisons. And if you can believe the news, although it would be good if we finally got credible information both as a representative and those living in the area, perhaps now a thousand-placed penitentiary will be built instead of the 500-seat originally planned, which means that at least 500 employees per employee, such as a family of four, would provide or contribute significantly to the livelihood of at least two thousand people in the area. So I've been pushing for these investments, I've always called to account on the government, and I've always reminded the Prime Minister exactly for the day that on 4 May 2017 at the inauguration of the Ring district school in the morning hours before the rain started, it's getting thinner and thinner these days, he promised the Ringers and the Chengers the construction of the M49 bypass road and the construction of the Jing's prison. So I'm not sure I'm going to be a wheelie, the more supportive I am, because it's also a matter of life for our neighborhood to rise. And here I would like to make an interesting political connection as the only opposition representative of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. In Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, Fidesz-KDNP achieved the best results or results of the 3 April elections. I would be very pleased if this would show up in the growth of the average earnings of people living in the area, either in the development of the road network, in the development of the institutional network, in the relocation of mainly Hungarian-owned enterprises, and in the quality of life and everyday life of the county as well, of course, with a positive sign. After all, I believe that, if you look at this unwritten political logic or system of rules, then Fidesz-KDNP belongs to Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County in terms of your thinking, so there is something to refer to when lobbying for development ideas starts. [[10.10]] But to get to the discussion or mention of the national budget issues, I would like to confirm what the leader of the Group of Our Country said here yesterday, that the Hungarian Movement holds this for the multi-annual budget, and that there are many major losers to this draft budget. I would like to start immediately with health, education and law enforcement, but I could go on with the municipalities, or even in the case of some revision of family support benefits, let's say, with families with one and two children or leaving them to the fate of deviz-based credentials, which has certainly not been said in the last two days. Health care, at least what you can see from this in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, is going down at stormy speeds. It is true that this is where visible wage increases have been made in recent years, but there is a very high percentage of untrained people. And what the government did here during the World War II pandemic with health workers was basically a form of vaccination blackmail or coercion, which did not increase the attractiveness of this career. But perhaps even more serious is the situation in education, where there is a starting teacher's wage in the net area of 160 thousand forints. This is worth tasting, my fellow Members, because it means precisely that a beginner educator, as well as a beginner police officer, will receive 16 pieces of 10 grand or 8 pieces of 20 grand at the end of the month as a result of his work. Well, in the current inflation environment, taking into account the rents in Budapest or in the metropolitan area, taking into account the costs associated with everyday living, it is not possible to go to the bus stop on foot, let alone make a decent living. It is no wonder, therefore, that there is a very high percentage of non-workers in education, and otherwise not only in the less developed parts of the country, but also in schools in Buda, which are thought to be financially well-equipped or believed to be in schools in Buda, there are very many teachers and assistants who leave the course, because they simply cannot make a living from this salary, even if they are able to work in summer tesco, lydels or aldis, or other jobs, they cannot make a living, where else, and they are slowly unable to buy food from these salaries. Police patrols, starting cops, that's the same thing. It is no coincidence that, when the ban was lifted, at least 300 police officers were discharged within a few weeks, and this was only the beginning of the wave of disarmament. To add, I would be happy if our country weren't right about this, but we are afraid that the police will find it very difficult to stop this kind of wave of disarmament. It is not a coincidence that the phenomenon that we have not talked about here, but that it should also be discussed, that many police political parties want to join, asking for political parties, but not because they want to politicalize, not because they have an insurmountable desire to participate in the swampy mud wrestling of Hungarian internal politics, but, you know, because they are being fired because of it. Because then they will be dismissed from the force, but even in the police it often does not result in the termination of service, although it is supposed to be immediate termination, but there are often slight disciplinary penalties imposed by the service officers, because there are no police so much that they are forced to break the law on professional service that they should, in the first place, be required to comply with. But it's not the cops' fault, it's not the patrols, it's not the low-level cops, it's the deputy staff, it's not the cops' fault they're in this situation. If there is money in other areas, then we should find resources to strengthen the police force and keep police personnel. And if we look at nothing but, let's say, the past few events that have happened, say, in Kerepes or Kispesten, the phenomena that we previously thought were typical of North-East Hungary or South-Transdanubia, in Pest County and in some districts of the capital, are increasingly common, problems related to subcultural crime. In order to eliminate and contain these, a team force, a number of forces, a sufficient number of teams must be deployed, due to the nature of the crime, but it is not possible to set up any team force, because in order to do so, let's say, a team would have to, and the decommissioning police or major disarmaments would make this impossible. But not only health care, education or law enforcement are in an extremely difficult situation, and, I add, obviously, there are circumstances that the government can't or can't do less. Obviously, the Russian-Ukrainian, more specifically, the Russian-American war in the Ukrainian territory, is not his fault. However, a pandemic replacing the world war, Covid, can be dealt with in a bad way, because there have been a number of excessive bans, restrictions, completely illogical measures, which, if they do not introduce or decide otherwise, do not come down from such a negative economic point of view. But while many here have been talking about the food crisis, the energy crisis, let me note, on behalf of the Hungarian Movement, that there will be a strategic key issue for healthy drinking water, a sufficient quantity and quality of food and the provision of fuel or energy. Compared to this, we do not see any improvement in the situation of farmers, and the situation of farmers is significantly affected by historical droughts. We are in a position, my fellow Members, to look at the events a little more practical once again, so that we must slowly, say, not only water the fruit trees, water them to survive or to give them some fruit, but we must also begin to irrigate the forest trees, at least watering them at the nursery, which is quite shocking, because my dear late grandfather in Csenger spoke to me a great deal about the cultivation and irrigation of fruit trees, but he never said a word about the irrigation of forest trees, because this was not necessary, this was not done. Now we are going to have to water the oaks, the acacia plants, too, because drought also damages or destroys these varieties, at least when they are young, which is a key issue for food production in terms of future fuel, industrial wood needs or fruits. We see that, even as a member of the family farm of its farmers, I can say that the expected buying-in prices do not reflect at all the significant cost-enhancing factors that Hungarian farmers have to take into account. Compared to recent years, fertilizer costs have increased significantly, chemical prices have increased, gas oil has increased by nearly HUF 500, labour costs have increased significantly. They are now also blowing up the farmers' necks by raising the daily public space from HUF 500 to HUF 1000 on a daily basis, although this should be reduced, or even temporarily suspended, in order to increase employment and reduce the employer's burden, and, compared to the increased burden, not only would the buying-in prices increase, but they will decrease and stagnate at best. Now, for certain types of fruit, buyers want to pay the same price they gave last year, even though the costs mentioned above have already increased significantly. It is quite amazing, however, that the fruits of the sweaty work of the Hungarian peasant man or the Hungarian farmers are being bought by multis, and I am referring to the budget of the multinationals here, and let's say that the apple that we can sell for 100 or 120 forints is the worst version of what we don't put into the falling apple, the juice, because we would be ashamed to sell to the people of Budapest for 400-500-600 forints. Whether through the various control authorities this should be dealt with much more, that while the Hungarian farmers are bleeding out at the eastern border, they are not selling at gold and diamond prices in Pest and other large cities what, again, we are ashamed to put into the eating apple, but also in the juice, because it is of such poor quality. I've seen this on several occasions, but it's just a parentheses comment. If I want to put it a little harder, then very gently, with a little restraint of my momentum, I can tell you that, at present, the situation seems to be that the Hungarian farmer does not work for up to 12-14 hours a day; he does not make any progress; he who only makes violent and determined hand movements around certain parts of his body benefits from it. And in order to stop or eliminate this, you will do nothing, but with infinite satisfaction I do not know, because you are so satisfied, or by the time this great confidence, such as the bad football player who watches the game closely, you will be watching this from close up, even though the importance of being a healthy food may be of unprecedented importance for the last 32 years. [[10.20]] But speaking of the energy crisis, many Hungarian families can only heat with wood. Somewhere between 500,000 and 1 million, there can be the number of Hungarian properties that can be heated only with wood by nature. There is no indication that, let's say, firewood is exempt from VAT, although the cost of the fuel of the truly firewood quality will be around HUF 4,000 per glaze, at least from the line of state forest farms. The price per mace is 4,000 HUF for a freshly cut firewood, practically wet and not necessarily useful for most Hungarian families. The social firewood programme, before it is argued, can satisfy only a small fraction of real needs, making firewood fully VAT-free for at least a short period of time, at least for this heating season, which will start in October, would be very helpful, provided that it appears in consumer prices and is not swallowed up by traders. This would be very helpful to Hungarian families. We could talk about family support without the need to be complete. Yesterday, a brief reference was made to this, but I'd like to open it a little more. The Hungarian Movement misses the growth of family support for the first and second children. The family of three and four children is very beautiful, only nature has shaped a person so that the triple and quadruple twins are rarely born, so in order to be three or four children, first the first and second children are required, and these families are not inferior members or cells of Hungarian society, these families with one or two children deserve much higher support. Then there are issues with a broader link to the budget. Over the last few weeks, there has been a great deal of controversy over the cata, the flat-rate tax for small entrepreneurs. I tried to do a short head count during a debate. If we assume that there are 460 thousand katás entrepreneurs, 108 thousand side jobs, and the others are catapulting in full-time jobs, then the annual income from Kata can be somewhere around HUF 200-270 billion. He certainly brought a lot more to the kitchen every year than the government planned. So we're dealing with a real success story, and they're either trying to end this success story, or in less harsh cases, they're trying to significantly undermine the lives of katási entrepreneurs either by cutting the activities, raising taxes or any other environment. 460 thousand Katás sends a message to the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament that it contributes to the livelihood of about 400 thousand and 1 million 800 thousand Hungarians, or possibly to ensure the livelihood of so many people in their entirety. [[Sic!]] So a very serious entrepreneurial layer and a very serious social factor, a very serious economic and social issue, is how you want to touch Kata. It is also amazing how the income from a paying place, maximized in HUF 3 million from January 1, 2020 at HUF 250 thousand per month, is determined. Since 1 January 2020, there has been hyper-inflationary or close inflation, it is therefore necessary to consider very carefully how the related income limits and the tax above are to be determined. We consider the 40 percent penalty tax not to be educational, but to be retributive and outrageous. A maximum rate of 15% could be allowed and the ceiling for income from the same paying agent should be increased to at least six million instead of the current 3 million. Let's look at the revenue side, because I don't really think it's in the pockets of the catwalks, but it's supposed to be in the pockets of those with plenty of profit, but it's in the widest extension. This is what you call the extra-profit tax, which has been known as an epidemic solarity tax since March 2020 of the Hungarian Movement, and, in essence, we are talking about nearly the same or very similar taxes. Yes, we do, but we also have a serious sense of absence, because we have not seen in the list, let us say, the vaccine manufacturers, who are the biggest beneficiaries of this whole Covid madness, this world war pandemic, even compared to normal pharmaceutical manufacturers, are almost insurmountable, hyper, extra or I do not know what benefit they have gained in the last two years, even compared to the average pharmaceutical manufacturers. Of course, they have done this with vaccines with questionable effectiveness, which, speaking or unspoken, have far from fulfilled their expectations, not to mention side effects, but I do not want to bring this here at all. The other issue, which is more about domestic gambling circles, is the taxation of casinos. Well, if you're from somewhere, there's plenty of money to be taken from the casino sector, whether it's tens of thousands or even hundreds of billions of dollars. But not only do they not want to hit them with an extra profit tax, they don't even connect them to the NAV's online cash register system. Why? Because a lot of money can be moved by keeping the whole thing under radar and disappearing to the authorities, a lot of gray and black money can be flown for different payments, almost making money, even though this sector is the sector that would tolerate a large amount of extra-profit tax for at least the next two years. You're talking about various defence funds, honourable government representatives, protection of public health, defence. That's a very good idea, but we're missing out on small and micro businesses, too. Two weeks ago, I submitted an interpellation on this issue. The answer is that at least 100,000 micro and small entrepreneurs remain in this circle. Well, what seems to be happening now is that it was a trumped-up lie, because it would be a small fraction of a hundred thousand micro- and small entrepreneurs who would use it only for a small fraction of their annual gas consumption of 1,500 cubic metres or an upper limit of 4,000 kilowatt-hour electricity consumption per year. I am very sorry that my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Kovács, left the room, because just yesterday several people called from the area of Mátészalka and his residence, Géberjén, that entrepreneurs are being removed from the community of Rezsvédett in connection with water consumption, and then continue with electricity and gas, whose permanent residence and headquarters are the same, so he is at the same address, and the water provider has voluntarily started loading these people into the area that will make them pay much higher tariffs. So much for this reduction in rent, in which it will be very good for the population to remain in it, we hope that they will not start throwing away different parts of the population, but the fact that micro and small entrepreneurs remain defenceless is virtually absolutely certain. Last but not least, let me draw your attention to the danger of an upcoming social disaster. We do not hear a single word about the protection of foreign exchange-based authentics, we do not read a single line, but we do see that on 15 June the eviction and property auction moratorium, the entire executive mob, the real estate hyenas have been unleashed on Hungarian society, and you have allowed them to do so, but we know about the hyenas that their main feature is that they are never full. You make tens of thousands of or hundreds of thousands of Hungarian real estates a free prey, and if you had an overdeveloped defence instinct as you think you are, then you should also protect foreign exchange-based credentials as a quick measure, as a quick help, by restoring the eviction and property auction moratorium. Don't worry about the few factor companies, don't look at the interests of the few factor companies that are putting pressure on you. In addition, this is happening in the shadow of a Völner-Schadl case, from which very bad conclusions, very suspicious conclusions can be drawn. So, since the defence impact and the defence force are far less than what you proclaim about yourself, and there are many shortcomings in this budget, which is the budget of the multinationals, so obviously our country Movement will not be able to support this. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2022-06-23-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr István Simicskó, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Much has already been said in the general debate on the budget and in the course of yesterday. We all know that a budget, a country's budget, is a huge task and a huge responsibility. In a normal period of peace, it is no small task, so even in a period of prolonged war that is present in our neighbourhood, and which, of course, contains many, many uncertainties, beyond security risks, also in economic processes. We are confident, of course, and we always say that we are on the side of peace, and it is not up to us when this peace will come, but we will do everything we can to ensure that peace comes. [[10.30]] However, when the budget is to be put together, these financial processes, economic processes, the negative effects and uncertainties of the prolonged war must all be considered, and that is why I say that it is a huge responsibility and a huge task that the Ministry of Finance has done. Therefore, I usually begin by thanking the staff of the Ministry of Finance for their enormous and responsible work, thanking the Secretary of State of Banai for his activities and professional preparation, and, of course, by handing over our appreciation to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga and Minister of State Tállai András Tállai for this great work. The state, as we know, has classic tasks. Modern states also have basic tasks, primarily exercising distribution functions, exercising allocation tasks, which means that what the private sector cannot do, cannot be done, is the state's duty to do, for example, to keep the roads in order, to build, to help science and so on. I would like to draw attention to the task of stabilisation, and to this I would like to point out the importance of this, because in a budget of stability, predictability, as much as we can, of course, and with human knowledge, it can be assessed and prepared, this function is particularly important today, especially in terms of guaranteeing security, so maintaining order and security, and I understand this in the sense of life safety, and therefore also in terms of Hungarian families. It is important that economic growth can be planned as far as public incentives are available, as economic growth gives all sectors the opportunity to operate in a predictable way, and, of course, the distribution function can be effectively performed by the state, creating jobs, increasing employment and so on. The state, as we know, today's modern states have economic resources, so it has opportunities and economic policy instruments to help the economy operate and to cooperate with public actors and private actors. It has fiscal instruments, which are basically budgetary instruments, i.e. types of taxes, rates, which basically define this toolbox, and it has a monetary function and a toolbox for the current state, especially through the banking system, it can affect economic operators, there is a supply of money, the level of interest rates, and the rest. These too, obviously, were considered by the experts of the Ministry of Finance when the budget was submitted to the legislative authority, and which we can talk about here today in substance. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me make a parentheses comment, because there may also be such a philosophical debate that the state has, or will not have, these tasks. Many have talked about the death of the state, various ideologists, but it is certain that during the early enlightenment period, we know the classics, Adam Smith or David Ricardo, they said that virtually the intervention of the state into the economy is unnecessary. So the markets were completely free and self-regulating and omnipotent. Obviously, we have realised that it would be a big problem if the state's task system did not extend to boosting the economy, helping and encouraging economic operators to grow, compete fairly, and so on. If this were the case, if this approach had remained so today, it would probably have been a lot less attention and focus on the support of families in our current budget and in our budget next year, because the market is not necessarily on the support of families, because that is not the job of the market, but the market is a competitive market, and economic operators are obviously seeking profits, and some of them even extra profit in this situation. That is why it is right that this budget and government's financial policy, economic policy, are certainly the actors, sectors where they can gain extra profit, involve them in sharing the burden, and create resources, protection funds to facilitate and facilitate the lifestyle and lifestyle of Hungarian families. I found some interesting writings referring to this, and this is John Wilson's writing, who predicted in 1927 that by 1977, the family would be virtually gone, extinct, and David Cooper wrote a book on the death of the family in 1971. So, if the state would have let it go, and there would not be a kind of human-centred policy and economic policy that does take account of the various actors in society and also seeks to maintain care and social institutions, obviously with the help of the churches our historical churches play a prominent role in this, then probably these writings, these items would have been true, they would have been true, but it would be very sad if this were so. We, Christian Democrats, see the future of mankind as being accomplished by family, the family as the most important framework for passing on life and raising our children. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, we always look at all the budgets prepared by the government through the glasses that support families, whether they pay attention or not to the future of families, and make it better and easier for families to thrive and live. What is the priority in a budget in the language of numbers? What we see is that in this budget, which has now been drawn up and put before us by the government, there is a high priority and even a high priority in increasing support for families, and we are pleased to note this, Christian Democrats, which is why we will support the adoption of the budget. Of course, there are other values in the planned budget before us. We are pleased to see that by 2023 there will be a HUF 3225 billion increase in family support and this amount will be available to help families. This means that, compared to the previous year, the government provides some HUF 450 billion more resources in such a difficult and unpredictable economic situation, in our war-torn world it also strives to support and support families. Overall, some HUF 4900 billion is available to help pensioners. This also seems comforting, and it is even comforting that the 13th month pension is included in the planned budget with HUF 370 billion. Obviously, the Renewal Fund also needs to protect the values of the reduction of costs, and the creation of this fund is also to be welcomed on our part. Allow me, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, to express my appreciation that, yes, the classic state task of maintaining order and security, i.e. the task of stabilisation, is also greatly expanded, not only by establishing the Defence Fund, but also by providing a budget, defence and defence as a whole, with a draft budget that shows unprecedented amounts, an unprecedented expansion. When I was a minister, we knew from a budget of 350-400 billion forints, that if there was so much to move, they would limit our movement to a significant degree. But it is a joy that, when he was still a minister in 2016, as a minister at that time, I had the chance, by the grace of God, to come up with the programme of defence and military development of Zrinyi 2026, which is progressing on a large scale. So I am happy to acknowledge this at all, because in this situation, well-well, the correct assumption has been confirmed and, if any, our decision that world peace has not yet been broken, there is a need for a powerful force, it is necessary to guarantee peace in this way for Hungary, in itself, with the fact that there is a strong Hungarian defence. So the Hungarian Defence Office is not created because we want to participate in constantly successful armed fighting and wars. Of course, in international peacekeeping processes, as we have already done, this level of demand remains, but in itself there is a deterrent force for a powerful Hungarian defence not to possibly involve Hungary in any military conflict. We love peace, and that is why we need to maintain a powerful Hungarian defence. I would just like to point out that, if we look at the old Chinese characters in ancient China, I do not know, you know, fellow Members, what was the sign of peace: a soldier holding a spear. Yes, they knew that there was peace only if we could preserve it. That's why I think it's wise for the government to develop defence. Obviously, we can see that law enforcement, law enforcement, is worth nearly HUF 1000 billion, HUF 965 billion. Compared to 2010, this is 517 billion forints more, so the law enforcement agencies' budgets have doubled. [[10.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, and now, this portfolio has been expanded with a new function, as sport is included in the current government structure for some HUF 1561 billion for defence and sport, including sport, if I looked at it correctly, about HUF 138.8 billion. This is also growing and expanding significantly. Overall, this shows a 40 percent increase in the defence budget compared to the previous year. It's a huge growth. It wasn't much of a case, except for the war periods, it's a historical example. But it is certain that we are already achieving what President Trump put up in 2016 or 2017 at a NATO summit, if I remember correctly, if we are to reach 2 percent of the gross domestic product that we use for protection as soon as possible. This has now been achieved, so we have committed to NATO for 24 hours, and we have now been able to bring this forward by a year. I think this also shows our allies that we are serious about our work in the Alliance, but we also think very seriously that we have a role to play in this, so I am not looking at this from the perspective of fulfilling federal obligations, it is also important, but also from the point of view of ourselves, in terms of achieving the goal we have set ourselves, and the implementation of a coherent, predictable, predictable programme will be achieved through this. Of course, there are many elements to this. The number of defenses can be increased by 1250 people. This is an important thing, because back in 2016, when we decided to set off on the path of strengthening the Hungarian Defence Forces, we decided that there would be a permanent military force of 30 thousand people in the Hungarian Defence Forces, we estimate this, we equip it, we equip it with individual equipment, they will receive proper training, and there will be a reserve pool of 20,000 people, which will be realized in a national system, by creating area protection regiments. This process has also accelerated, and now we have 12,000 backups. Here, too, I note in parentheses that in 2010 the reserve staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces consisted of 17 people, which is indeed a shame with a calm conscience. What I see is opening up to society, because the protection of the country is a national matter, and this is not just a declaration of defence law 1. § (1) but it must also be done, and it must also be worked to become one, so we need programs to address society, especially our young people. It is important and I am pleased to see that the Defence Sports Association, which I also had the opportunity to create as a minister with the support of the National Assembly and is operating as a public body, is increasing support here too, because the defence sports centers that offer young people the opportunity to develop defence training locally through the practice of sports, fighting sports, technical sports. So it is important to see that these programs go on, that the defence camps go on, which, together with the military, also involve activists of the Defence Sports Federation. There are over 100,000 members of the Defence Sports Association, and by the way, it has nearly 500 member organizations, and we started out in 17 from zero. So it is important that these programmes also go on. The cadet training, which was also launched in 2017, now has a contract with 110 secondary schools for the Hungarian Defence Service, we started from zero. We took the British sample as a basis. These processes are also progressing, and I hope that the socialisation of defence, the national action, can continue to strengthen defence through these programmes. We have the financial guarantee elements, the resources. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, let me also say about the sport sector, as I have had the honour of working as Secretary of State for Sport for three years, so one eye has always remained in the sport sector. The process that we managed to launch during my Sports Secretary-General period is very important, which is the development support for 16 priority sports. This process is also progressing. The support of the metropolitan clubs, the six major metropolitan associations, is also clearly increasing. You can see the sports success of Hungarian athletes, see the water world championship and what quality world competitions and sports competitions we can organize. Next year, the budget includes the World Athletics Championship and the Karate World Cup, if I remember correctly, 19 billion athletics and 2 billion karate World Cups. These are important things so that we can sort these things out and show our ability to organize and sort things out in front of the world. So I see that the sports sector is also experiencing significant growth, at least in the language of numbers in the budget. I've left the assessment of the national security services specifically responsible for security issues for the last time. Obviously, the Military National Security Service is under the control of the Secretary of Defense, and the budget is increasing there, that's good. They're doing an excellent job at the Military Security Service. In general, civil national security services also have growth in almost all sectors. Thus, the budget for support will increase from 12.5 to 13 billion at the Constitutional Protection Office. There is a smaller decrease in the Information Office, there is a greater increase in the National Security Service, from 26 billion to 29,5 billion, and from 3.7 billion to 4.1 billion at the National Information Centre. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to conclude by referring to the beginning by referring to the criteria on which we Christian Democrats should judge a draft budget before us, which is about the future of the country, about the future of Hungarian families. We see that the draft budget in front of us, which is for the year 23, contains Christian Democratic values, protects the results of the cuts, thereby increasing the security and support of families, and also prioritises Hungary's territorial sovereignty and security, as the defence budget is also increasing, and both funds, the Rezségvédelmi Fund and the Hungarian Defence Fund contribute to ensuring that the appropriate financial elements are available beyond the reserves. That is why we are in favour of the draft budget before us, and we are asking all our fellow Members to support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the Dialogue Group is Ms Rebecca Szabó. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-23-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as I have just listened to the Fidesz and KDNP speeches, it is once again proven that we are watching a completely different movie. We have also reviewed this budget for next year, and the truth is that we see that this unfortunately does not serve the protection of families at all, and I find it very worrying that this will be a particularly restrictive budget. This budget is the Orbán government's multi-billion-dollar austerity package, which, by the way, I think Lajos Bokros is about. he could have been jealous, and I fear that the effects of this will also be felt by Hungarian families. What I find particularly outrageous in this budget is that the government doesn't save anything on its own or on its oligarchs. Lősá-ros Lőrincek will not take on any greater burden from the joint, their companies and their assets will not be affected by public burdens. This can also be seen with the tax you call extra-profit tax, that for some reason both casinos and these large construction companies are somehow missing out on this tax. I'm sure you don't think you've earned enough, and you don't have to contribute to the commons. In addition, we know that the forint is constantly weakening and that people are being paid the price of their bad economic policies that cause inflation. We see in this budget that public sector workers, educators, social workers, elderly workers, health nurses and nurses will not receive a raise, but I could even mention law enforcement workers or firefighters. Meanwhile, we are facing the climate crisis, the energy crisis and the biodiversity crisis, and the budget does not seem to care about anything. By the way, I note here that I listened with great interest to the previous speech by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, Member of the KDNP, and there were a number of things in it, a number of goals that I liked, but unfortunately I cannot find them in the budget. The Congresswoman has just said that the best energy is the one that we are not using. I completely agree with you on that, and I'm very glad that those sentences are coming from your benches. What I don't understand is that when opposition representatives, such as a deputy mayor, say things like maybe less energy should be used, then the fidesz media will come after him, and on all the media areas affected by Fidesz, how can I put it? They label it almost crazy, how to say that, to use less energy. [[10.50]] But I'm glad that Dawn Juhász told you this now, because then I guess it's just... I've written down this sentence, and we can look at it in the report. So I'm glad that there is a consensus somewhere like this, that yes, otherwise during a climate crisis and an energy crisis, energy saving and energy efficiency, to reach the level of comfort that people need, but to use less energy for this is a very important goal. But unfortunately, I see that at the time Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, when his second prime minister only began, said that there would be no Ministry of the Environment, we saw this then, but the government weight of environmental and nature protection remains unchanged. Then, even at the time, the Fidesz MEP József Szájer, a happy memory, made a promise, even when he created the Fundamental Law, that constitutional guarantees of environmental protection and nature protection would be transferred from the old constitution to the new Fidesz Fundamental Law. I'm afraid that hasn't been achieved. Compared to these, we are now at a point where sustainability in Europe has been uniquely absent from representation in the government since the fourth cycle, it has completely degraded, lost its professionalism and prestige by the environmental authority integrated in government offices, and unfortunately, through the obviously unsubstantiated flagship investment law, power is now able to decoupling any public or private investment from the existing environmental and nature laws, as we are currently seeing in many cases, even in connection with the destruction of Lake Fertő. But there are also many of these priority projects in Budapest, one point in Bosnyák Square in Zugló, where the opinion of the local people could not be heard before it was declared a priority investment. Unfortunately, the draft budget submitted also promises to continue this tragic and inexplicable process of deterioration, and not only promises it, but unfortunately also determines it, because it does not include a single area related to sustainability, which would have increased support, while the government spends more on environmentally harmful activities. There is such a line in the budget that environmental and nature conservation tasks. For this reason it was 4 billion forints last year; this year it will be reduced to 3 billion forints. I don't know exactly what this title means, but I can't imagine that there is an environmental and nature conservation task to be taken away from, knowing the environmental status of Hungary; especially compared to the increase of HUF 3 billion in support of car and motor sports. I don't know why it's a government task. Aren't there enough car manufacturers in the country? It is said to be the strongest sector in the Hungarian economy. If car manufacturers care about car sports, why do they not support this noble goal? And if it doesn't matter to them, then why do we all have to spend our taxes on this hobby activity, like instead of environmental protection? Then the GMO compensation framework will triple. Here I wonder what the reason for this is in a country whose GMO-free status is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. I don't know if the import control is working well, or if illegal contaminated seeds are going into the country, there may be cultivation experiments that we don't know about. I will ask you these questions in the appropriate forums, but I am not sure that the taxpayers will have to pay the bill instead of the companies concerned and the sectors concerned. Then we also see that the support of the Central Nuclear Fund is doubled. The Nuclear Fund is responsible for financing the disposal of high-activity radioactive waste from Paks. I think that if this system were to function fairly, this fund would not need support, because according to the relevant Hungarian and EU rules, it should be charged from the payments of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Compared to this, every year this fund needs public help, just twice as much as last time. All this is committed to the budget in a country where wind power is banned in Europe in an unprecedented way and solar panels are taxed. I do not know that you are sure that under these circumstances, when all of Europe is looking for ways to increase the share of locally produced renewable energy, we must spend the state's scarce resources to support a nuclear power plant. I mean, if your budget really is about the future, and it's not about the money needs of the Fidesz Moonyard and the desperate filling of the gaps created by the failed economic policy, although we see in this budget now that it doesn't really work, then this budget should contain quite different proportions. Therefore, the Dialogue will submit a package of amendments, which have several elements, and we will try to approach the budget of fair and green Hungary at least from this starting budget, which your Finance Minister has submitted to Parliament. The Dialogue proposes that the 150 billion of Rosatom's investment planned in Finland, for example, for the same reasons, as a result of the Russian aggression against Ukraine, will not be built, but Lőrinc Mészáros's companies will make good money instead of a project, this year or next year, in 2023. Let us spend a significant amount of this, up to 100 billion in scale, in support of the non-refundable energy efficiency modernisation of homes. I would like to note here that every local government, every district in Budapest, has a recurring problem that either the municipal-owned residential houses, the private houses, the condominiums, or the garden houses, obviously, where there are no condominiums in smaller settlements, they cannot help with energy efficiency renovations, and there is hardly any state resources for this. In the past, the European Union has already given Hungary money for this at some point around 2012-13, if I remember correctly, in the order of some HUF 3000 billion. At that time, because of the powerful intervention of János Lazarus, it was not possible to spend it on private property, condominiums, or municipal dwellings, but on all kinds of public institutions. I think that if we have just said on the part of KDNP that the good energy that we are not using would be a priority in the energy-efficient renovation of homes during a climate crisis, because we also know that some of the CO2 emissions and air pollution in cities also come from inefficient, inadequate heating. This could save a lot of money. We're not talking about people freezing in their homes. No, that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about getting the right temperature by not heating the street, and we should be spending a very large amount of money on this for the government, obviously years in advance, in a long-term program. Let's just say they had 12 years to do something about it, but it didn't really work out. We would also like to spend about 30 billion to address environmental damage. Unfortunately, we still do not have sufficient application of the polluter pays principle in Hungary, and there are a lot of environmental damage in this country that lasts decades, even if we are thinking about eliminating various polluting industrial sites, which have still not been implemented. It would be very important, and it would be worth at least 5 billion to support environmental and environmental civil society organisations, which are often involved in public tasks, and to finance their tasks in the framework of a predictable, transparent tender structure, but paying attention to the fact that very often these civil society organisations carry out quasi-state tasks. Speaking of civilians already performing public tasks, I would like to say again how the national animal protection fund should be created, so that it should appear as a separate package in the budget, and I think it would be worth spending 8-10 billion forints in order to finance more animal protection tasks. On the one hand, there are also a large number of civil society organisations that carry out public tasks in the field of animal protection. They need regular tender support. It would be very important to ensure that animals, whether in animal protection or in other cases, are properly placed and kept. Here I think of large animals, including grazing animals, horses, sheep, donkeys, and other farmed animals. There are two such places in the country, on the one hand the Dharma Horse Refuge Foundation and on the other hand the Bottyán Equus, which can preserve horses. You don't fund them either, this budget, or the Agricultural Ministry, is not going to help them, even though it would be a very important animal protection task. It is important to spend it on the modernisation, control, visualization, neutering. I could tell you a long time, but there wouldn't be enough time left for anything else. So we are proposing the establishment of a national animal protection fund. Then it is very important to improve the state of the large lakes in the country. There's Lake Tisza, Lake Venice, Lake Fertő and obviously Lake Balaton. On the one hand, it would be very good not to spend a lot of tourism resources on investments that harm the environment. What we see is that it is practically destroyed, on the one hand in Lake Balaton, the reeds are destroyed, the beach is destroyed, a lot of investments are built directly on the shore. I'm referring to the destruction of the high shore of Balatonaliga only in the absence of time. [[11.00]] I believe that investment in tourism could also be made in such a way as not to destroy the natural environment, which is, in effect, a threat to the future of these waters. So don't spend money on them, but, for example, on reconstruction works, for example, in the case of Lake Venice, money should be spent on an efficient and close-to-natural solution to water supply. It would be very important to raise funding for national parks. The national parks of Hungary protect and guard the natural areas. I think that less than 13 billion forints currently planned are not enough for this, and we are proposing to increase the personal and operational framework of national parks. They really are the keepers of our natural heritage. The state of the plumbing in Hungary, the reconstruction of the entire water utility network, would also be a very big problem. Unfortunately, due to your reduction in overhead costs and the landline tax, maintenance and improvements are often delayed. This is a problem throughout the country, but for example, in the agglomeration in Budapest it leads to specific water shortages or poor quality drinking water. As an example, Érd or Pilis, where they often experience brown, sedimentary water flowing from the tap, because there is no money to buy a cleaning equipment. A fund should therefore be set up quite simply, from which they also support the reconstruction of the water utility network year after year. It is very important, and others have already mentioned the municipalities. Your budget is bleeding out the municipalities with a disproportionately high solidarity contribution. I think that this should be reduced, which would help all municipalities. It would certainly be good for the capital of Budapest if it were not to happen that while in Tarlós' time they had to pay some 10 billion into the central budget, next year, according to your plan, they would take 56 billion from Budapest; and they would expect the municipalities to fulfil their own tasks. Such a task for municipalities, for example, is road renovation. I mean, I worked for eight years as deputy mayor of a district in Zuglo, and I know that citizens complain about road renovations on a regular basis, but you don't leave money to the municipalities for that purpose. We propose that, on the one hand, at least 50 percent of the vehicle tax and 25 percent of the excise duty on fuels be returned to municipalities, specifically for road renewal purposes. Because now, isn't it, that what motorists pay in the excise duty on petrol, for example, is swallowed by you and cannot be used by the municipalities for road renovation? I would like to tell the drivers that, yes, we are protecting his interests, we want better ways, and we want the government to give money to the municipalities. In addition, since I mentioned Zugló, it would be extremely important for the municipality of Zugló to have an amount available for energy efficiency renovations, and I am also thinking of municipal housing. These are decades behind, and local governments will not be able to solve the energy-efficient renovation of these houses on their own initiative in the present situation. I would consider it necessary to use at least HUF 3 billion to plan the extension of Metro 4. This would be very important for Zugló to Bosnyák tér, but New Palace, XV. It would be important for the district to take you to the Polar Center. Obviously, the exact trail needs to be defined as experts, not me, but I'm sure that the large-scale bus load between the two districts and downtown could be reduced by extending subway 4. For example, it would be very important for Zugló railway station to be accessible, because there was such a cosmetic renovation, but it was not accessible, it could not be approached with a stroller or wheelchair; it would also be important to build noise protection walls. I will not go further, I have mentioned only a few examples of what a just and a green Hungary's budget would look like, with sustainability as well. Unfortunately, the draft you have presented does not know sustainability, but if the future of this country really is important to you, I would ask you to support the proposed amendment to the Dialogue in order to correct at least a small part of what has been fatally ruined in the last 12 years. Otherwise, we cannot support this budget. Please consider adopting our entire amending package and incorporating it into budget 2023. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-06-23-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In short, I would like to respond to five points in relation to all the thoughts made by Ms Rebecca Szabó. The first is this particular austerity budget. Allow me to say that I have the impression that opposition representatives had long thought before the debate on the bill, how they should describe the budget; it has been constantly said from yesterday's opposition side that this is a budget for austerity. But when we ask you to state in particular which measure affects Hungarian families, which would reduce the incomes of Hungarian families, we will not receive any specifics. Congresswoman, I respectfully ask you to say such measures. We know about the word "suppression" and we have learned over the last decades, we called measures that reduced pensions or wages, or reduced family support, or, let's say, extra taxes on families. These are not included in next year's draft budget law. That's the first thing I wanted to record. Second, the Congresswoman said that the state does not save itself. I would recommend that Congresswoman consider, for example, the 1281/2022. Government decision [[Szabó is pointing a document at Rebekah.]] I'd be happy to hand it over to you, which sets out the main areas in which the state is making cuts in expenditure. The 2023 budget, for example, if compared to the 2022 or 2021 budgets, will see that we have focused on wage preservation and, in many areas, on increasing, and we have planned very rigorously on operating expenditure outside it. So, please, when you're looking for measures that the State is implementing on its own, please take them into account. Not to mention that we have decided to slow down a number of state programmes. I would add that, when we talk about inflation, for example, taking back public investments, taking back works, is also a means of breaking down inflation. Why? Because in recent years, we have seen the demand generated by increasing household savings towards the construction sector, so much business investment, and so much public investment that the total demand exceeded the supply in many cases, I simply put it: it is difficult to find a mason, prices went up. By saving so-called private and making public investments later, the state is a saving measure, which, in our opinion, does not discourage economic growth, but, let us say, in the construction sector, hopefully prevents price increases, thus contributing to inflation. So I would like to ask that we look at the measures from this perspective: we must also pay attention to the budget, we must also pay attention to inflation, while at the same time maintaining the growth of the economy at a higher level. I mentioned the wages, that's the third point. The Congresswoman said that the wages of teachers, health and social workers should be increased. I am glad that you said these areas because you mentioned sectors where there was a wage increase this year. Or the congresswoman mentions restrictions. We know that there were restrictions before when there was an economic downturn and that the government reacted with austerity. In 2020, when there was a double drop at world economy level, as in the 2008-2009 crisis, for example, the wages of teachers or health workers increased; in 2022 as well. And the bill before you, in addition to the difficulties caused by the war, focuses on maintaining wages in all areas, and we are working to continue, for example, the wage increase of doctors in health care, and I hope that there will also be an opportunity to raise the wages of teachers. [[Rebecca Szabó: Nurses!]] Point four... [[Rebecca Szabó: Nurses!]] I hear you, Congresswoman. I would ask you to look at how the salaries of nurses increased many times in 2020, in the subsequent period and before, and compared to 2010, compared to cumulative inflation. I'm telling you from the top of my head, the health sector's overall wage increase has increased by 300 percent since 2010. The cumulative inflation is well below 50 percent. The next point is the fourth point I would like to respond to: energy efficiency, environmental protection. We agree with the objectives, Mrs President, there is no question, but if you think it is important to have energy efficiency and environmental protection, I think it is worth looking to Europe now. [[11.10]] Germany has often been mentioned as an example in terms of energy efficiency investments and the use of renewable energy. The latest news is that coal-fired power plants are off-line. I would like to point out that Paks II. 17 million tonnes of CO2 emissions would be avoided on an annual basis. I would like to draw attention to the fact that now, when we see the rise in gas and oil prices in the context of the war, it is of particular importance that cheap and we believe that nuclear energy investments can be made to reduce CO2 emissions. So, if we consider it important to protect the environment, reduce CO2 emissions and provide cheap energy for businesses and residents, then I think that supporting the Paks Nuclear Power Plant project is such a goal, such a goal to support energy efficiency and the protection of the environment. Of course, I agree with the congresswoman that we must strive for energy efficiency. I trust and ask opposition representatives to help Hungary access all the EU funds available from the 2021-2027 EU cycle. We want to use more than 30% of the recovery tool for energy projects and energy efficiency improvements. It is in our common interest that these often mentioned EU funds, which the Council and Parliament have already decided on, are actually available to Hungary. The last point is the bleeding out of the municipalities. I would not call it a bleeding out situation where, no doubt, Covid was a major task for a number of municipalities, thanks to all the municipalities who accepted the steps on common burden sharing, the government's and commercial bank funds increased by nearly 10 percent by the end of 2021 to HUF 1148 billion, and in the first quarter of 2022, this increased to HUF 1332 billion through local tax revenues. This is a HUF 208 billion increase compared to the first quarter of 2021. This is the sovereign and commercial banking stock, which does not include the European Union and state development resource in the accounts held by the Hungarian Treasury. So on the basis of the local authorities' own accounts, I simply cannot interpret the word "bleeding out." And what is especially strange is that when it comes to solidarity, solidarity between tax differences in local government is often attacked on the left. In the next year's draft budget law, the formula is that the more wealthy, better-mode municipalities must pay an amount that arrives in the municipal chapter and from which we finance the tasks of the municipalities. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] I hear an intervention from the opposition-led municipality. Please allow specific figures showing the solidarity contribution of some municipalities per capita: this is HUF 21 459 for Budapest, HUF 65 406 for Győr, HUF 56 534 for Székesfehérvár. I could list the figures, but my statement is that there is a formula that determines, according to the economic possibilities of the local government, who should contribute to the tasks of other municipalities and poorer municipalities. And if I am talking about a solidarity contribution, then I also have to say that, of course, every municipality, whether richer or poorer, receives budget support for the tasks defined by state, law and law, with the same support for all tasks in Budapest, Fehérvár, Győr or other cities, municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The last speaker in the first round of speakers was Mr Imre Ritter, German national representative. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-31	[[???Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich heute im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten meine gestrige, 20-minütige Rede bezüglich des Gesetzentwurfs Nr. T/152 über den ungarischen Haushalt 2023 im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen fortsetze.???]] Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Please allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to continue today my comment on the draft central budget law of 2023, its nationalities, which started in 20 minutes yesterday. T/152. The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023 contains the following nationalities amendments compared to the original fiscal law adopted in 2022. First, in the case of 12 nationalities. 1. Annex XI is amended as follows: Chapter 30.31.1.1 The amount of operating expenditure for national minority professional support was reduced from HUF 3 billion 299.5 million in 2022 to HUF 3 billion 149.4 million, i.e. HUF 151.1 million. 2. The XLVII. Chapter 2, Section 2.1.7. of the Economic Fund The operating edition of the box for investment, renovation, tendering, was returned with HUF 295.1 million, with the same amount as the XI. Chapter 30.31.1.4 operational expenditure. It's okay. 3. Similarly, the Economic Protection Fund 2.1.7. Accumulation expenditure The sum of HUF 2 billion 703.7 million in 2022 was reduced by HUF 700 million, which was justified because this is HUF 1049/2021. [[ANNEX II 12.]] According to paragraph 4 of the Government Decision No 4 on measures to renovate the church of the former Slovak-speaking Evangelical Church, this framework was raised on a one-off basis in the draft budget law of 2022, i.e. this reduction is in order, and the remaining balance, reduced by HUF 700 million, was returned to HUF 1 billion, HUF 654.9 million out of HUF 2,7 million. Chapter 30.31.4. However, with the difference of HUF 348,8 million, this appropriation has also been reduced. On this basis, it can be concluded that the support of the 12 nationalities was reduced by HUF 151.1 million according to point 1 and the last HUF 348.8 million, i.e. by a total of HUF 499.9 million in the draft budget law of 2023 compared to 2022, the specific reason for which I do not know yet, there was no consultation with the Committee of the Hungarian Nationalities on this issue, nor were we informed about it. Secondly, in relation to Roma nationality, on the one hand, Article XIV of the Central Budget Act 2022. Chapter 20.5.1 In the draft budget law of 2023, HUF 411.2 million was transferred to the operating expenditure of the same heading, and the operating expenditure of the same heading was increased by HUF 135.8 million in the budget proposal of 2023. [[11.20]] Of course, the increase is not against us, but there has also been no consultation or information about this with the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. As a summary of the 13 nationalities, as a combined effect of the HUF 499.9 million reduction and the increase of 135.8 million in Roma nationality, this was reduced by HUF 364.1 million compared to the budget for 2022 in the budget proposal for the budget of.., I stress, in addition to the 700 million that we agree with and are okay with. Now, let me get to T/152. I would basically split it into two parts: the need for amendments that have a budget surplus and the need for amendments that do not have a budget surplus. I'd like to talk about the latter first, because I think that's what you'd rather hear from the Secretary of State. So one of our amendments is Annex 10 2.2. The definition of the specific amount of task-based support in the chapter is proposed to justify that, in the last two years, the average of the scores received between 2018 and 2020, instead of the specific task-based assessment system, was allocated to the hNEs, due to the limitations of the emergency caused by the corona virus. The 2023 bill would already restore the previous evaluation system. In our opinion, this is premature, because in the first four months of 2022 there were still numerous restrictions and, on the other hand, it would be a late, retroactive provision starting on 1 January 2022, which could have negative effects on countless local minority self-governments. Therefore, it is proposed that in 2023 we maintain an assessment based on the average score for the three years and that the previous item assessment or a more effective, more transparent score setting, which is already prepared, be restored only as of 2024 if there will be no substantive emergency restrictions in 2023. Secondly, Annex 10, Section I, Section 2 of the Promotion and Promotions Chapter, must be supplemented by a new point, 2.2.1: for the purposes of eligibility for task-based support, the transformed minority self-government should also be regarded as a municipal self-government. The justification for this is that the rules governing the establishment and payment of operating aid also explicitly state point 1.2.1 that, for the purposes of eligibility for operating aid, the transformed minority self-government should also be regarded as a municipal self-government for the purposes of eligibility for operating aid. However, this is not included in the task base. With this amendment, we will validate and clarify the place of the transformed minority self-governments in the law. Thirdly, in order to enable national minority authorities to use their media support more widely and account for electronic media, we propose to supplement point 3.4.2 as follows in Annex 10 to the 2023 Budget Act: The national minority self-government and the nationality media shall be liable to the aid referred to in point 3.2 for the operation of and the operation of the Nek, as defined by the Minister's instrument of support. Law 117-19. Article 12 (1) and Article 121-122 In order to carry out its public tasks, to improve the provision of public tasks and to carry out its activities, the 2004 II. Law 12 It may account for operating and stockpiling costs related to works covered by paragraph 3 of Section 3. All these amendments have been agreed with the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office for Church and Nationality Affairs, the Association of National National Governments and, of course, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, all opposition groups, and next week we intend to present the amendment on behalf of our committee. Once again, I would like to stress that these three amendments do not have any additional budgetary needs, but are intended to facilitate the determination of aid so far, to facilitate more efficient use and to provide clear legislation. I would then like to turn to national initiatives with a budgetary surplus. As a first point, we would like to find out what justified the total reduction of HUF 364.1 million at the beginning of my comment today, why it took place, and if there is no specific, clear reason for this, we respectfully request that this be reinstated in the budget law No.23, as our tasks have not been reduced. Secondly, Annex 10 proposes a table of provisions and subsidies with the support of municipal and regional minority self-governments and national minority self-governments with the following point 5:. Supporting the functioning of the municipal self-governments if the municipal self-government is maintaining a nationality public education institution or a nationality cultural institution; specific amount: 4 million 160 thousand HUF/year. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, At present, 60 municipal minority self-governments belong to the institutional maintenance group, with an annual cost of HUF 187 million and HUF 200 thousand. Based on this, the budget item 1.1.1 is support for the operation of municipal self-governments, the current budget of HUF 2 billion HUF 155.9 million would increase by HUF 187.2 million to HUF 2 billion 3431 million. The justification for the increase in the specific amount is that, as a result of the continuous changes to the law of the last few years, 60 municipal self-governments have taken over the rights, property management rights of more than 80 ethnic public education and/or ethnic cultural institutions, as well as the property rights of the building, building and movable property of the public education institutions from previous maintainers and owners. Taking over maintenance and ownership rights represents a great deal of extra work and objective, concrete additional costs for the institution-keeping hnös, which fully justifies increasing the amount of their operating aid. This therefore concerns the 60 institution-supporting hnös, and we do not intend to change the amount of operating aid for the further municipality of 2105, which is not an institution-supporting municipality. The third theme stems from the relationship between local and regional authorities and municipal national and regional national authorities. The 1993 LXXVII on the Rights of National and Ethnic Minorities, which calls for a national self-government system to be established. Since the creation of law, and this has not been changed by the Act CLXXIX of 2011, the Law on the Rights of Nationalities, or by the letter of the Act, the municipal and municipal self-governments are equal parties, and there is no subordination relationship between them. Unfortunately, this is only in the letter of the law, but not in reality. One of the most significant tensions and persistent problems between municipal authorities and municipal self-governments is that the law makes the financial, accounting, tax, internal control and other tasks of municipal and regional self-governments the responsibility of the municipal authorities and the county authorities. At the same time, it does not provide any support for those with a separate office and, for the common offices, it is now outdated with a minimum multiplier and provides only unadjusted specific support for more than a decade. [[11.30]] Therefore, in many cases the municipal authorities consider municipal self-governments to be a nuisance. The municipal self-governments are prisoners of the law, because they have no choice but the office of the municipal authorities. If anyone might think that I have even the slightest bias on this issue as a national minority, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the vulnerability of municipal self-governments in this respect has also been clearly identified and stated by the State Audit Office in the so-called one-stop shop of hundreds of local governments and national self-governments. It can also be traced back from the SAO's summary report that in almost 75 percent of their findings on the activities of municipal self-governments, the local government was condemned, i.e. the local government did not fulfil its obligations under the law in relation to municipal self-governments. I would like to stress that we do not want to influence or take any position on the part of the NEB in the professional and political debate on whether or not the various subsidies and their own revenues for municipal authorities are overall sufficient or not. I have my opinion as a professional, but I'll keep it to myself, if I may. I would also like to state that I do not know how, on the basis of what calculations, when and with what legislative purpose a minimally recognised correction factor has been determined and introduced for the common offices on the basis of the number of municipal self-governments operating in settlements holding the common office for the calculated basic number. I looked back at the budget laws until 2013, and I am sure that the weightings have not been amended since then. Only once, in the last year's fiscal law, two new categories were set up, namely from the case of the previous 1-3 municipal self-governments, where there was a multiplier of 0.04, the case of 0-1 municipal self-governments with zero multipliers and, in the case of more than 4 municipal self-governments with a multiplier of 0.07, this group became the 9 or more municipal self-governments with the exception of a new 0.1. It was the only minimal positive change I've found in the last ten years. In Hungary, I became one of the first tax advisors, then tax expert, and as an auditor with a budget additional rating, I worked quite a lot as an expert for municipal authorities. Believe me, I'm at home in this area from the other side. It is therefore quite obvious, without starting to include detailed justifications and calculations, that, at the common offices, the multipliers established for at least a decade ago to finance the performance of tasks related to national self-governments are now completely unrealistic, even if they were absolutely realistic ten years ago. Because, as I explained in my comments yesterday, fortunately, the support of the local and regional self-governments has increased about six times over the last eight years, as a result, of course, if not linearly, but multiplely, the work related to the provision of financial, accounting, internal control and other tasks has also increased. The task is clear: any settlement, whether autonomous or with a joint office, which has one or more municipal self-governments, should receive a differentiated, realistic, direct, direct direct support, based on the number of municipal self-governments, for the fulfilment of the statutory tasks of the local government, whether otherwise provided or guaranteed by the local government. This is the only way to eliminate this dependency, subordinate, vulnerable situation, which has existed for nearly three decades, and which is often humiliating to nationalities, with an objective legal and financial basis. What specific and annual support needs this requires, and I would like to talk about it in my speech tomorrow, at least until then, the figures will no longer bother anyone, and you will feel free to think about this situation and the possible settlement of this. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause.]]
u2022-06-23-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor first to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-33	Mr President, Dear House, There is a strong temptation to respond to Mr Secretary of State, who, by the way, reacted fairly to Members. The wage increase of health professionals is very difficult to imagine in a health package that spends essentially four percent more resources than before. Even the government itself accounts for 5.2 percent or 5.4 percent inflation. Overall, it is therefore difficult to include in this package a significant increase in the salary of health professionals. So their own numbers reveal these manifestations of the government. But I would like to share two very important points with you. On the one hand, I was very pleased with the fact that last year the government had finally begun to work towards a solution, but this was not at all complete. In the case of maintenance fees which Jobbik has proposed, the Hungarian State, Hungary, should advance the total amount of the outstanding amount in any event in the child's sphere and as soon as possible, and then from those who do not pay the alimony, Hungary should try to recover it. I understand that this risk is somewhat shifted to the Hungarian budget, but it can substantially alleviate the problems of families raising many children. We are therefore interested in the government's position on this. Just as we are submitting an amendment in the family allowance sphere. Here we did not hide that we were planning not only to double, since about half of the value has evaporated over the last ten years, but we would make this amount available through a family card construction. The family card, on the other hand, could only be used to purchase child-rearing articles and basic foods. We are interested in what the government's position regarding the family card is, so take the very serious decision that these amounts can be used strictly and signed only in the interests of the child. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-06-23-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to correct Ms Rebecca Szabó's statement. Less energy use hasn't even been mentioned on my part, this project is very welcome to the Dialogue. I was talking about increasing energy efficiency and its importance in the modernisation of residential buildings, and I said that unused energy is an environmentally sound thinking. I think that the difference between unused energy and less energy use is appropriate for an ecologist and biologist. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Lajos Kósa is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-37	Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to clarify or, rather, correct the comments of my fellow Member Rebecca Szabó. He spoke about the solidarity contribution in the case of municipalities, and said that if the solidarity contribution was left behind by the municipalities, the municipalities would be better off. The fact is that nothing, because in the same way the solidarity contribution remains in the municipal system, only from where the business tax is higher, the system takes away and gives it where there is little business tax. [[11.40]] In many cases, the ability to generate business tax is not attributed to the management of the municipalities. I think it is quite obvious that Szamosanyalos' abilities of this kind are completely different from those of Debrecen or Győr, and this could be classified for a very long time in the 3200 municipalities, compared with the pair. Solidarity points out that where there are necessarily more opportunities, infrastructure, more labour, educational institutions and other industrialisation factors are more favourable, there is obviously more business tax and should be placed where there are also all kinds of needs, but they cannot install industry or have much less opportunities. However, what I would like to make clear is that if we imagine this as excluding the solidarity contribution from the system, we are opposed to the European Union's tax policy directive, because it is a local tax, it can only be spent on local use. So central programmes, such as central road development, cannot be financed because we are failing this tax, because it is a type of consumer tax, we are counting on traffic, and only one can be charged, the VAT. We can keep that in the system because it's a local tax. This nature, if eliminated, could have fatal consequences because we are failing this type of tax.
u2022-06-23-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. That concludes the two-minute speeches. The second round of speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, representing Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-39	Mr. President. Dear House, On my count, I'm taking part in the 33rd budget debate in Parliament, which is such a jubilatory occasion. The 33 is a beautiful number, and I have said it several times, but I would like to record this in order to make it clear that there is no greater number than the budget, but otherwise, according to the logic of mathematics. So there's a bigger number than any number, it's a more important basic truth in the budget, but also in the world of mathematics. Another starting point, very important axioma is that more is more than less. Even folk wisdom says that sometimes less is more, not that sometimes more is less. But it is important to say this because there are epic signs in the budget. I could also draw a nice curve in a historical overview: . Blood stream is going to flow in the countryside. József Torgyán said in a budget debate, so that the robbery, the looting, the destruction of the system, the withdrawal, the collapse, all of which can be said, but that they mean nothing in budgetary terms, that is for sure. It's nothing else. When I hear things like that, so I wouldn't argue with them, if I may, because it doesn't have any sense. Rather, I would like to say that the budget is perhaps one of the most important laws in the country, which will take place every year. The other is the closing account, which, by the way, is even less interested than the negotiation of the budget law, which is weird because we also know from family farming that it's okay that we planned on how much we're going to spend, but it's okay if we end up seeing how this is done, there's money left, there's no money left. However, there is no great interest in the debate on the budget law, which is thoughtful if we interpret the work of Members as being involved in the debate in some way. Another general comment is that I have seen basically two types of budgets here over the last long period, and I myself have been conducting budgetary management as mayor for 16 years, so I have some insight. The two main types of budgets are: one of them is when you can say that we are multiplying the budget for the previous year with no particular intellectual achievement, with some multiplier, and then we say that it is the new one. This can be done, by the way, when the system is broadly prosperous, the economy is growing, for various reasons we do not want to have a cost conflict, it is a situation where we are better off because there are various uncertainties in the system, and then we see how to react to it. So this is not necessarily a problem in itself, there is such a budget, but there is no doubt that the budgets that set out a clear direction are much better, so they have preference, they point to something. Think about it. In the life of the family, there are times when we usually don't change anything from month to month, because things are going well, or we don't have the opportunity, and then we farm normally. But then one day, the moment comes, and we say in February, it's good, we go on vacation in the summer, so then every month, we save money for that, and then we decide what we're gonna do. And this is important, so the target for each budget is important. I put this forward because it is very important, this budget has a perfectly clear direction, and it cannot be taken away from it: maintaining and strengthening the family support system, keeping pensioners and pensioners at the level of appropriations paid to pensioners, protecting their value, protecting their health, increasing the defence budget. So here's a clear direction. I'm not saying that this cannot be argued, I'm sure, and I'll forgive you that having a higher number than all numbers is not a particularly great intellectual effort, if we say that there is no matter which area, social expenditure, road construction is HUF 15 365 billion, and we need more than HUF 50 billion. So this is the case where, for a budget debate, when a Member is awakened from his sleep, he can talk to him because he looks at a number, says that in 2003, the Hungarian Defence Fund's budget is HUF 842 billion, so I think we should have 900, so I've already completed my homework. So it's very difficult to do with what they say about the budget, unless there's a special reason or something really important, that I'm looking at appropriations here, and then I'm saying I need more than that. More importantly, I think that if we talk about the budget, we start at the base. So let us discuss whether the main objectives that the budget sets in this situation, under the specific conditions that the economy, public finances, the current budget means good or not, must do something else, set a different direction. I claim that these set goals are good and must be supported. So: maintaining and strengthening the family support system, keeping the amount to be paid to pensioners at a level and correcting inflation, i.e. keeping them at a level in real terms, if we can always judge this in the light of economic growth in the second half of the year, then increasing it, protecting jobs and protecting incomes, protecting public finances and increasing the defence budget. I think they're all right, and you can argue very well with all of them, and I just want to talk about the defence budget, because as chairman of the Defence Committee, I would like to back it up a little bit, although the war may be going on in our neighborhood today. But it is not necessarily, so it is worth considering why, what makes it necessary to develop the defence capacity of the country at this scale. By the way, someone could say that in 2014 at the NATO summit in Wales, the Government of Hungary made the commitment that defence spending would reach 2 percent of GDP in 2024. In addition, we know that this represents an increasing nominal amount, as GDP has recently increased extremely significantly and we started from a very low level, so the growth is even more spectacular, because at the time of the Welsh summit we did not reach 1.1 percent of GDP. They say that old sin has a long shadow. In 2004, under the Medgyessy and Gyurcsány governments, such a continuity bill was passed by the Parliament, which ended the compulsory army. [[11.50]] Let us now overlook the fact that we have abolished a 135-year-old institution, but it was very important that this decision was taken by Parliament in the light of the fact that it had a clear vision for the development of forces, which was about the need for a country's defence of a small number of but contracted soldiers, and to complement it with a very significant voluntary additional reserve stock, and there are some countries that set a good example that, by the way, the protection of the country can function well. There hasn't been a war in Switzerland for hundreds of years, and this is the system in Switzerland, by the way. They have a relatively small army of contract staff, and all young people in Switzerland are obliged to take part in military training to the extent that otherwise, who are involved in training, also keep uniforms and even military equipment at home and can be mobilized at any time, because they implement a trained and knowledge-based training system. But this is how it works in Finland, Sweden, and it could not be said that the Finnish or Swedish defence capabilities are seriously impaired. So there was a system, a concept in Hungarian, which Parliament then said yes to. Yeah, but what happened? At the same time, it was quite clear that the equipment of the Hungarian Army and its structure had become obsolete at that moment, because we didn't need so many barracks, we didn't need so much equipment, so obviously we need to improve or modify the equipment and weapons of the military. But this amendment was successful when someone looked at it, for a long time I thought it was just such a figure of speech, but the fact is that statistics and facts support the claim that the 2004 Defence Development Programme hit Hungary's defence capabilities to a greater extent than the Trianon peace dictator. So it meant a bigger decommissioning programme in reality. We've lost our artillery ability. The artillery skills. We basically discharged the artillery. We sold Acacia and Gvozgyika self-propelled cannons and taracks for incurrency. For the record, these tools are now being used in the news in the Ukrainian-Russian war, which is now being used for a great deal of time. I'm not saying they're state-of-the-art, because they're obviously NATO standards, they're different, so in Gvozgyika you can't use the NATO ammunition that you've been using, but there were. We sold it. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] I mean the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-governments of our armored transporter's fighting vehicles are modern BMPs, obviously PSAs couldn't be used much earlier, so it's pointless to talk about it. The BTR stock, which in its original form was not designed to carry out open battlefield tasks, remained, but was designed to carry out urban stroms and urban street fights, mass dispersals, and the fight against terrorists. It was an arsenal launcher that was the BTR, so it's not what we use it to fight in an open field, and they're not fit to do that. In addition, they were significantly obsolete, which remains. Basically, we lost our hard-flying fleet, we only developed it a long time later through the Gripen, we sold all our helicopter stock, we sold all our tanks, we got rid of them. By the way, Iraq, which was shot up there in the Iraq war, so there's not one of those T-72 files left, there's not a hundred of them left in Tatan. Yeah, well, our handgun stock is definitely outdated. Last time Rambo was shooting RPG-7s, it was more of a joke category, as it was presented, but now it's closed. And, well, there's a lot of things about AK-47 or AMD-65, but it's not modern. Not to mention the fact that these guns were shot up when I was a soldier. Now, every gun has a deadline for how long it can be fired, because after that, it changes from the load to the caliber of the pipe so much that you can't fire accurate shots, because I'm even happy if I hit the direction, but these are left for us. What happened in real life? In 2004, we listened here, and I too, recalling the Minister of Defence Ferenc Juhász, heard the nice sentences here, that many volunteers who were trained, were committed, who would not need to be kept in the barracks, but, if necessary, we could turn to them to protect the country. By 2010, we had 17 trained volunteers. 17! 17! With this we can say that when the Fidesz government took over government, I note, in the midst of an economic crisis and in the midst of a collapsing budget and economy, we must say that the military development programme and concept that the Socialist-Free Democrat government implemented at that time really decommissioned the army and there was nothing left. Nothing at all. Neither did the equipment of the contract stock ever hit any scale; then we joked about the fact that from a united B-Central Street battle of a Hungarian Defence versus Fradi-Újpest, I would prefer to bet on the combined team Fradi B-Central Újpest B-Central, because we were in such a state. No equipment, no usable equipment. And after the soldiers know that, so they face reality, because they're there, they know that from the M-locked BTR, from one of them, we're gonna get the part out of the other, and we're gonna put it in the other, so if 200 of the 300 files were operational, I'm gonna say a lot. In these circumstances, the motivation of soldiers is also said to be moderate. Now, there has been no war in Crimea in 14 but there has been no war, in 14 Hungary undertook to complete the 2 percent at the NATO summit. Here, let me just say that we started from 1.1 percent of GDP, I note, with a declining GDP for years then. However, let us remember the memorable sentences and translate what they mean. - Hundreds of tricks you don't need to know about. The hundreds of tricks you do not need to know about, the Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány said that he saved the budget from having to confess what is obvious that the country is bankrupt because of the budget. This, in connection with the defence budget, meant that, with a good and clever maneuver, I would quote the clever one here, among the defence expenditures, the pension payments of retired soldiers were included. Now, I don't have to say that it's okay, it's a budget budget increase for defense funds, but it's one of the hundreds of tricks that you have on paper, but I don't have to say that, from the point of view of defence capabilities, how pension payments for retired soldiers don't divide, multiply anything in the world. We started from here, and now we are at war, and the Hungarian government needs to strengthen its defence capabilities. It is quite obvious that the Welsh declaration that we talked about reaching 2 percent of GDP in terms of defence expenditure was not airtight. The budget has created this Defence Fund, for which we could again make a professional remark that, since the work of György Nasvadi, we know that these funds are always suspicious, because we create two things only if we want to play tricks, or if we want to underpin the budget with the budget's fully clear budget objectives and direction. The use of this can also be called into account, which is now a classic. So we remember that I participated in a number of budget debates, especially during the Gyurcsány government, when the funds completely dismantled the budget. [[12.00]] The trick was always completely incomprehensible from a budgetary point of view, if the Secretary of State still remembers that it is an open fund, which gives the impression that it is possible to spend an infinite amount of money because it is open from above, however, closed parentheses, it is not here, it shows it. I would be a little surprised, and I would even be very critical if we were to say that this is a top-up fund, because it is difficult to interpret from a budgetary point of view, but there is no doubt that, by determining the planned development of the 2023 Defence Fund, which means HUF 842 billion, we will otherwise achieve, at least in addition to the planned budget growth and inflation figures, the 2-percent expenditure rate, which I think is very good, and in this situation, absolutely! It would have been good already in 14 years, not to mention that it could be said that the Hungarian Parliament was fooled by the then government. We've disarmed the army, but they didn't do what they did. Now it's the reverse that's happening here: we're doing what we've agreed to do to increase our military capabilities. By the way, the priority objective, of course, in the HM chapter, is broken down into what we want to spend this on within the development of forces. A top priority is the development of soldiers' protective equipment, these are individual equipment. It is quite obvious that the priority is the artillery capability, the strengthening of armored, armored and team transport capabilities, the strengthening of our rotating wing capability, and, of course, the ability to express itself in relation to rigid wings, i.e. aircraft, must be maintained. But there is something else that we tend to embezzle, which is a mistake, namely that if a country develops its military forces only in such a way, I will not mention the technical scene here, because it is a general truth that it does not have any kind of interpretable defence-industrial capacity, it is extremely half-sided, because the fact is that if there is any conflict and there are difficulties in logistics, then what can be done. The situation is very sad here too, because earlier, by the end of the 2010s, we reached the point that in Hungary only one understandable weapon was manufactured, the Bitter Works had four-shot rotary rubber projectile 14 self-defense pistols. I'm not saying it's not bad for a burglar, but I wouldn't be able to categorize that as a military industry, beyond the fact that this weapon of the Bitter Works is otherwise extremely popular and totally good against stray dogs. But if more than stray dogs come up against you somehow, there's a problem. The situation is indeed true, but in itself it is extremely tragic that at one time the Hungarian industry had military communication skills, we produced armored transport fighting vehicles, artillery tools, and we faced the fact that this was all nothing, nothing. In comparison, we may be developing in this area even faster than anyone would have expected, so I never dreamed that the Hungarian military industry would have put it in quotes, not in the military industry, but in the sense that the military industry, which was established in Hungary and partly owned by Hungary and partly by Germans, is applying from here for the Slovak armored transport vehicle tenders, and Slovakian newspapers also appeared that Hungary will equip the Slovak army with a huge question mark. There are obviously all kinds of historical resistances, so that sounds interesting. We wouldn't have thought of installing the Slovak army either, but otherwise this is perfectly normal, because the Hungarian government has been promoting military and military cooperation in the countries of V4, which is also working. And I would add that the military industry still has the advantage that, then it represents a high level of technology, a high level of innovation, otherwise competitive, and there is also a market for the military industry, so you can export various equipment here. Besides, not many people know it, but it is quite surprising what we owe to the military industry, such as margarine. Margarine is a war-force substitution product. During the Napoleon war, the French army's wages had to be paid in part in butter; there was no butter, and Napoleon gave orders to French military engineers to do something, and then this became margarine. But I can tell you that the Fanta is a German military industrial development, by the way, which no one knows. I'm just saying this as a matter of interest, so here there is a wide range of civilian innovations and industrial products leaking from the military industry. I'm not trying to say that the war industry is alive, because I think that if it's important to protect the country, it's important that people's physical safety is important, that it's important, that the war industry is important, and that's important, and then let's do it in a way that makes sense. And by the way, it's not just the production of Rheinmetall Lynx that's coming up here, but it's a series of military cooperations that can, of course, be criticized for everything we need AERO Vodochody and why we need Austrian artillery equipment, especially mortars, but, well, this is the military industry! The military industry not only consists in sewing our soldiers' protective equipment and clothing, but also in the military industry by cooperating with CZ, and now we produce small arms in full, along with ammunition, and we have export capabilities, and a lot of military industrial cooperation, with countries that are in a lasting alliance with us, which makes perfect sense and strengthens the security of the country. If this can be financed from 842 billion, then it is important in itself and it is a very important issue or the use of this amount that goes beyond itself, because it is quite obvious that if we are not completely clumsy here, this also means an additional demand in the Hungarian economy, which has its own benefits in Hungarian economic growth. So, overall, I would like to say, fellow Members, that, if nothing else, the development and strengthening of defence in this situation must be done, developed, strengthened, implemented. Therefore, I know that it is not customary to support the budget, nor can it be called into account, that the opposition usually does not vote in favour of the budget, but at least agree on certain chapters; at least that defence is important, at least that defence cannot be imagined without an army; and at least that the existence of an army without a domestic military industry is also unimaginable. This is already a national minimum from which you can negotiate anything, and then you can argue details, but there is no doubt that defence spending and the existence of the Defence Fund in the budget for this purpose, with this task system, I see that it is unconditionally eligible. And here, let me tell you a little bit about how this happens in everyday life. As a representative of Debrecen, let me say that Debrecen is one of the largest military cities in the country today, there is the largest number of garrisons, and, by the way, defence spending is also noticeably reflected in the city's budget, obviously. So I have to say that the so-called multiplicative effect of this spill-over is not covered by the budget, but it is understandable, so let us not forget that when the defence builds a railway passage, it is also used by others. They're building a railway passage so that tracked devices don't destroy the rails. Small, okay, but the city should have spent 25 million forints on developing the railway passage that is on the road to war, and the trains are also there. It's small, but there's a lot of small things in here. In the defense chapter, there are a lot of things, all kinds of defence sports, which are also used by citizens. So the sports facilities used by the military to train soldiers have also been opened to the Debrecen residents of the area. Well, why can't we run on that recortan for the people on the street next door that the soldiers are practicing on anyway? [[12.10]] So these are little things worth counting on the spill-over effects of the budget when we talk about it. So, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much support this proposal and I would like to advise you that we may agree on the minimum standards of defence, and that we should talk about whether we are right in the details, or whether we can already check the implementation well at the committee meeting. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-23-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This is the budget where spinal surgery takes more time than building a stadium. When the government was formed, it was clear what its priorities were. Lajos Kósa is right that the government's activity shows the priorities, so there is no mention of education, health and environmental protection in the name of any ministry, so the future is missing from the names. This shows your priorities. You're not building the future, you're trying to get away with it. But what can be expected of a government that distributes education into at least three ministries, and one minister chases another if there is anything to say about the general future of education. Your economic governance is well demonstrated by the fact that in 2010 there was a EUR 7,25 kuna, now there was 7.5, but there was 25,4 Czech kroner, now 24,74, and the Czech koruna was strengthened. By the forint, we can say that there was a euro of 260 HUF in 2010, but now we also hit 402. It's not a war problem, it's not a government, it's not war inflation, as you're trying to make it look, it's a deliberate waste of money for the past 12 years that you've done, it's a result of bad governance. You have put together a budget to help the rich, it's a austerity budget, no matter how many times you try to disprove it, it's a austerity budget. You are not dealing with the length of waiting lists, but with the benefit of NER-linked companies. You're not working with the local governments, you're doing social consultations, you're just doing soccer box meetings. Even the Fidesz mayors look incomprehensible and ask the mayor of Székesfehérvár if it's okay, but why don't they agree with us when they make any changes. The Fidesz mayor of Tab specifically puts it this way: In three months, the soil will burn under everyone's feet. Yes, Your Honour, even under your feet, because people will find out that you have deceived them badly. In Austria, the government is trying to cooperate with the municipalities, and they have already provided support at the time of Covid. You're hijacked, and now you're giving people an incredibly large aid package, which would also be more money if you hadn't spent unnecessarily on a lot of things. You deceive the population when you talk about only taxing the corporate sphere. All forints have been passed on or will be passed on. å Humpty circus, world number! , Honourable Government, when it is said that an extra profit of a loss-making company is being taxed. You know what I mean? There will be no extra profit in a lossy company. The circus director would be proud of you. But let me tell you one thing. Remember, they announced that they would stop building materials from increasing. It's been great. Since then, construction prices have been even higher. The same is true when you say that you will stop the transfer of the tax. Once they failed, they went down to the locker room when they tried to stop these processes. Meanwhile, the five-year government debt goes at a rate of 9%, placing a brutal burden on the budget of the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, As Parliamentary representatives of Elizabeth and Terézváros, we have tabled a number of budget amendments for residents, in case the Fidesz faction also believes that it is worth, let us say, supporting the renovations of the condominium; not to make them more beautiful, but to be able to work with less energy. You know, you'll have to import less gas, and that'll be good for the country. Prior to this, a significant part of Budapest was excluded from the program "Home Gay" because only the houses built after 1947 were offered an invitation to tender. Don't do this now. I have tabled a budget amendment for the renovation of municipal dwellings, since housing should indeed be a fundamental right, so it would be possible to take a substantial step if you were to support the renovation of municipal dwellings. If you believe that housing is important as a fundamental right, then you should support this issue, generally provide resources to all municipalities. Greening. For you, greening only means stealing the squares of Budapest. I would like to ask you to create another dictionary, not to take these spaces, but to give substantial support to the municipalities for greening. I have tabled a proposal for amending the budget for schools, for the development of digital education, because, unfortunately, the digital education that you have been developing for a very long time with a great deal of money with a government commissioner, everything, has been jammed, my fellow Members, honourable government. I asked you to return the proceeds of the party district to the residents, give more money to the Péterfy Hospital, to the building of the Hunyadi Hall or to the development of the downtown precinct. But in general, I would like to ask for something in the name of the people of Erzsébetváros and Terézváros: there should be enough doctors and nurses at Péterfy Hospital, there should be enough children and general doctors, we would be happy if there were a sufficient amount of teachers but there were no. Everywhere we look, honourable Members, honourable government, problems just come up. This budget is not a budget for the future, it is a budget for chaos and austerity. In the developed countries of the world, the future is being built, and their budgets show substantial robotisation, preparation for artificial intelligence. You do not deal with this at all, and often you do not need a lot of money, you do not understand that drawing on the reform of the National Basics Plan will cause huge damage every year. In my budget amendment, I asked for HUF 5 billion to start at least these processes, do not stick their heads in the sand, because they do unbelievable damage. With regard to health, I would like to highlight only one area. Every year, I come to you with more written questions about allergics, about ragweed allergies, but today you deal more with the little train on the road than with a million and a half ragweed allergics. Therefore, with great respect, I ask that you deal with this story in substance. I've checked with state companies and they say they don't have enough resources to make the compulsory mow. You don't give enough money to your own public companies, and I don't talk about the need to support health care, and the damage to the national economy, the damage these patients pay for medicine every month, that's tens of billions. And you guys don't care about this at all. I have initiated that there should be substantial international cooperation, using EU funds for this. They're not doing anything, they're rejecting everything. Dear Government, You can do one thing if you want to do good with this country, and you don't want me to quote the Fidesz mayor in three months' time, and burn the soil below your feet: withdraw this budget, bring in a new one, because this budget is not about the future, it is the budget of the few in Hungary. Bring in a budget for many Hungary. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-43	Thank you very much. Before-before Mr. Vice President runs out of the room, I'd like to answer a few questions in Budapest. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh, pointing towards the presidential pulpit: I'm not running out!]]
u2022-06-23-44	Congressman, I order you to order. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Sorry!]] Mr. Vice-President, I must be replaced, and Mr. Vice-President has been sitting in his seat with great patience. [[Nacsa Lawrence: I'm sorry, I didn't know.]] So please.
u2022-06-23-45	I would like to answer a few questions with thanks to the ladies and gentlemen of Congress, because for a day and a half we have heard nothing from you but talk of austerity. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, what do you call the austerity that you did in 2008-2009, if you call it austerity in this budget debate? (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) How do you think that when you take away tax incentives from families, home-building programs, you don't call it austerity, you just call it adjustment? The austerity, ladies and gentlemen, was when you led family support in Hungary to almost nothing. [[12.20]] It was, ladies and gentlemen, the austerity when you took a month's pension from pensioners and reduced the value of pensions in real terms, honourable Members. The restriction was the closure of hundreds of schools in small settlements. The restriction was the removal of 16,000 active beds in the healthcare system, the removal of 16,000 active beds, and the placing of 6,000 medical workers on the side of the road. That was austerity, honourable Members, when a month's wages were taken from the public servants. The austerity was when taxes were raised, and the upper rate of personal income tax was 36 percent at the time. This is now 15 fellow Members. A young person under 25 got only 50 percent of his salary then. You took 50 percent of it from him, a young man under the age of 25. Now that young man gets 81.5 percent of his total salary due to tax exemptions and reduced contributions. It was, my fellow Members, the austerity when you caught it and charged taxes to companies; when the municipalities were constantly increasing their duties, but they reduced their resources and drove them into a debt trap. If you're here now, in this one and a half day, you haven't said the word "suppression" hundreds of times, not once. Are you calling this budget austerity when the budget for family support does not decrease or even increase when the 13th month pension is maintained, when the budget for education, higher education and health is increasing? Is that what you call austerity when you really took everything away from the Hungarian people? In 2008-2009 unemployment was 12%, now 3.6, honourable Members. Then why weren't they loud and talking about restrictions when Ferenc Gyurcsány submitted the 13th month pension law in Parliament? [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] He submitted it on behalf of the government, yes, he was Prime Minister, honourable Member. What makes you think that that indefensible government is called some kind of a fair fight for freedom and good economic crisis management, when, in this period, the current budget helps families, protects families, and, by the way, the development of the economy and, as Congressman Kósa said, it finds growing resources for the development of the army? Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that you are false on this issue, and you are using this word, this restriction, I understand that it is a kind word for you, you very much love this word, that it is austerity, but the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian people have forgotten this word because they replaced you in 2010 and have not allowed you back to government since then. The reason why the Hungarian people must have forgotten the word'suppression' is that they do not have to know these words in the next period because you were sent to the opposition in 2010 and that is where the Hungarian electorate has kept this situation since then, my fellow Members, because they have caused them so many historical crimes in 2007-2008-2009. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2006, when the world economy was developing, when there was an abundance of money, the Hungarian government deficit was the second largest in the world, and only the war-torn Lebanon was in front of us. The second largest government deficit in the year of the election was brought together by the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány. Then, of course, in Balatonősod, he admitted that the numbers had been falsified, that they lied to the Hungarian people, that they lied to the European Commission, and that they lied to everyone during that period, honourable fellow Members. Many raised the question of Budapest, including Rebekah Szabó, Vice-President; and I apologize, I did not know that she was in a hurry to lead the meeting, but I will follow it again this time. Many have raised the question of Budapest, which I think is a very important question, and it is time to talk about Budapest. It is especially important to help people with allergies. I do not know how happy people living next to the beekeepers are to see the gaz growing in the previously beautiful public parks, and there all kinds of wildflowers grow while walking the dog, walking with children, walking by themselves; for example, the allergics are glad that 1500 trash cans have been removed in Budapest, and therefore the remaining trash cans are draining out their eyes, my fellow Members. How happy are the allergics that the pointless closures, closures, and bike lanes make cars huff under their windows, when they could go on their way, and they shouldn't be stuck in traffic for hours, and what was 20 minutes before is a one-and-a-half-hour load for motorists, even now during school vacations? I don't know how important the allergic aspect is here, but apparently not the Budapest city administration, while you are constantly trying to increase the burden on people. They talk about traffic charges all the time. Recently, the LMP congressman, perhaps yesterday, admitted that he did, and you want to introduce the congestion charge, that's your plan. You want to introduce a minimum global tax. You all come up with plans that we told you in the election campaign that you would be preparing for a tax increase if you came to government, but now you can see that we were absolutely right. You completely rejected these charges at the time, but it would happen to raise corporate tax, raise personal income tax, raise congestion charges. When Rebecca Szabó puts it this way that your reduction of the rent, when she looks down on our efforts to save and maintain the reduction of the rent, when you say that this is a scam, and it didn't happen, when Klára Dobrev says that it didn't happen, that there was a reduction in the cost of the gas, when Peter James says that the fraud of the century is a reduction of the rent, then, my honourable fellow Member, listen to the German Minister for Economics, who ordered the second degree of alarm in Germany, and said that the price of the gas was so high, and that this is no longer a game, and that we need to prepare for serious trouble. Or ask if you have an acquaintance in the Netherlands what it's like to pay the electricity and gas bill ten times as much as the Hungarian people are paying right now! In Hungary, energy prices are currently the cheapest, the cost of overhead for families throughout the European Union. This is the institution that you look down on, which was attacked in the campaign and earlier when we introduced it. Since there has been a reduction in the budget, you have been working to ensure that this does not exist, that it does not exist, and now, in the Hungarian budget debate in 2023, you look down on the reduction of the rent and the effort that is clearly seen from the budget, what efforts we would like to make to keep it that way, so that families pay the lowest electricity and the lowest gas bills in Hungary, my fellow Members. Let's go back to 2019. The budget debate at that time was very instructive and the result. I have told you this several times, but I see from your amendments that it is no different now. In 2019 you filed hundreds of amendments against the extraordinary reserves and the National Security Fund. They would have spent many times on paper what was available at the time as an appropriation in the National Security Fund and as a reserve. Then you would have irresponsiblely scattered it for all sorts of other purposes and then arrived at the Covid pandemic in Hungary in March 2020. At the first moment, there was a reserve in the budget that could be reached where the first masks, ventilators could be ordered from, from where the Kiskunhalas epidemic hospital could be pulled up, from which it could be financed... [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: How many patients died?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You may laugh at the fact that you had to use the Kiskunhalas epidemic hospital less, and I am pleased, and I know that the congressman sitting next to you thinks that the disease is better than the vaccine, and we have listened to it from you, honourable Member... [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: I refuse!]] There was a reserve that the country was able to reach at a difficult time when the country had to be closed when the borders had to be closed, when extraordinary procurements were needed and extraordinary decisions were needed. If we hadn't had this backup, if we'd given in to your pressure and spent it for all sorts of other purposes, then we'd be standing there, sorry for the expression, and we won't be able to launch the protection measures that have saved hundreds of thousands of Hungarian jobs and lives. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to propose restraint to all those who wish to make amendments to such frameworks and important available funds. Of course, you can do this because you have the right to do so, but you should also bear political responsibility when these amounts, for example, go to such important and vital things. I think it is very important to highlight the support of Hungarian families. I have talked about the reduction in wages, I have talked about the 13th month pension, I have talked about the freedom of young people, but I think that it is quite clear and I would like to connect to my fellow Member, Mr Kósa, what is the edge of this budget, the tip of it, where it is pointing. Over the last 12 years, all our budgets have pointed to the need to protect families and support families. [[12.30]] I think it is a huge achievement, my fellow Members, and you cannot account for yourself for three of these years, that every year in the last 12 years the amount spent on education has increased, every year the amount spent on health care has increased, and every year there has been an increase in the amount of support for families, and every year there has been an increase in the amount spent on pensions. It's a huge achievement. I understand that you do not like to acknowledge these results, and you often argue with reality, the facts do not interfere with your insight, but I do think that we should record these results for ourselves, be proud of it, and work on the fact that the budget of 2023 looks like this, so that the 24-year-old, 25-year-old and the 26-year-old also look like more money for education, health, pensions and support for families. Forint 3225 billion is the amount available in next year's budget to support families. Three and a half times as much as it was in your time. The amount that was available in 2010 in support of families for the last budget year you adopted was well below a thousand billion. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you know what you imagined of supporting families? You can get out of here, right? That was one of the sentences. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: That's not about families...!]] What was the other one? The fact that foreign currency loans can be borrowed, fellow Members. It was your offshore knight's central bank chairman and your parliamentary majority who did nothing to get this out of Hungary; and we were able to protect them, we were able to pull them out of this trouble, and it is therefore a huge relief that the foreign exchange ratio of the Hungarian family's credit stock has gone down from sixty percent to two percent. This is a great thing, fellow Members. I understand that you do not think this is a result of the low foreign exchange debt in families, households, but I do think that this is the result. In the next period, there will also be more than this year's amount of money for families. All programmes are not only maintained or extended, but also the amounts that can be used to support families. In a reversed situation, when there was a difficult economic situation or environment in Europe, you were the first to draw support from families. The tax relief of one and two children, the tax relief of three children, has been reduced, interest-supported forint loans have been abolished, housing programmes, home creation programmes have been abolished and the risk has been reduced from three to two years. I don't know why you have this gut reflex, that you always have to attack families, when there's a problem, there's a difficult economic situation, why you have to flush the kid, why you have to pull the tax allowance, why you have to pull the home creation program. Thank God, we can say that since 2010, a number of elements, perhaps the faction time frame, would not be enough to tell you how many elements the family support system has expanded, and we have extended the programmes that are now running out, and we have extended the home renovation programs. Not as it expired, we started to lead it out, because the important thing is that Hungarian families receive the subsidies they deserve and receive, so that we can keep the Hungarian families safe. That's why there was a payback for families raising children. The government has never done this in the middle of a crisis, when families had to touch their reserves during a Covid epidemic two years ago, we returned personal income tax to families raising children. It's a huge achievement. Again, it is one of those things, and I now touch on the third, fourth point, which we could be proud of together, and only you cannot do so, because your fundamental policy is to oppose everything the government is doing. Everything's wrong. Obviously, it's a denial of the facts, they don't acknowledge those results, they don't recognize those numbers. We are not doing well demographically, but we have the highest rate of fertility in Europe. We're not doing well, but we have the highest rate of fertility. In Europe, we spend the most on family support in proportion to GDP. As the congressman said, you can always say a bigger number, only you spent 900 billion on it, and we spent 3225 billion next year. That is the huge difference, ladies and gentlemen, between who thinks about this, who is important for families to be safe, for them to receive support, and that the commitment of many children should not be the same as it was in your time. Third, fourth, fifth child's commitment was poverty under the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments. A huge historical crime, my fellow Members. We don't talk about this much. They always come out that you guys just canceled the 13th month's pension, the 13th month's wage, but the fact that you let the families get poorer and fall out of the middle class, I think it was a historical irresponsible thing that I think we've managed to make up for by now. Family-friendly tax and contribution benefits, such as family tax relief, tax relief for newlyweds, tax exemptions for mothers under the age of 25 or for mothers with four children will increase from HUF 609 billion to HUF 645 billion in the future, i.e. the amount of tax benefits will increase by 6 percent. It's the widest kind of family support. You have always attacked the family tax system. Ferenc Gyurcsány simply called the family tax system stupid, because the family type tax system is the widest. Here, 97 percent of the right holders make use of this. That's what most people get, who's entitled to family tax relief. I understand that what hurts you the most is that we are linking tax relief to work, and I understand that what hurts you most is that we are not building a welfare-based society, but a work-based society, but I think that this direction is right, and I am glad that the budget for tax relief is continuing to increase. Home-building programmes, housing subsidies such as CSOK or home-renewal support, tax refund support, or very helpful mortgage credit reduction aid; we will spend HUF 495 billion on these programmes in 2023, which is 28 percent and HUF 109 billion more than HUF 386 billion this year. You spoke several times, in part, when rightly, on housing issues, on housing issues for young people, newlyweds, family founders, you acknowledge the result that there will be more HUF 106 billion in next year's budget for home-building and home-building programmes. It's a result. More people get apartments, more families get to start their lives in a new-built home, and the children get there. I think that this is a programme that I think deserves a similar increase every year. I am glad that in a tight budget year, as it will be next year, there will be more and more of these programmes. For children's meals, HUF 100 billion will be available in 2023. This is 67 billion HUF more than in 2010. This is also a great help for families who need it, and not only during the school period, not only during the kindergarten period, but also during the holiday period, they get a meal for the children, during the holiday period, the needy people get full meals and a hot meal on the table. Then let us talk about textbooks, fellow Members. Remember the socialist-DK textbook policy? They privatized the textbook publisher for one of your friends, and they even guaranteed him a profit, so they wanted it on textbooks, they wanted to siphon out 30 billion forints of profits from the system on the students. Instead, what happens now? All children have free textbooks. All of you. For single children, for two children, for three children and for multiple children, for everyone. I remember the four of us being brothers and sisters, what a burden it was for my parents to buy the textbook for four children at the beginning of the year, say, in the mid-2000s. For four children, the full textbook package is always in a different class. It's a huge expense for a parent to get a textbook package at the beginning of the year. This is no more, because all children studying in Hungary receive their textbooks for free. Compared to this year, family support services, such as kindergarten, nursery, camping, protective service, will grow to HUF 566 billion, or 15 percent more next year, of which the cradle budget will increase by more than 40 percent compared to this year's budget year. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the austerity. It is not the austerity of increasing the amount of family allowances, when spending on daycare is increasing, when educational expenditures are increasing, when healthcare expenditures are increasing, when there are tax incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, If that's what you keep saying, because that's what's been released from DK's party center, that everyone has to say that there's austerity, then you don't understand the meaning of that word. Or their memory is so selective that they do not know or remember the period 2008-2009. [[12.40]] Anyone who says this budget is a budget for austerity, when I have not talked about all the important areas, and I haven't even talked about military development, I haven't talked about a lot of other important areas, every important area gets more than this year, that budget is a good budget. I can give you a bigger number than any number, and you don't have to be a mathematical genius for that, my fellow Members, that if someone says a number, Szabolcs Szabó will stand up and give you a bigger number, and you don't need it, I don't know what it's like to be a genius. [[Szabolcs Szabó: I also know smaller ones!]] You don't have to. The congressman can do even smaller. [[Szabolcs Szabó: For example, the Prime Minister's salary!]] It's unbelievable. I do, however, think that despite the tight budget and the difficult economic situation, because we see that Europe is in great trouble, that there are dark clouds gathering on the skies of the economy, that there is an energy crisis, that inflation is high, and in such an environment, I believe that such a budget is indeed to be spared, my fellow Members. I wanted to respond to Rebeka Szabó, who said that we needed a spaying program. Forints 600 billion were for neutering in 2021. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: 600 billion?]] It was 600 million forints, sorry, 600 million forints for spaying. [[Szabolcs Szabó: You can say something smaller!]] I can tell you something smaller. There were 600 million forints in the last year for neutering; more than 15,000 animals were neutered during that period. This is all I ask of you as a closing point in the budgetary debate, that when Rebecca Szabó says that there must be a spaying programme because there is no spaying programme, it is very difficult to argue with reality. Ronald Reagan reminds me that the problem with liberals is not that they're ignorant, but that what they know isn't. And the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that reality is not denied in a budget debate, at least the facts are not denied. I'm sure you'll be able to list a lot of criticisms, I'm sure you could move them back and forth. Thank God, because of the wisdom of the Hungarian electorate, this is our job now, and the budgeting for next year is our job, not yours. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] We'd be happy to hear your opinion, just the facts, but don't deny the facts, the numbers that are the results that we should be proud of together. What we see from the budget of 2023 is that we can move our results further, and that the protection of families, the public health, the army and pensioners will all benefit from the next year's budget. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-46	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Ferenc Varga of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, in the next few minutes, to share with the House the proposals for amending the budget that I have tabled. Let us begin immediately with a proposal that concerns the constituency of my residence and is becoming an increasingly pressing problem in recent years. Dr. István Bugyi Hospital in Szentes is responsible for the care of between 100 and 120 thousand people. The construction of its operating block has been a topic in the constituency since 2013. In the period since then, it is said that no substantial progress has been made in the construction of the new operating block. In addition to all active patient care, the new building would include intensive care, trauma, urology, and ear and nose. Putting the block together with these classes would be cost-effective. It is important that a hospital responsible for the care of nearly 100 to 120 thousand people can compete with the other hospitals in the surrounding and even in the country. That's why I'm initiating the construction of a long-promised operating block, because people in and around Saints have the same right to heal under modern and safe conditions. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, CHAPTER XXI I call designer drugs the plague of the century. We have been familiar with this concept since around 2009 but, in the period since then, the number of drug users has been very high in segregations. We see that the authorities and the government are unable to take up the fight to reduce these substances, because despite the continued increase in the list of illicit substances, these measures cannot follow the new drug composition on the market. Designer drugs are much cheaper than alcohol, easily and quickly available, and can quickly turn their users into zombies. And unfortunately, more and more of these users are under 18 years of age, and even very childhood users. In these derelict, backward settlements, the use of drugs made communities dependent, destroyed families, and lost young lives all over the country. Based on this fund, I propose that the government establish a programme in which the National Police Headquarters can strengthen its drug prevention line with the involvement of civil society organisations. Get to all primary and secondary schools, and go down to the settlements with the help of civil society organisations, and try to inform young people about the dangers of drug use in an enlightening way, thus reducing the spread of designer drugs. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There are currently hundreds of segregations in the country, and in general, each of them has a high number of four - legged friends per household. Unfortunately, in many cases these animals are neither vaccinated nor neutered due to the social and economic environment of the inhabitants. They usually wander around in segregations in packs, which raises further problems, especially considering that they do so in the immediate vicinity of underage children and what health risks they have. The growing numbers of dogs continue to make things worse, and they also put a lot of pressure on shelters and veterinarians. I think this has to stop. That is precisely why I am initiating a national coverage programme for all segregations of animal vaccination and neutering, within which these animals would be vaccinated and neutered, thus eliminating any problems that arise. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa has just mentioned that yes, there is or has been 600 million forints here. I don't deny it, but it didn't affect the segregations, and if we look at it, I think it's the segregations that really have something to do with this case. So I'd like to see a program like this set up. My next proposal concerns the promotion of grandparents' guardianship, as the primary directive in the area of child protection is to ensure that children remain in their families, if not directly with their parents, but are socialised and raised under the guardianship of one of their relatives, such as grandparents. However, the government does not support grandparents' guardianship. If we consider how much financial assistance a foster parent receives, as opposed to an adopted child in a family, we can see that there is a difference between burning and earth, even though it would be justified for these families, since most of the government's current family policy does not apply to them. They can't pick up the village CSOK, in many cases they don't get preferential loans with several underage children in their household, even though they only raise their own grandchildren out of human and grandparents' love and duty. I therefore propose that the government expand its family policy in such a way that children who are adopted in the family, under the care of grandparents, can also benefit from the current subsidies. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important foundations for catching up the Roma population is for growing generations to gain knowledge and skills that ensure effective labour market implementation. So it is of great importance what knowledge they acquire in their primary and secondary studies. We need quality education. We need appreciation and support for teachers, as they are the ones who care for the future generation and are the ones who can give them the right knowledge. Today, the wages of a beginner educator in our country are roughly HUF 200,000 net, which is basically extremely small, but if we also consider that it is not certain that there are the same challenges facing a teacher in Budapest and a teacher in Szabolcs or Borsodi, then we can also see that these teachers are not motivated to teach disadvantaged children effectively. One of the pillars of catching up must be education. That is precisely why I am initiating a special wage for teachers in disadvantaged areas of the country, as they deal with disadvantaged children with special educational needs, most of whom come from poverty, who require much more attention than their peers, and therefore a teacher must invest much more in his teaching. [[12.50]] In my remaining timeframe, allow me to respond to what my fellow Member, Imre Ritter, has said. First of all, I would like to say that the issue of nationalities should, in my view, be a cross-party matter, which should not involve political parties, so I would like to do so with respect for my contribution. There was talk about the task-based support of national authorities to maintain the average scores for the following year. I recognise and support your proposal, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, only in terms of Roma minority self-governments, the task-based score of roughly one in three Roma minority self-governments has become invalid in recent years. We know that the average has such a nasty quality that what is zero is very low on average, and so this hundreds of Roma minority self-governments would be involved in a windmill fight if we left it this way. So I would like to suggest to you, honourable Member, that, in addition to leaving the average point calculation... I know that this involves a lot more work for those who, by the way, calculate the task-based scores, but let us give the national authorities an opportunity to get a score based on their real and actual work and not to give, God, or to choose a higher score. As you have said, this does not entail extra budget surplus, it does not entail any additional resources, it should only change the method. Furthermore, I am very pleased that in its proposal, I am returning to what I said here on 17 May, within the walls of Parliament, that the municipal authorities in which there are national authorities should be given more resources. So I can fully support you in this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-23-48	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Czerván of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The budget for 2023 is a budget for the reduction of overhead and defence, which has already been mentioned by several people. I would like to say a few words about another important area: agricultural and rural development, agricultural and rural development aid. In recent years, agriculture has faced a number of serious challenges, and farmers have had to endure in exceptional circumstances. It is enough to think of the corona virus, exceptional weather conditions, high prices of cereals, oil crops, fertilizers and energy, labour shortages or the growing environmental and climate policy expectations of society. This situation was exacerbated by the Russian-Ukrainian war. In response to the challenges, a number of elements such as efficiency and competitiveness, animal welfare, environmental and climate policy objectives, cooperation and generation renewal will be highlighted in agricultural policy over the next period. The specialty has developed and launched in 2021 the Renewal Region, renewable agriculture programme. Implementation of this will be the greatest task in the coming years. For the development of Hungarian agriculture, food industry and rural settlements there is an unprecedented amount of resources in the period 2021-2027. In fact, the government provides a maximum of 80 per cent of national additional funding for EU funding under EU law. In the period 2021-2027, under the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, HUF 3400 billion, under the second pillar of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. With regard to the pillar, HUF 4265 billion will be spent on the development of Hungarian agriculture, the Hungarian food industry and rural settlements. In the draft budget of 2023: the Agricultural Ministry HUF 220 billion, the EU's development HUF 545.5 billion, the National Fund chapter HUF 20.9 billion and the items appearing in the annex to the budget amount to HUF 511 billion, a total of HUF 1206.3 billion. Of this amount, about HUF 1076 billion can be spent on farmers' agricultural funding, which is complemented by the excise duty refund on gas oil used in agriculture of HUF 28-33 billion. This amount exceeds the planned amount in 2022 by HUF 245.5 billion. The main part of the increase is the additional resources set up for the rural development programme. Let's look at the major subsidies. In the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, i.e. direct subsidies, besides basic income support for sustainability, there is an agri-economic programme, support for young farmers, coupled support for production and redistributive, redistribution aid. In the case of these items, the budget shall count on the application of an advance or payment in instalments for the year, except for the agri-ecology programme. Within a HUF 34 billion budget of market support, HUF 11 billion is available to support the wine sector. The remaining HUF 23.2 billion is used to finance programmes that have been highly popular for many years. These include the national programme of Hungarian bee-keeping, the school milk and school fruit scheme, support for producer organisations and support for the prevention and eradication of certain animal diseases under the national programme. Dear Parliament, The financing of rural development and fisheries programmes in 2023 was set at HUF 454.5 billion, which exceeds the amount of HUF 220 billion in 2022. The common agricultural policy is set out in Annex II to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In its first pillar, the rural development pillar, in the period 2023-2027, remains eligible for all measures already in place and does not fundamentally change the structure of rural development aid. From 2021 onwards, Member States should aim to achieve a stronger environmental and climate objective compared to the period 14-20. Allow me to say a few words about national agricultural aid, which represents a hundred percent of the subsidies financed from the domestic budget. In the 2023 budget proposal, HUF 74.5 billion was set up, which includes the previous subsidy items. The aim is to maintain existing aid schemes and to operate them as efficiently as possible. Special attention will continue to be paid to the poultry and pig sectors which do not benefit directly from EU funds, mainly through animal welfare subsidies. An important element of the legislation on the transitional period of the common agricultural policy is that the titles of so-called transitional national aid granted under the Treaty of Accession of Hungary can be announced under unchanged conditions in 2023, which Hungary will definitely want to make use of. Support for the prevention and eradication of animal diseases and the disposal of animal carcasses remains, and the support for the control of the disease causing the golden jaundice of the grapes continues. A number of so-called de minimis aids are announced annually to support cattle, sheep, goats, beekeeping, rabbit, fish, meat pigeon, fruit, grapes, tobacco, spice peppers and various dried products. [[13.00]] The portfolio continues to support the establishment and operation of the field guard service, which is included in the budget for the following year. Also in 2023, an important objective is to improve the conditions for financing the agricultural economy by preferential lending instruments, and I am thinking in particular of subsidies linked to interest subsidies and guarantee premiums. There is an amount of HUF 1.3 billion available for farming, which contributes to the quality development of Hungarian livestock production and the renewal of its biological bases. Agricultural risk management and the national agricultural compensation system continue to work. In 2023, the increased producer payments and the expected HUF 6.4 billion additional HUF 6.4 billion budget resources will ensure the required state contribution so that the fuller payment of compensation needs can be achieved. The ice mitigation system is also in place and support for agricultural insurance is continued, as well as the crisis insurance system. For animal and plant compensation, HUF 9.8 billion is available, which exceeds the budget for 2022 by HUF 6.3 billion. Dear Parliament, Despite the exceptional circumstances, I believe that the planned resources and items can ensure a further increase in the efficiency of agriculture and an improvement in the quality of life in rural areas. That is why I ask you to support the proposal before us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-23-50	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Endre Tóth of the Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, A man's true character is revealed in a difficult situation. As long as you have a lot of money, as long as you're doing well, you don't have to make really hard decisions, but when the crisis hits, you're gonna tell me a lot about what you're willing to give up and what you're gonna stick to. There are those who are willing to give up almost everything at a time of crisis, even in a family crisis, just to ensure the future of their child, to leave money for the child to teach English, to stay for orthodontics, for college, and to do so even if parents have to give up, say, the restaurant or to go shopping or buying new clothes. But there are also some people who don't feel that way, and in difficult situations, they can't give up their own pastimes, their own needs for something more important, just sports betting, entertainment, shopping, and the child will earn their way to college and college at 18. Well, my fellow pro-government Members, you have put together this budget with the latter mentality. What else could justify that there will be no substantial wage increase for teachers next year, while Viktor Orbán will take home two million more per month? What else could have resulted in no compensation for the impact of price increases on the salaries of public service workers? What else could be a reason for neglecting climate protection and health problems while making pointless and rejected giant investments and digesting hundreds of billions of dollars, such as Paks II. or the Liget Budapest project. What other reason could there be for this budget to be set off at 30 billion, while still hundreds of billions of forints are being planned for government propaganda? What else could justify that when the extra-profit tax is introduced, NER companies, the oligarchs of NER, are left out of this circle, despite the fact that hundreds of billions of forints have recently been taken home from public procurement. Butcher and Garancsi, and the rest of the oligarchs, why don't you contribute to the Rehabilitation Fund? This budget is a budget of poverty, this budget is a budget of insensitiveness, because it does not hurt the sacred cows of the government, but it hurts the people's wallet, because 600 thousand Hungarians working in the public sector are waiting in vain for help and compensation in the threat of liberating prices, while the public sector leaders, the Prime Minister, no longer need to borrow a family loan if they want to enroll their children in Swiss luxury universities. You are hurting Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai and his government, and you are right and wrong, but one thing is for sure, when Gordon Bajnai took over the country, in view of the crisis, he took a single forint payment, while Viktor Orbán will run this country for 4.8 million forints instead of 2.8 million, regardless of the crisis. But now the Momentum faction has put a proposal on the table that could correct the mistakes of this budget. By rearranging only 5 percent of the spending, it would be possible to guarantee that the Hungarian people will not be left unaided in the crisis, so that the 600,000 employees of the public sector will not have to watch helplessly as their salary is lost. That is why we have established the welfare fund, the future fund and the health fund. With the establishment of the welfare fund, we propose a 20% increase in public sector workers' wages to compensate for the effects of the deterioration of money, which is in line with the demands of the Hungarian Public Officials, Public Servants and Civil Service Workers' Union. We also consider it essential to introduce one-off support for people in need and unemployed to compensate for the increase. The government cannot allow inflation to devour people's salaries and push people in poverty towards the horror of hunger and homelessness unstoppably. The government cannot abandon public sector workers because as employers, it is precisely a matter of setting an example for other employers of how they treat their employees in times of difficulty. You should also appreciate those who carry the country on their shoulders and ensure the safety of all of us, the wages of police officers, firefighters, teachers, hospital workers and social workers should at least be compensated for the level of inflation. We want to invest in the future through the creation of a future-protecting fund, with the support of education and climate protection. With a 50% wage increase, we would ensure real financial prestige of the teaching field and launch the Klebelsberg service housing programme, which would create affordable housing for more than a thousand young teachers and public service workers. Teachers can't afford to pay any longer, as more than 15,000 professionals are missing from education, and this number is increasing year after year. Even this summer, too, this shortage will increase to an amazing extent, if you, my fellow pro-government Members, refuse to make any promise to teachers that assumes that their working conditions and wages will be settled. The educator society has grown very old, 40 percent of the teachers are over 50 years old. The number of starters in 2018 was 6,000, which fell to 2 thousand in two years by 2020. This trend is amazing. It's very sinister. From this, everyone who is involved in education and sees what is happening there learns that beginners and the whole pedagogical community need an immediate wage arrangement, otherwise they will soon not be a physics and chemistry teacher in schools, but there will be virtually enough teachers, and people will have to spend money on special teachers in spite of paying taxes, in order to provide their children with an adequate level of education from each subject. Fellow Members! You have children, grandchildren, you certainly don't want such a future for them. But climate protection is also very important, we cannot let a year go by without spending substantially on climate targets and climate protection. Momentum proposes that, by renovating 100,000 homes in energy, we should finally take a big step towards reducing green electricity, reducing sustainable electricity and increasing the development of rail transport, we should be able to provide real alternatives for more and more motorists with regard to fixed road transport, thereby improving the air quality of our cities. [[13.10]] Finally, with the establishment of a health fund, we could throw a lifeline for our poor health care system. We want to achieve a 30% wage increase for hospital workers to ensure that health care is not caused by a shortage of professionals. With digital health developments, finally, the 21st century. We would like to move Hungarian health care to a century. It is also not a big budget line, but we believe it is important for all educational establishments to obtain an anti-allergic injection, which can save lives for allergic sick children. Our proposals only affect 5% of the budget, but they give it real focus, direction, humane, fairer and greener this currently orange monolith budget. I would ask my fellow Members, if they do not wish to explain carefully before the start of the school in September, why there are not enough specialized teachers in schools, if they do not want 600,000 public service workers to feel that their salaries are being devalued from week to week, and they do not receive any assistance from their employer, the government, if they do not wish to see the climate crisis and health problems in an idle manner, then they will vote for the budgetary amendment proposals of the Momentum Movement Group. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-06-23-52	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Károly Panczél of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about two things in my speech; first, briefly, with a little connection to Endre Tóth, a momentous Member, who highlighted the importance of fixed-track transport as an environment. Yesterday's news was that LMP is demanding a congestion charge, i.e. the left-wing opposition intends to introduce a new type of tax. There is no doubt that transport between Budapest and its agglomeration is difficult and within the borders of Budapest. This is partly due to the untalented management of the city, and, of course, to the fact that 30 percent of the country's population lives in Budapest, the agglomeration and the county of Pest, and a lot of people commute from the capital to the agglomeration jobs, logistics centres, production facilities, and, of course, the agglomeration into the capital, to use health services, education, culture or shopping, but they work most. And it is sad that today only three out of ten travelers use community transport, and seven out of ten people spend 30 or 60 minutes a day sitting in their car in traffic, increasing the journey and putting themselves toil. Now the left-wing opposition comes up with the introduction of a congestion charge, while there are alternatives that we have started working on. Let me highlight the renovation of H6 HÉV, this is the HÉV line between Budapest-Vágóhíd-Ráckeve, but this package also includes the complete renovation of the HÉV branch leading to Csepel with new trains. In this HÉV renovation, the licensed plans have already been completed. Technically, the plan is waiting for the construction, and it would connect this southern agglomeration with Calvin Square, that is, downtown, in perspectives, and create a suburban railway axis that runs from Esztergom to Ráckev. But the Budapest-Lajosmizse-Kecskemét railway line is similar, which also affects my constituency, Dabas and its area, where last November the design started and a Vác-Kecskemét railway suburban axis could be created. But the northern part of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which would also provide suburban public transport from the Tass in Bács county through the Kiskunlacháza, Dunaharaszti, to the downtown, is also there not on the design table, but on the threshold of the construction. I would like to ask the left-wing opposition, for example, not to tangle the Restoration Fund in Brussels, because it is a cover for the renovation of H6 HÉV. EU funds are not tripped, but promoted, because these environmental investments should be supported by the development of green investment that is energy-friendly by the development of fixed-track transport. Dear House, Secondly, I would like to talk about the national policy chapter of the budget. The results of the elections on 3 April also show that voters agree with national policy objectives and their results in relation to the government's work, and therefore our goal can be to preserve and continue the results of the last 12 years. In the new governance structure, national policy issues are basically dealt with in two places, so we find the relevant resources at the chapter of the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. However, it is important to note that despite the inter-walleting of tasks, the continuity of all national policy programmes and their support will be ensured. National policy is the spirit of foreign policy, and therefore, when shaping relations with neighbouring countries, the government strives to establish cooperation that improves the life situation of Hungarian national communities. Foreign policy cannot be strictly separated from national politics in certain areas, as the borders of the Hungarian nation do not coincide with national borders. Foreign policy decisions should therefore, in many cases, also take into account national political foundations. It is essential that cooperation with neighbouring countries has a major impact on the life of Hungarians across borders. Mutual dialogue is important. The key to successful national policy is to know and understand what Hungarian communities across borders need. At the request of the mother country, the answer to your question years ago was to strengthen these communities economically. Of course, everything is based on an ever-growing economic environment. In the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, cross-border economic development programmes were launched based on this demand. Today, Hungary's economy can ensure that it can finance investments in Hungarian territory across the border. In recent years nearly 60 thousand companies have received a total of HUF 200 billion in funding, resulting in a total investment of HUF 394 billion in Hungarian populated areas. The Hungarian communities have thus gained economic growth, prospered in the homeland, and this has also been good for neighbouring countries, because the tax and employment on their side are positive. In 2023 we allocated HUF 6 billion 551 million to support cross-border economic development programmes. The State will continue to manage the support of the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme. As long as we spent 1 billion HUF on this purpose in 2022, this will be HUF 1 billion 550 million next year. There's still plenty of work to do here. In the future, we must continue to work to ensure that as many children as possible are included in the Hungarian education programme and that the cross-border economic development programme can also be launched in Csángóföld. The Diaspora Higher Education Scholarship Programme may continue next year, with the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, in which we support the Hungarian higher education studies of young people living in the Western Diaspora with Hungarian roots with a budget of HUF 675 million. When reviewing the budget, we can see year after year that there has been a source of national policy programmes that have been running continuously since their launch. The result of a very significant nationwide unification is the Unlimited! A program that has provided more than 500 thousand students from Hungary with a study trip abroad in recent years. This task will be published in the budget of Bethlen Gábor Fund Manager with HUF 5 billion 250 million, as well as in 2022. [[13.20]] I would also like to highlight the support of the Rákóczi Association in the fund management chapter of Gábor Bethlen. The Rákóczi Association will receive 2 billion HUF support, which has community spaces across the Carpathian Basin. 599 operates in the Carpathian Basin settlement and has about 30 thousand members, and in the last year 54 of their central programmes have reached over 90 thousand, most young people. Dear House, The Prime Minister's Office will manage 4 billion HUF 978 million in 2023 at the title of national policy activities and support for Hungarians across borders. With the closure of the pandemic, the flagships of national policy such as the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, whose mission is to strengthen the Hungarian communities living in the diaspora, to increase the professional standards of weekend schools, to help scout teams work, to nurture Hungarian folk dance and folk music traditions or to assess the materials of private and community collections, libraries, archives, museums, professional assistance, to assist church communities and, of course, to preserve Hungarian identity in the diaspora. And here I mention the other major program, the scholarship programme for the Sporadic Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, the Sándor Petőfi programme. Dear House, The nationalist power of mother tongue, culture, and faith is undisputed. Today we can say that there is no child in the Carpathian Basin who does not have the opportunity to study Hungarian in his homeland. We are very successful at the end of the kindergarten development program. About 900 institutions were renewed in the Carpathian Basin, or we supported the renovation or construction of nearly 200 brand new institutions, 1600 churches, parishes, church community houses. The Prime Minister's Office supports the religious activity of Hungarians living in foreign and diaspora by HUF 500 million, the ecclesiastical people serving abroad by HUF 840 million, while the development of religious institutions across the border by HUF 300 million. It is common for the State Secretary for National Policy to carry each year on the basis of some theme. 2022 was designated as the year of the nation of action. It is regrettable that this commitment has been added to a whole new content already in the second month of the year after the pandemic. With the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian war, the theme of the action nation has risen to a new level, and the greatest humanitarian aid action has been launched in Hungary to help those suffering the war. The draft budget for 2023 includes the functioning of the institutions and organisations of the Hungarian community of Transcarpathia in difficulty and the necessary resources for their activities. In addition to their basic tasks, these institutions and organisations in the current war situation also carry out humanitarian tasks in the accommodation, catering and other forms of support of Ukrainian refugees arriving in Transcarpathia. I would like to share with you that a social programme package in Transcarpathia has been launched: 15 000 applicants received some HUF 2.5 billion in funding; support for historic churches, pastors and religious teachers has started in Transcarpathia; it is a big task for us to restart public education in Transcarpathia in the summer; and we also support the association of Transcarpathian border municipalities; and we are working on building a social card system, implementing aid packages. So we continue to aim at further developing and strengthening Hungarian communities abroad in this difficult situation. Neither during the period of the pandemic, nor now, during the difficulties caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, do we reduce the support of Hungarians beyond the border. Since 2010, we have increased the total amount of government resources for national policy purposes tenfold, and now it is more than HUF 100 billion. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important goals, tasks, missions of a state is that the nation should remain, that the nation should remain in the motherland, in the torn parts of the country and in the diaspora. This budget will contribute financially to the survival of the nation in 2023. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-23-54	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Tamás Harangozó on behalf of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In recent years, I have been used to commenting on the budget planning of the defence and internal affairs areas, and I am doing so now, as a member of the Defence and Police Committee and vice-president of the budget debate. Obviously, it is said that criticism is stronger or more credible when one acknowledges the good and then talks about what is wrong, or in the meantime it is also about what is wrong. This area bears this duality, because in the communication of the Hungarian government, as well as in almost propagandaistic communication, the reduction of the consequences of the Russian-Ukrainian war is one of the most important messages, the security, peace of the Hungarian people, and if you look at these chapters of the budget for next year, at least in the area of internal affairs, in the field of law enforcement, they remain empty words regarding Hungary's internal security; they do not meet in any way with the political intentions, perceived or real intentions that the government is constantly expressing. This is not only about the fact that, in the total amount of financial support from the budget, it does not cover, for example, the current rate of inflation or the decline caused by inflation, but it is about the fact that, for years, both trade unions and those involved... the stakeholders have been sending a specific message with their feet about how much trouble there is, the police, the fire department, the prison execution, by getting out, by leaving the course, by leaving a life order for a job in a foreign dishwasher, or for any other work in Hungary. It is simply untenable in this area, especially for years, for the executive staff, and this is not improved by next year's budget, as if the government were ignoring the problem. And how bad is it? We know that since 1 June, after the Covidian emergency, the decommissioning ban in this area has been lifted, and although the authority of the Parliament, at least the authority of the Fidesz Members and the members of the government, has been telling us a lot that here, between the walls of Parliament, it is simply not possible to know, for example, how many people wanted to remove me in the first days, in weeks... because Prime Minister's political director spoke of everything else to my immediate question, but not about this. I don't know if it's because you have no idea, or if you simply refuse to talk about unpleasant things in this House. But since then, at least in the press, he's been getting partial information from the government, and we know that in the first few days, 300 policemen have only submitted their request for disarmament to the police. In the days and weeks since then, this figure has obviously continued to increase. And when I say that the problem is very big, I just want to remind you that there is a district in Budapest where the mayor himself announced that they would like to give extra money for public patrol, so that the local government's own public security staff can strengthen the security of the district in a patrol with the police, simply that the police can't put the police on patrol. [[13.30]] At this moment, from next year's budget, we see that the law enforcement salary, which determines the salary of each professional colleague, is exactly the same HUF 38 650, my fellow Members, which has not been increased by one penny since 2008, in 14 years. Allow me, however, to note that at the hearing of Interior Minister Sándor Pintér before his current appointment, before he took his current position, in front of the Defence and Police Committee himself, he said that he knew precisely that his colleagues would need a wage increase, not the one-off that was the gun money, but that my colleagues needed a noticeable wage increase, as he said, which will be incorporated into their monthly salaries. Now, there's no word or ashes in this budget, which is bad news, because it's for 2023, so there's no light at the end of the tunnel. Not to mention the fact that twice a 10 percent wage increase in recent years has been solved as a so-called additional benefit by the government, which was sewn up at the regulation level, so in December of the previous year. I would like to say that in this budget, it is possible to maintain the wage increase for this year and last year, but no further wage increases are included in this budget. Technically, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, as long as supplementary benefits are referred to them by means of such regulations, they can be taken from them at any time, in one day or in one hour. This is completely unacceptable in our view: with the lives of people who maintain the public security of Hungary professionally, by endangering their lives and physical integrity, such a government, who is constantly talking about the safety of Hungarian people, simply cannot treat them this way. The reason we have this budget here is that you're supposed to accept it in the summer of the year before, so that people's lives can be calculated. With this budget, everything but predictable is the life of law enforcement workers. After the arms money was accidentally brought forward, for a few weeks before the elections, for some mysterious reason, of course, this money is also disappearing from the budget for next year, so the 53,3 billion that was on this line this year is not included next year, and, as I said, there is no sign of any other wage increase. What there is an increase in personal benefits on the expenditure side, and obviously the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, will bring it around automatically. It is interesting that the Counter-Terrorism Center will take back or retake the President of the Republic's personal protection, and next year, a little more than a billion forints will be available and at least some 102 people will be available according to the budget plan. However, this also seems a little strong under the current circumstances, when, by the way, we need to create a Rehabilitation Fund and a Defense Fund and tax everyone who has acquired extra profit. However, this budget line is also a classified case of foamy-duji. But we can see it, because the President of the Republic can not only create 102 people's growth and jobs at TEK, but we also managed to raise their own Presidential budget by 100 percent in this time of distress. He must have had every reason. It is also very strange, as I mentioned, that, after the war plays a significant role in communication, the foreign police organization itself does not receive a penny more, although there is also a refugee crisis, and there is, in fact, still a serious responsibility of security agencies at the southern border, and therefore obviously also of the foreign police agency. In practice, there is no surplus funding for the foreign police and asylum sector in next year's budget. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this draft budget law there is the name of the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre, so there is a line, he receives a budget; I would like to note only quietly that there has been no such organisation in Hungary since May 25, 2022, as it is called the National Information Centre. I don't know if we read these letters wrong or if we need some sort of correction. The secret services are no longer part of the internal affairs budget, but they are part of Hungarian internal security. By the way, the secret services will not go any worse next year, which is technically welcome, given the world in which we live, the country in which we live; this may, by the way, cause many people to suffer from stomach problems, especially since the change in the structure of the government. But it is a fact and a fact that these organisations will be able to make huge technical purchases from the budget, even more excellent technical tools, listening devices and everything else in the next year. To sum up the area of law enforcement, I am convinced, Mr Secretary, that this will not work. Maybe the police have been technically strengthened in recent years. I can't, it's a fact. There may still be running programmes, whether from EU or domestic sources, to make technical improvements in the area of law enforcement. But if they really don't realize that it's great that if there's a Mercedes patrol car with a sticker, but they can't get people into it, then the basic task is to guarantee the safety of Hungarian people, they won't be able to provide it in the future. And every single decommissioned policeman has millions, tens of millions of dollars thrown out the window with his training, professional experience, and he cannot be replaced in two days by another man. Not to mention that a lot of people at the top or middle of their career said that they had had enough of this, and that this police force, in almost every organization of the police, can be seen perfectly on the coral: the bodies can't keep their colleagues, especially those who, by the way, speak a language, or expect some serious challenge from life, lose them first. There must be some kind of wage improvement in this area. Once again, I would like to quote Sándor Pintér from his hearing, which is his intention, and he asked for the support of the committee and Parliament for this wage development. Well, then, it's time, it's budget law, then this Parliament, its pro-government majority, should be kind enough to give the Ministry of Interior the money so that we can give our law enforcement colleagues a noticeable wage increase until this system collapses. As far as the defence chapter is concerned, we can actually show additional resources here, and it can actually be said here, as they say, that he is a winner of the budget; though he should not be a winner in the budget for the reason, because of the war next to us. Although indeed, it was time to begin the technical development of the Hungarian Defence Forces. And I hear that President Kósa was very keen on this class thing, and that 80 percent of his long-term speech was discussing the demise of preventive socialist governments and SZDSZ governments, but please don't be so nice as to be schizophrenic. Well, they've been running this country since 2010. Between 2010 and 2015, if the government led by the MSZP was, I don't know, a tsunami or tornado for the military, then I don't know what to call yours. By 2015, the Hungarian Defence Forces reached a low point, for example, when the Hungarian defence was reduced to 0.7 percent of its GDP-related budget, the government handed over over over 1 percent in 2010 and, in practice, even the remaining operating institutions were at least rattled during Csaba Hende's fight, but one or more of them ceased. I understand, and it's very well that defence is a national matter, and we have to start developing it, but I think it's really boring now that 12 years after they govern this country, and after that, you've only pulled money out of the defense for five years, you've got to listen to the rumors about what happened in the '90s or '2000s. [[13.40]] It would be important, much more important, to talk about how this huge amount of money, which is otherwise available, has been available for military development in recent years, what and how it is spent. Well, even in a closed session, you can't even get a sound piece of information out of you, but maybe it's not a coincidence, it's probably related to how conceptual this is and how well-founded it is professionally. I very much hope that there will be a change in this with the entry of the new minister; in the interests of the nation, in the interests of defence, I hope not because any change in the relations between the opposition and the ruling party should or should have been made in recent times. If you look at the budget of the Ministry of Defence in net terms, it would show that you will receive minus 300 billion less next year than this year, but, as we know, by creating the Defence Fund, there will be an extra HUF 850 billion of development money; plus, in the HM chapter, the money for sport will also appear under the title of national sports centers. Overall, it can be established with the Defence Fund, of course, if the revenues that are written there will come in from the extra tax and other items, that 2 percent of GDP, as NATO expectations say, will reach the portfolio. I would like to draw your attention to Mr Secretary of State, we may be reading something wrong again, but Annex 1 to the bill does not include the budget for NATO's security investment programme under heading management, while it is included in the same chapter's justification that HUF 16 441.5 million was planned for this, on page 32, so that this 16 billion is not included in the chapter's budget itself, and it is included in the justification. I'll add, it's always been in there for the last 30 years... or not for 30 years, but since we've been in NATO, I'm guessing it's been in there every year, so the numbers here don't add up, and unless we've done something wrong, I think it's worth looking at the reason for this. There will be no increase in the civil defense salary of the army, 44,600 HUF next year as well. Obviously, as you have just heard from me, this is still an elegant number compared to the 38,000 forints law enforcement, but it has been frozen for years, and I think that between such inflation and such living conditions, I mean, the cost of maintaining a household every month, this is certainly not competitive. Let's just be happy that there won't be a worse category. I think that it should be in the field of defence and in the human area, and that more money should be given. As much increase in personal expenses can be shown, this is obviously the inclusion of the wage increase so far in next year, the 10 percent increase in salary, which was for this year, is not the case for next year, and what is important is that 1250 people are planning to increase the number of defences, so the proposal sets the number for 25 249 people. That doesn't mean the number of soldiers actually there, but it's a funded status. I would like to remind you here that we hear a lot about the fact that the Hungarian Parliament, under the leadership of Fidesz, has increased the number of Hungarian defences allowed, and what a great thing that is. Then I would say to you that this is 37 650, so 37 650 is the number allowed by the Hungarian Parliament. Next year, if the current number is increased by 1250, it will only be 25 249, which means that more than 30 percent less than the Hungarian Parliament has allowed. What we're curious about is the fate of the Honvéd Medical Center. I also look at Mr Secretary of State, how the budget of the Honvéd Medical Centre may be included in the budget of the Ministry of Defence next year, while the Act on the Adopted Government Structure, which was already voted by Parliament a few weeks ago, states that the Honvéd Medical Centre will be out of the control of the Ministry of Defence and become a civilian hospital, which means that the Ministry of Interior will be bound as a Ministry of Health. Next year's budget is under the HM chapter of the Honvéd Medical Center. Now, what law is not true: the Finance Act is not true or the Law on the List of Ministries, or the Law on Government Structure is not true? 'Cause they're against each other. It would really be so good, not just because of the 3,000 people working there, but because of our 1.5 million compatriots, whose regionally designated center of gravity hospital. However, there are special healing activities in which this hospital is the hospital of 3 million Hungarians as the only hospital, by the way, I would add, the designated hospital of the staff working in the home affairs area. If we can finally find out something from any member of the Hungarian government about the fate of this institution, will it really stay under HM and redefine the law? You're going to the Home Office? What about the hospital section of NATO as a centre of excellence, by the way? This is also a very important part of the Hungarian Defence Service, and its very great pride; if it is brought out completely under the civilian world, then what will be the fate of it? What will be the fate of those who worked there a few years ago, half under duress, or by any other method, but dressed up as soldiers or defense workers, what will their fate be? It would be good to clarify these, because at the moment only the haste appears, and in this law they completely contradict what was adopted in the other law. All in all, the defense chapter can be said once more as a fact. 1. Two percent, if we add it up to the Homeland Security Fund, we got it. 2. There's a huge amount of money available for the development of the force. At least the directions can be extracted from both the law and the Minister's statements. I think it would be appropriate, and it would be good if the National Defence and Police Committee were to be able to find out more specifically about them. That part's okay. What we are missing from the defence budget is not only the fate of weapons, not just iron, not just concrete, but the fate of the people who work there. We think that such a 2-percent [[Sic!]] In addition to inflation, which has already reached almost 20 percent in terms of food this month, wages should also be touched if the area does not want to lose its competitiveness and we see no sign of this in this budget. So these, I think, must be corrected. I urge my fellow pro-government Members to listen to Sándor Pintér, and in the Finance Act please give the Ministry of the Interior money so that the people working there do not leave one by one, because public patrol and the safety of all Hungarians are not likely to be solved by the General's Faculty in the coming years. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-23-56	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Winner Vinna, Fidesz. Here you go, notary.
u2022-06-23-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Allow me to respond to Tamás Harangozó's sentences before I talk about next year's budget and highlight two areas of education, higher education and vocational training, but only quietly and modestly, because I am an individual representative of Nyíregyháza and its region, and I experienced it in 2007-08 when all the barracks were closed in Nyíregyháza. Ferenc Juhász, your party partner, was then the Minister of Defence. A military city has ceased to exist. We protested verbally, there was a protest, and we saw the army degenerate. So I would ask my fellow Member, listening to his comments, he spoke about the national issue, he spoke about the development of defence, he spoke about the resources in the defence chapter, then let us have a little dialogue on how to strengthen defence, because the budget for 2023, many have already said, the budget for defence and for the reduction of wages. [[13.50]] There are clear targets for next year's budget, not to increase the burden on people, but to achieve its revenue from extra-profit tax. It does not operate with austerity, but with disciplined planning, the essence of which is that it wants to maintain balance in terms of objectives, with a 3.5 percent deficit target, we want to continue economic growth; it is true that it aims at 4.1 percent in a modest way, like the first quarter of this year, or 7.1 percent in 2022, and it actually expects a 5-5.2 percent inflation rate, which I myself know is difficult to plan, because it can be higher and lower, because we do not know what will happen, when the Russian-Ukrainian war will end, how long the coronal virus epidemic will drags back, or how the sanctions in Brussels will affect the Hungarian economy, the economic and financial situation of the country, because the overhead prices are already in the heavens and inflation is high. It's hard to plan, but it's necessary. As the ancients said, navigare necesse est, it is necessary to sail, even if times are difficult. I believe that more than 1,500 billion forints in the Rehabilitation and Defence Fund show that the government and especially the financial government are prepared for this. I also think that it is an important objective of the budget to protect families, because it spends more than HUF 3200 billion on family support, it wants to protect pensions, since it spends HUF 4900 billion on pensions and 13th month's pension, security, defence, as we have heard from Tamás Harangozó, on the protection of jobs. A fellow opposition Member said that this work-based society failed. I would like to tell my fellow Members, especially the opposition representatives, that I see the 13th budget, not the 33rd budget, as Lajos Kósa, but I remember that in 2010, there was 12 percent unemployment in Nyíregyháza and its region, which was the national average. But in the remote parts, say, in the districts of Tiszavasvári and Ibrányi, from which twenty other settlements belong to my constituency, unemployment was 25-30 percent. This is now 3.5 percent in Nyíregyháza and its surroundings, nearly double this in Tisavasvári, Ibrányi district, 6-7 percent. But where did we start? This, in my opinion, is good because if they work, they can bring home a decent income. In fact, I will also tell you, as one of my opposition colleagues said that the number of people employed in the public sector has fallen, that we are happy about this, because we have always said that we should temporarily involve people who are not qualified or who have a degree, because the highest unemployment is among those with eight general or who have not completed it. I remember that I was a government commissioner at the time that in 2012 there were 220,000 national employees, one of the highest in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, now around 80 thousand, and significantly decreased in our county. Dear House, In my speech, I would like to talk about education as a teacher in higher education for four decades, teaching at the University of Nyíregyháza, a former college. One of them, as regards higher education, is that there is also a fundamental change in the budget, because model-shifting institutions have been removed from the central budget, last year 21 universities have changed maintenance, 4 universities and 1 college remain in state funding. This would serve to ensure that universities operate in a stable way, that they have improvements and that they have a quality education. I know we've been talking about quality education for decades, but we need a resource distribution system that rewards performance, and it also rewards a university teacher not teaching in five or six places like before, as I could say in the '80s, because then, I started my career in '83, and it was true then, and even more so in the '90s. Regulating institutional management in universities is also very important and monitoring this. The tightening of maintenance tasks, the Chancellor's system, in my opinion, has worked and universities can operate economically. (Sándor Szabó in the notary seat) Replaced by gullible Dezso.) What goals have been achieved, and what are the expected results in addition to functioning, since a large, large-scale development has been launched in the university sphere? I would just like to tell you that with the model-shifting institutions, the Ministry has written down the number of six-year financing contracts and a 25-year framework agreement. This six-year financing contract represents some HUF 1700 billion in operating grants, which is what the Ministry has undertaken, and this does not include any improvements. I would like to highlight only one or two of the results of the transformation of higher education so far and expected. One thing is that organisational changes enable the institutions to respond more quickly and effectively to labour market expectations. He will also want to confirm this in the field of vocational training, because there is, in fact, a duality, and there is a shortage of labour in Hungary, Western Hungary, but this wave has already reached East Hungary. Based on the promotion of traineeships, we have returned the undivided teacher training and this means that students participating in school placements are eligible for funding, which will help to carry out successful practice. The proportion of student allowances that can be used for study grants also increased by around 40% from 1 February 2020. Several people have also mentioned, my fellow Member, Szabó Szabolcs, that the shortage of teachers has appeared in Hungary. We would like to increase the number of teachers' students and motivate them with scholarships, as I also agree that it is very important to restore the prestige of the teaching profession. It's not just a raise. The wage increase, the government admitted it, I admit it myself, is necessary. However, social prestige does not come naturally, parents, social groups must also be told why it is important when a school works well. We're partners in this anytime. Of course, the number of participants in international mobility programmes will increase, the attractiveness of higher education in Hungary may increase, and Hungarian universities will also be involved in international training, including their revenues. In the light of the figures: the spending budget is HUF 81 billion 607 million, the revenue is HUF 27 billion 397 million, and the grant appropriation is HUF 54 billion 210 million. This is how expenditure and revenue come together in the 2023 budget. Of course, I mentioned earlier that this is significantly less because 21 universities are out of the central budget. But I could still say that one element of the funding of the institutions is normative funding, which is done according to the number of students. Dear House, It is very important that the number of students with university degrees increase, and this degree has real value, that students acquire degrees that individuals can manage on the labour market and produce high added value. This is good for the individual, good for the community and good for the country, because it improves competitiveness. I also see the situation in vocational training in the same way, this is the second area, which shows that if you have skills, you have a profession, you can get a job in the labour market. [[14.00]] The development of Vocational Training 4.0 is a success story, in my opinion, which transforms vocational training according to a well-thought-out system, to be more precise: it has already half-changed it, since in 2019 the LXXX. In fact, by amending the VET Act, this system has started since the 2020/21 academic year, and I can tell you that in several vocational training centres, I see developments mainly in the Nyíregyháza Vocational Training Centre this is a success story. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Let me back you up with a number. In April 2022, when students apply for further education, unfortunately, not all primary school students continue to study, say 92-93 percent of students, but 42 percent of those who continue to study submitted to the technics, 20 percent of them to vocational school and 34.5 percent to high school. No misunderstanding, I went to high school myself, it is very important for high school to be able to continue to study afterwards, but it is very important that it can also learn from technical technology, go to university, and even gain secondary tech qualification in five years of training. So 62 percent of the eighth grade students apply to vocational training. What is the nature of the training before I talk about budget figures? It takes labour market needs into account, starts with the needs of the economy, motivates students. Everyone gets a scholarship. This is not negligible. I come from a country where there are many disadvantaged families, and that they get scholarships for the child, that the family, the parents appreciate. Digitalisation and innovative solutions play a role in vocational training, training is practice-oriented, dual training is strengthened, and teachers and teachers are also interested, as there was a significant wage increase of HUF 32 billion, and there was a significant 30 percent wage increase in 2020-21. About 200,000 students are studying in vocational training, and of which there are 18 thousand students in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, so it is quite a significant number. The government increased the amount of the vocational training contribution and incorporated it into the social tax, thus facilitating the administrative burden on businesses. LXXX 2019 Law 16 further developed the vocational training system by allowing business organisations not only to train students in practice but also to complete their vocational education. I would like to call on Audi's vocational training system in Győr; a whole system has been built, and two professions and a professional qualification can be obtained free of charge from 2020. If you look at the budget figures, the vocational training centers will receive 174 billion HUF 596 million next year. That's pretty much the same as his time. A professional part of the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office receives 2 billion 787 million. It's a little more than this year. The additional funding of state vocational training institutions in 23 is the same as the. 22 and there is practically a development, there is a significant increase. The National Employment Fund Vocational Training Support Chapter is characterised by a 30 percent increase, from 34 billion to 654 million to 45 billion to 144 million forints. This shows how important employment is to us. It is also important for us that as many people as possible have jobs, as many people as possible get skills, so that they can be placed in a position that not only benefits the individual, but also the country. I see the 2023 budget in the service of these objectives, and I therefore believe it is well founded, and I therefore recommend it with respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-23-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. We'll get back to work. The next speaker from the Group of our country is Mr Dócs Dávid. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-59	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Although I have seen a few budgets, I have done so as a small town mayor, but it has deviated from the current draft budget so that if it were up to me, there would be significant transfers of funds here, and we could see a much more cut-down budget. I didn't prepare a speech that you consider to be a cliché, categorized under opposition style, on the subject of the central budget, but on the subject of the day-to-day problems of people living on the rural ends, and I am a credible one, as I am one of them. Unfortunately, I can say with absolute certainty that this budget is largely not tailored to the decisive part of the Hungarian people. After the change of regime, everyone expected better, but they realized that only the direction had changed, the train remained the same. In fact, many think back with nostalgia to the standard of living of the eighties, the time when Hungary did not perform better, but lived better. I cannot be blamed for crying back the socialist era, but for crying that in the past three decades Hungary has gone backwards, not in advance, against the government propaganda in terms of people's satisfaction and standard of living. And now the world is at another turning point, and so is our country, because we can see that new challenges need new answers, so that troubled times can be replaced by distressful times. At a time like this, when there is a crisis on the back of the crisis, in the age of the epidemics, at the forefront of the new global crisis, which speculators have committed, when there is a war in Hungary's immediate neighbourhood, it is the task of the Hungarian State, the Hungarian Government and the Parliament to guarantee the safety and well-being of the Hungarian people. You can wait, but it is not worth it, not for the Union or anyone else. We can only expect a solution from ourselves. This situation has to wake us all up, how vulnerable we are, how vulnerable we are. The first step must be to eliminate this clear dependency relationship for us, so that the strengthening of our national economy can play a key role, to get the Hungarian economy on its own feet, to make the Hungarian agriculture self-sufficient and self-sustaining, so that we do not need to import agricultural products in the form of raw materials or processed goods, so that we can transform the energy sector in such a way that it will cover the full supply of domestic users as much as possible. It is undeniable that there have been attempts, but instead, real solutions are needed today. The production of basic foods, agriculture, the development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the re-launch of the manufacturing industry, the secure employment of the domestic workforce, the decoupling of the national supply chain, self-preservation is what is good for us. We must strive to help Hungarian people instead of foreign multinationals, so that the measures taken will leave as much money as possible for taxpayers. We are talking about the people who bear the fate of our country on their shoulders every day, who should be included in this budget. Despite the fact that we are facing record inflation, the government has accumulated a lot of unnecessary or reduced expenditure in this budget. We see huge numbers in some places, such as in the case of KSH, where data are generated to support the good functioning of the system, and this has its tangible benefits, as it is earmarked for personal benefits at 13 billion HUF per year. At the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, they also receive HUF 8 billion for personal benefits, and they also have to solve their expenditure in rem. This is what they need to be shorthanded about, while openly anti-Hungarian Romanian chauvinists do not want to thank. As long as the money flows uncounted, the full-time mothers of the whole country receive the amount of the current old-age pension, which is shamefully HUF 28 500 today, and this is only HUF 5.6 billion in exchange for the most beautiful and most important nation-building profession. [[14.10]] Forints 18 billion were available in the budget when we were supposed to be out of the epidemic, and 7 billion forints were still saved for disease management, which could have been used to finance the otherwise underfunded health care, but under extraordinary government measures spent 170 billion forints, largely linked to the emergency. (Attila Gelencsér takes over the notary seat.) Or I could mention the law, but unfortunately they have not proved vital to the Hungarian state, and neither have the teachers. Furthermore, we cannot go silently with the priority support of multinationals and the enrichment of tech companies. Our previous proposal, which you have unfortunately only partially taken over, and we have called it an epidemic solidarity tax and brought it to the public, whose primary objective was to ensure that, in order to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the multinationals, the companies that have acquired unusually high income during the epidemic, are taxed by groups of companies, which are legally bound to ensure that the taxpayers who have been taxed are not able to impose their own burden on taxpayers, but to pay for this extra profit that they have acquired in the past period as customs collectors of the Crown Virus. In these times, the government supports the Audit, for example, with HUF 8.5 billion, who are known to carry money abroad, and only until 2020, HUF 1800 billion was shoveled out of the country, which is more than three times more than the amount allocated to order and public security in Hungary over a year, which unfortunately decreased significantly compared to last year. Similarly, SK Battery is a similar company, which has won HUF 138 billion in giga support, or Samsung, which enjoys $33 billion in state money, instead of the government spending on Hungarian businesses, or focused on local governments, who, let alone do not have a reserve, as you claim, are on the brink of bankruptcy and inability to function, thanks to the bleedings and withdrawals of the past years. For example, the state supported the creation of 500 new jobs out of HUF 8.5 billion, which represents HUF 17 million per employee, which corresponds to an average salary of almost 34 months, which is the salary and salary of nearly three years. I would say that we do not doubt the usefulness of the investment, but from this HUF 8.5 billion at least the same amount, if not more Hungarian jobs could have been created for Hungarian-owned companies, which guarantee that our investment will not be carried out as foreign capital. Each forint carried abroad, the export of which is indirectly supported by the Hungarian government, threatens the Hungarian economy, the crisis resistance of the Hungarian economy, and deepens the possibility for Hungary to become absorbed in the swamp of recession. We must not only see the crisis situation ahead of us, but we must also take effective measures to achieve effective prevention in the middle of a global economic situation that we are experiencing today. With the production of cheap food, we can strengthen the value of our national currency, guarantee Hungarian people high quality, cheap domestic products, secure their own jobs, reduce inflation, and the Hungarian food produced in the countryside would not appear on the shelves of shops at European high prices, as we too are able to produce and process those on which the foundations of the national economy could be drawn, and we would not be dependent on the price explosions following the new release of the euro. These measures would form the basis for leaving more money for Hungarian taxpayers, as I said, so that their standard of living will not be reduced during the crisis. The task lies before us, before you. I ask you, not politically, but professionally, to decide on the adoption of our budget in order to meet all aspects of the interests of our country, the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-23-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Richárd Hörcsik. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The Parliament, as has been said in many budgetary debates over the last decades, exercises one of its most important powers when discussing and adopting the country's financial plan. On my count, this is the 28th budget debate I've been involved in. We also know that the budget is traditionally for a calendar year, so it also responds more easily to the processes affecting the country's fate. In times of economic growth and difficulty, consideration is also needed in the budget to enable an action plan to take account of our circumstances. I believe that all of this has been particularly needed in recent years, as this period has been said many times by my fellow Members because of the coronal virus epidemic. Unfortunately, we can't say anything else about the years to come: as we came out of the crisis of the Crown Virus, the crisis of the war is already here, and the Russian-Ukrainian war is maintaining this uncertainty economically, as Árpád Kovács recently told us. So I believe that, in drawing up the budget for this year, there will be an even greater need for certainty to finally dominate our lives. I see that the government is doing everything it can to establish that certainty. It can also be seen from the fact that, at the usual time, he presented to us the proposal for a budget law, the purpose of which, as Minister Mihály Varga expressed in his exposé, is that we can protect the results we have achieved so far in difficult circumstances. Although 30 years after the South Slavic War, there is another war going on in our neighbourhood, which, unfortunately, threatens a global food and energy crisis, the primary objective remains to protect the financial security of families, to keep inflation in check and to preserve affordable prices. I believe, Mr Secretary of State, that this in itself is a very great achievement, a noble objective, especially if we look around Europe at the energy and the overhead in neighbouring EU Member States. This ambitious objective was also underpinned by our outstanding economic growth over 7 per cent last year, as well as the 4.1 per cent economic growth foreseen for the future and the 3.5 per cent government deficit target. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that stability, the stability of this budget and the budget for discipline are truly important in times of uncertainty. The question therefore arises as to what this budgetary proposal, reflecting stability and discipline, means, for example, in terms of EU affairs, as well as in terms of my narrower Patria, my constituency, Zemplén-Aba new priority. Ladies and gentlemen, First, by presenting the EU's relations with the budget, we can say that next year there will be three types of processes. On the one hand, we know that the 2014-20 programmes will be completed and, on the other hand, the budget for 2021-27 will have a total of HUF 7900 billion available for cohesion and structural programmes. [[14.20]] The source of these programmes is the EU's multiannual financial framework, as we call it in its maiden name, the MFF. For 2023, therefore, EU budget support of HUF 2057 billion will arrive at around 3 percent of GDP for this year on the basis of the traditional EU budget, i.e. the seven-year EU budget. It is important to point out that, thanks to the innovation of the common agricultural policy, I almost say that this is another Hungarian peculiarity, the national co-financing rate is increasing from 50 percent to 80 percent, which, I believe, can give farmers much more resources, thereby giving more impetus. This amount comes mainly from non-budget subsidies, which are often said to be direct producer subsidies. This represents a total value of HUF 511 billion. On the other hand, let us now look at the other side of the coin, how much Hungary will pay into the EU budget: this means HUF 605 billion in deposit next year. So the balance is still in our favor. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of next year's budget, the third assumed direction of EU funds to mitigate the effects of the corona virus is reported by the Next Generation European Union, as we call it, by means of the RRF, the recovery and resilience instrument. We are well aware that Hungary has already submitted its national plan with a budget of HUF 2511 billion allowing access to the facility in May 2021. Szabolcs Ágostházy, State Secretary, informed the Committee on European Affairs about this process on an ongoing basis. Hungary is eligible for grants of EUR 7.2 billion and has the possibility of borrowing EUR 9.6 billion. The government, quite rightly, in budgetary planning, is based on the principle that this source is ours, it is ours, so it should be included in the budget. We are well aware that negotiations with the European Commission are ongoing under the leadership of Minister Tibor Navracsics in order to make payments. I would like to note that Hungary has already supported joint borrowing in order to preserve the unity of the Union. In the first place, it would not have been us who needed it or needed it, but the southern states, which have, indeed, faced and are struggling with a great economic problem. The current retention of resources on the part of the European Union is not fair, it is clearly due to political reasons, and as a Hungarian Member, I would add that it is for the wrong political reasons of the European Union, we must state that. So the ball isn't on our side of the field right now. Ladies and gentlemen, The dynamic economic growth in recent years and budgetary stability, I believe, represent a real turnaround compared to the crisis management before 2010. Just one number. In 2004, when we joined the EU, GDP per capita in Hungary was 61 percent of the EU average; today it is 76 percent. This is a figure that Hungary has preceded, for example, Portugal. It is important to note that in 2010 every third person in Hungary was at risk of poverty. This ratio, write and tell, has dropped below 18 percent in ten years. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the last European Affairs Committee, the representative of the European Commission acknowledged that in 2010 the Hungarian employment rate was barely above 60%, and now it is near 79 percent. Mr President, The result is the result. This is recognised and recognised not only by the Commission of the European Union, but also by Hungarian voters. It is clear to everyone that all these achievements have paved the way for government measures that bear the promise and real promise of further development for citizens, and these promises have already been made gradually. Let us therefore briefly look at the budget proposal in terms of what it promises specifically for the citizens of Zemplén and Abaúj, how we can preserve the results so far in a narrower Patria, Abaúj and Zemplén, and how we can further strengthen the region's economy. First of all, I must briefly mention the specific aspects of territorial development in the Tokaj-Hegyalja region. As is known by the Government's decision in 2020 to develop the Tokaj-Zemplén region, the government measures necessary for road construction, reconstruction, tourism development, urban rehabilitation will not be classified further, it will provide HUF 150 billion in a three-year allocation from the budget. The Tokaj-Zemplén region development programme, I think, makes it clear to us that it will allow us, of course, in the most important area of the country, Zemplén and Abaúj to achieve these improvements purposefully here as well. The implementation of the programme has already started, although due to the difficulties the amount allocated to this year will be HUF 20 billion, but this will not fundamentally affect the success of the three-year programme. Secondly, I consider the results of the Hungarian village programme to be very important for my constituency, for which, thanks to God, next year, HUF 26.7 billion is also available due to external pressure and environment. So it is an important message for us that the development of the small villages of Abaúj and Zemplén can continue. On the one hand, many projects are still worthy of support, so our local governments, our businesses, need to choose wisely in 2023. The area of Zemplén and the area of Abaúj, as well as its settlement structure and economic situation, are among the first, which I feel can count on these resources. Overall, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the visible developments that have already begun will speed up in the future, thereby strengthening the economic development of the region. Ladies and gentlemen, Before finishing, please allow me to mention an important issue of EU relevance. A new EU presidency troika will begin on 1 July 2023: Spain, Belgium, Hungary. We are well aware that the presidency always has a great responsibility and must be prepared very seriously, not only in human resources but also in providing a financial background. Our country will take over the Presidency in the summer of 2024 but I believe it is important that there is sufficient resources for the organisational, personnel and infrastructure development needed for the Presidency next year. Finally, I would like to thank Parliamentary Secretary Banai for his work in drawing up the budget. It is important that not only the centre, so Budapest, but also the region, including Abaúj and Zemplén, take part in the development that lies ahead. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Group of Dialogue, Mr Mellar Tamás is taking the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'm just trying to briefly reflect on a few things about the budget. The first relates to the growth rate. Here it has been said several times that the government is expecting a growth rate of 4.1 percent for next year. [[14.30]] This was considered too optimistic by the Fiscal Council and he said that it depends on a number of things: how the epidemic situation will change and the war and the external balance. I think, by the way, that there is one more important element, namely how much external resources can be involved. The Hungarian economy has seen over the past year that economic growth depends on how much external resources can be involved. This in itself has not been a problem in recent years, because there could be a sufficient amount of EU funds involved, but now I am afraid that this will not succeed, and if the government insists on 4.1 percent economic growth, then there will certainly be new borrowings and debt will increase. So it will have to be calculated that the debt-to-GDP ratio will increase. The other important issue and I am very pleased that Minister of State Banai has come back, because he has returned on several occasions to this issue, that although there is a significant reduction in expenditure in this budget, there is a restriction, but there is such a restriction that it does not affect the population in any way, in any way whatsoever. I'm kind of in the case of the miracle guy. It is well known that the miracle rabble had to go somewhere on Saturday, and he said that there was a shabbat on my left, on my right, but there is no shabbat on the road where I go. In other words, all restraint is possible and will be possible, as the Fiscal Council has also stated that the majority of the corrective programme, 60% of which will be a reduction in expenditure, will not affect Hungarian households, Hungarian people. Well, let's look at what this story looks like from a macroeconomic point of view: GDP has an income-sided division, in which the story seems to have income-sided wages and profits. If you're going to tax profits, you're doing the right thing, but you're going to have to figure out who's going to pay this profit tax. Economics knows that in such a case it is necessary to see whether there is greater flexibility and price flexibility in demand or supply. Because who ultimately pays the tax depends on which factor is less flexible and will always be less flexible to pay more taxes. So if on the public's side, if the demand side is inflexibility, then it will pay. But, of course, let us agree that they do not know that large companies will not be able to pass on the tax, the extra tax. But in this case, what's going to happen? In this case, what will happen is that if the profit rate is reduced, the economic activity of companies will obviously decrease, as they are profit-oriented. You know that, too, because if you didn't know that, for example, you would have imposed taxes on German car manufacturers, but you didn't have them imposed on them, and you had Parliament accept very quickly the rejection of the global minimum tax, because you know exactly that if you had to levy 15% as a tax on foreign companies instead of 9 percent, then some companies might go. So when you talk about taxing investment, you also have to assume that this will lead to a reduction in economic activity. Moreover, if economic activities are reduced, they will obviously reduce GDP and also reduce outflow of wages. I think it's pretty clear. On the other hand, if you look at the story from the demand side: from the demand side, GDP looks like consumption and investment. You do not want to limit consumption, obviously only investments. However, if investments are reduced, then, then, investments are part of aggregate demand and aggregate demand is reduced, if aggregate demand is reduced, GDP is reduced, but if GDP is reduced, the wage mass will also decrease. If, of course, expenditure is not reduced, there is a need for additional resources; this could either be an EU resource or debt. So we are talking about a mutually-related system, which, unfortunately, if we go into one place, it will ring around the rest of the economy, at least according to the prevailing principles of economics. So you can't just imagine me going in here, and then I can't separate this part from the others, unfortunately. Inflation, inflation: inflation rate. Heroic assumption is 5.2 percent inflation next year and 377 HUF exchange rate. But it's probably just a fantasy, because there's a great need for an anti-inflationary programme, an anti-inflationary policy, because what you're doing right now is suppressed inflation, i.e. freezing certain prices. It's another story like when a kid with rosepox is painted pink, and then you don't see these smallpox marks, but it's still there. So if you suppress inflation by not allowing prices to rise, the inflationary pressure in the system is still in the system, and sooner or later it's gonna come out, and if you're forced to release it, it's gonna come out with a big push. I would also like to say something about the SAO report. I read the SAO report, and I was very pleased when I read in it that the risks associated with the budget were very low. It's really risky... on the expense and revenue side, they found 0.1 and 0.4 percent sizes, so we can sleep safely at night, because everything here is fine, 0.1 or 0.4 percent of all items, that's very little. But I looked at 2021 because there are already facts there, and the same thing was that according to the SAO's report, the budget was very, very, very stable, and there it was later seen that the general government deficit planned for 2.9 percent was ultimately 6.8 percent. I mean, I'm not so sure in the current 3.5 percent government deficit that this will be achieved, even if the SAO report is trying to convince me to do so. All the more so, because if you look at it, the structural deficit is higher, it is 4.5 percent, and it shows better the actual situation, what is in the whole system. Finally, I would like to say a few sentences about municipalities, in particular with regard to the municipality of Pécs. In the current budget, it can also be seen that the municipalities are still considered step-hauls, there can be further bleeding, and this is also problematic because, for example, in the last two years, the government in Pécs has lost HUF 5-6 billion in state withdrawals, and only a very, very small part of it has been compensated by the government. According to recent calculations, as energy prices rise, there will be an additional expenditure of 1.5 billion, which at this moment does not appear to be any kind of collateral. I would like to ask the Ministry of Finance and the Government to acknowledge that the people of Baranya and Pécs are Hungarian people, so the government should also represent their interests and should be protected. Because the mayor is an opposition and because Baranya was won by an opposition representative in an individual election round in 1 it should not result in the people of Pécs being punished. So I would very much like to ask that some sort of compensation for this extra expenditure of 1.5 billion, something to cover in the budget, should not be more disadvantageous, not what was previously the case, that in such a case the friendly authorities were given a lifeline and some additional resources, and at the same time those on the opposition side, which they did not, because those people are Hungarian citizens, and they do not deserve this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2022-06-23-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am trying very briefly to respond to three points of the speech by Mr Tamás Mellar. The first point is that I agree, of course, with the Professor in the field of economics. However, I would argue that the measures contained in next year's budget law on the revenue side would reduce economic growth. The Member said that if the profits of the companies disappear, that profit will not be invested or passed on, people will pay. Windfall taxi: that's what they call a profit that comes from unforeseen processes in businesses. It is no coincidence that the United Kingdom has already decided to introduce such taxes, it is no coincidence that many European countries are considering introducing such taxes. The professor himself gave the answer that the proposal put on the table by the government will not affect the normal functioning of companies, because we are not talking about the general tax on all companies, which would force a change in normal business activity, but we are talking about the fact that in some sectors there is a significant extra profit. Then let me recall to the Member that at this time a year ago, the interest on the one-week central bank deposit was 0.75 per cent, and now it is over 7 per cent. If we account for HUF 10 billion per year, a one-week deposit facility at the central bank, with only 5% return, not 7 but only 5 percent, the 500 billion [[Sic!]] Forint profit in the banking sector. I repeat: this rate was 0.75 a year ago. So this, I think, is an unprecedented income in the banking sector, no one thought there would be such inflation, such war inflation, and as a result, the central bank's base rate would go up to such heights. I think there's a profit here that the banking sector didn't count on. The other sector is energy. We talk a lot about the difference between the two determining oils, Brent and the Ural. Before the war, it was 2-3 dollars per barrel, now it's over $30. No one's counting on that. So the inclusion of this profit in public burdens does not affect the normal economic activity of companies, which is why we believe that all the measures we have taken do not jeopardise economic growth. This is also true of the expenditure side, since we believe that the reduction of state investments in civil engineering reduces demand by still covering supply with the investment needs of the population and businesses. So when the total demand exceeds supply, it only comes down to rising prices, as the professor knows, so if we reduce demand and the state now does so by reducing the demand for state-owned construction investments, we believe that it does not affect emissions. The second observation concerns the anti-inflationary programme. Let me point out here that I think that next year's budget law, the Retirement Fund, will be used to protect fixed prices. When it comes to inflation, when it comes mainly from outside, it is quite difficult to act, perhaps it is accepted by the professor, and at present we are talking about war inflation, a radical rise in energy prices. We know the gravity of Ukraine, Russia, in cereal production, that there is an increase in external inflation, which is hard for everyone to fight. It is no coincidence that inflation is 20 percent in Estonia, and inflation is higher in the Visegrád countries everywhere than in Hungary. So I think that it is worth launching an anti-inflationary programme, and that such specific steps should be taken when it comes to internal measures and internal processes, see: I believe that holding back investment affects not only the budgetary balance, but also inflation. Against external inflationary measures, it is different, if you like, to use non-traditional instruments. The third is that the Member said that inflation will come out sooner or later, so as a lid, it will be removed from the pot when there is great pressure. It is a bit strange that it is an example of the reduction of the rent, since earlier left-wing representatives criticized the reduction of the rent. It is now that the extra expenditure of the city of Pécs may arise from the fact that the market processes, so to speak, are in the way of paying local government bills. This is where I feel some contradiction in what the Member said. But the point is, what I want to say is that our goal is to ensure that the population pays low rent. It is undoubtedly a fact that municipalities and budgetary bodies will have to pay higher electricity and gas prices in the future, but we can also talk about additional expenditure and additional revenues in the municipalities. One such additional revenue is that the proposal for a budget law before you increases the support of local governments by HUF 95 billion, and the other by the fact that the often mentioned economic growth also increases the main source of income of municipalities, the business tax. I therefore hope that the city of Pécs will be able to finance additional expenditure with additional revenues and additional subsidies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-23-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Csaba Nagy is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the bill on Hungary's central budget in 2023, the Ministry of Justice can spend HUF 17 786 million to achieve its objectives. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the establishment and operation of victim support centres in Hungary. Since 2010, Hungary's Government has been doing its political work consistently on a strong set of values. Each of the different cycles set important goals for the interests of the Hungarians, to which the legislation and the legal environment have been trained, be it public security, family protection, the protection of children, the protection of public health, the protection of public health. Each one of them shares the keyword that can be found in the word of the protection. In the planning of the 2023 central budget, it was a priority that, as in recent years, the judicial portfolio should continue to provide stable foundations and pay particular attention to increasing public trust in justice. I consider the protection of the Hungarian people to be particularly important at the most basic and basic levels, one of the excellent organisational and practical examples of which is the work of victim support centres. But who are those victims? Who can turn to the victim support centers? According to the legal definition, he is a victim, so he can receive help, who has become a victim of a crime or a violation of property in Hungary, or who has suffered injury, physical or psychological injury, emotional trauma or property damage as a direct consequence of the crime. Anyone can become a victim at any time without their own fault. Unfortunately, even now, older people are being robbed, and violence against children and women is being committed. If a person has direct or indirect contact with a criminal offence, such as a witness or a member of his family, he should, as appropriate, process the effect. It is a normal human reaction to physical or mental problems and financial difficulties. In this area, support is provided by the domestic victim support system, as well as a number of preventive tasks to prevent victimisation. Victim assistance includes, among other things, theft, robbery, fraud, victims of trafficking in human beings, victims of various kinds of violence, especially family and relationship violence, including physical and psychological abuse, as well as the relatives of sexual abuse, fences, child prostitution, victims of harassment, and victims of all this. [[14.50]] They should be given all the opportunities available within the framework of victim support centres. These assistance services can be used by any citizen of the EU Member State living in Hungary, or by a Hungarian citizen living in Hungary who has been the victim of a crime during his legal stay abroad. The legal consequences and environment of victim assistance are the 2005 CXXXV on aid to victims of crime, public compensation. is determined by the basis of law. From 2006 onwards, the then victim support services began to operate at county level. The foundations of the current organisational structure started to function in 2011. These services, which have been launched with a thorough supplement, have worked in government offices, if you can call it a service. The green number, the victim support line, has been working since February 2011. In the same year, Hungary took over the presidency of the Council of the EU for six months, and in the meantime it has prioritised the area of victim assistance and the relevant EU legislation. As of April 2012, as a result of the amendment of the Law on Aid to Victims of Crime and the Law on State Compensation, the State aid scheme became available to victims of infringements of property. For the current structure, the real breakthrough occurred in 2017, when the Government decided that the Minister of Justice was responsible for establishing a more effective system of state victim support. The Ministry of Justice has started to set up a network of victim support centres in line with the objectives set out in the victim support strategy. In Hungary, the assistance of victims has improved a lot over the last ten years, and the government is committed to providing effective assistance. As a key government goal, the victim support system is to get as close to those in distress as possible, so victim support centres have been set up in several cities in addition to the victim assistance services available at the metropolitan and county government offices. The first such centre in Budapest opened its doors to victims of crime in June 2017. This was followed by Miskolc, Szombathely headquarters in 2018, Pécs on 29 June 2020, Szeged and Kecskemét in December 2020, Veszprém and Szolnok in 2021, and the most recently transferred centre is in Siófok. In 2020, the government announced the year of victim support in our country. In this context, the Ministry of Justice has doubled the number of victim support centers. The government is constantly expanding the network, the most important milestone of which is that by 2025, they will be able to receive the help-seeking clients who have become victims of the crime in every county seat. There are 11 victim support centres in Hungary in Budapest, Kecskemét, Miskolc, Pécs, Szeged, Szolnok, Szombathely, Veszprém, Debrecen, Eger and Nyíregyháza, as well as three victim assistance points in Salgótarján, Érden and Siófok. The 2023 budget will provide an opportunity to open three additional centres next year. The purpose of setting up victim support centres was to provide personalised assistance to victims of crime in a calmer, more confidential, philanthropic atmosphere, other than an official bureaucratic environment. The key to helping victims is to get to the people in distress, said Attorney General Judit Varga. A number of free services are available here, which are the most basic and important assistance to victims after an injury or abuse. They can receive complete information primarily personalized and tailored to the situation, as well as emotional assistance with the assistance of the victim's needs psychologist in the specially designed patron room for this purpose. After the assessment of the situation, the primary priority is to redirect victims to the appropriate problem-solving body and to facilitate the enforcement of victims' interests, be it legal advice, legal assistance, immediate financial assistance, compensation. In addition, certification of victim status, witness care and the provision of shelters are also available in the centres. It is worth showing with some figures how many people these centers can help or turn this viewpoint around, because it may be more important to see how many victims could or because they could turn to these centers for help. In 2020, almost 15,000 cases of assistance were provided, with over 18,000 in 2021. Between 2017 and 2021, more than 70,000 victims were helped by center staff. These figures also justify the objective of having such a victim assistance centre available in all county seats by 2025, so that these legal and psychological assistance bases and services can be made available in the full coverage of the country. On 29 June 2020, the Centre of Pécs, which was handed over by the Minister of Justice, was the fourth in the country. It opened at the Széchenyi Square near the county hall. At the beginning of 2021, the head of the centre said that the citizens who came into contact with the Pécs Center for Victim Assistance are mostly Baranya. 25 percent of people who came into contact visited the center in connection with contact violence, and more than 30 percent reported the proportion of crimes against property. We also need to go forward in victim support, emphasized Minister of Justice Judit Varga at the formal signing of the cooperation agreement between victim support centres and large state companies in Budapest in March 2022. According to the document MVM, MÁV-Volán, Magyar Posta and Szerencség Zrt. involved in expanding the system of victim support and victim attainment. In addition, cooperation was established with 35 national and local NGOs, 26 state and local government organisations and five church organizations. To sum up, therefore, victim support centers perform extremely important tasks, which can help tens of thousands of Hungarians to deal with harms and harms against them in a legal, psychological, or financial way. The Ministry of Justice provides a legal framework for their rolling tasks, as well as the establishment of organisational, corporate and partner networks, and opens up the opportunities to obtain information for them. Ladies and gentlemen, Data on legal persons and other legal entities involved in public, social and economic life are currently included in different registration systems led by different tax authorities, and it is therefore necessary to establish a single register of legal persons. This will allow the development of support services that serve both the court and the client side. The new registration structure makes it possible to fully digitise registration and change registration procedures. With regard to the Ministry of Justice, the rethinking and further developing of control practices aimed at strengthening consumer safety, increasing the efficiency of traditional official work, in particular in the area of the elimination of dangerous products from the market, and combating unfair commercial practices, is a priority objective for public consumer protection tasks. The protection of consumers in online space should also be a priority in view of the expansion of social media and the continued change. In order to prevent infringements, it is also essential to raise citizens' consumer awareness and promote the generalisation of enforcement by means of alternative incentives. The Ministry of Justice has proposed a budget of HUF 10 253 million to spend on administrative tasks. These tasks include the role of the judicial services law academy and the 2015 CV on the debt management of natural persons in the role of the Central Family Bank Protection Service. Legally, the tasks of the central body of the Family Bank Protection Service, as well as the related tasks of coordination and information. [[15.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a budget law contains HUF 773 million in support of professional programmes and other obligations of the Ministry of Justice, a HUF 3469 million item of expenditure for the fulfilment of payment obligations under the legislation of the Minister of Justice. Dear House, T/152. The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023 contains the necessary resources to achieve the objectives of the Ministry of Justice. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill with their vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-23-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The last speaker in the second round was Mr László Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The most important bill of every year and the most important debate of every year is the one about the next budget, and this is the moment or the process when political propaganda is divorced and political speech is separated from reality. We have been accustomed, in the last many, many cycles, to heed the warning that we have received from you or Prime Minister, not to listen to what you say, but to what you do and what you are about to do and what you are about to do, and that you can clearly read from the numbers. And obviously it is our job to see what they are doing, what they are not doing, and what the consequences will be if they implement the budget they are presenting, and we believe that there will be very serious consequences if this happens, if it happens in a way that can be seen from the draft budget. As a very general introduction, it should be noted that this budget has been presented in a special situation during a period of crisis. There should be more functions in the current budget or draft budget: on the one hand, the current crisis, inflation, the economic crisis, the social crisis, the energy crisis, the climate crisis should also be dealt with by the budget and the government should face the situation that we simply cannot go further after the crises, nor after the war situation, in the way that has always been the norm. It is very simple, generally summat, to say that this requirement has not been met by the government in almost no way, and this draft budget is not in line with it. So we can say that reality was almost ruled out by government communication, and this budget plan excluded it. And we also need to draw attention to the fact that this budget is inexorably unfair, because the additional burden of the crisis is typically placed on families in the most difficult situation, on people who earn the least, and not on large companies, and they do not meet the requirement that the richest bear these increased burdens to the greatest extent. Our opinion is obviously very strong either in relation to the fact that this budget does not in any way meet the environmental and green objectives, it does not meet these challenges, but it has also been seen from the ministerial candidates' hearings that this government has not yet met sustainability aspects, but in this situation it is clear that even in relation to itself, we can say that they are preparing for decades of withdrawal. So this budget does not, or will not, solve the problems affecting Hungary, but deepens them and, in some respects, they intend to cover them, in line with very, very short-term political, momentary political interests. The budgetary debate has already been very long here today. I have, by the way, observed the reactions and manifestations of the Secretary of State, and is always very keen to respond to the opposition talking about austerity, when the opposition talks about the reality that this budget is indeed a brutal austerity budget, and we can see another stop, or another part, of the government's austerity package with incredible and inaccessible consequences, in this budget, and in general, based on the government's plans, which have been visible or can be followed so far. I do not understand that, in addition to the fact that there is obviously a communication policy compliance urge from the Secretary of State to deny it, everyone denies that this is a restriction, but I think that if we look at the numbers factually, then even the Secretary of State cannot deny it. All the more, we expect the Secretary of State to speak frankly about this, because in recent years we have been accustomed to the fact that Mr Secretary of State has approached budgetary debates on the basis of less political communication, rather professionalism and policy. Dear Secretary of State, At a time when municipal resources are being brutally withdrawn, in a situation where the municipalities are in a very difficult situation following the coronal virus epidemic and the emerging global crisis, additional tasks have emerged, their resources have decreased from the other side, and when the economic effects of the war situation, the war situation resulting from Russian aggression, are also impacted on the municipalities, when the effects of climate change need to be protected directly by the authorities to the greatest extent possible by Hungarian people, how can municipal withdrawal be interpreted differently than that imposed directly on people? So you know precisely, Mr State Secretary, that every member of the government and every government party Member knows that the municipalities are responsible for ensuring the most important public services, and when they withdraw the resources needed to do so, when they put the municipalities in a position where they cannot fully carry out the most important tasks on their own, then it is clear that the people living there, living in cities, villages and districts, will have to pay more and more to receive these public services or, where appropriate, to receive less and less services in addition to the payment in question. This is a austerity that you are enforcing not directly towards the people for political reasons, but through the municipality they are hurting the Hungarian people. You can't refuse that. But likewise, it is clear that your extremely flawed political decisions have put EU funds for Hungarians and Hungarians in jeopardy. I think that you have made decisions, the weight and consequences of your decisions, you have been well aware, but even if you hadn't been aware, we have drawn attention to this in recent years. Now it is obvious that we can lose even European Union funds because of these misguided, faulty decisions and contrary to Hungarian national interests, well, this is also a brutal austerity policy, honourable Secretary of State. What I can also see as a austerity is that the government seems to want to spend more and more on itself, to spend more and more on itself, and on the other hand, let alone view the economic situation created by the crisis, let alone inflation, but not even wage increases expected under normal conditions are typically given in the public sector, and this leads us to collapse in certain sectors. This is also a austerity policy, Mr Secretary of State, when politics spends on itself, when there are ministerial and secretary-general salary increases, it is symbolic, but when the Prime Minister's salary is doubled and the most basic and necessary wage increases are not enforced in the public sector, and otherwise, the decisions made in relation to wages are not even symbolic in very, very many sectors. So this is what we have to deal with, Mr. Secretary of State, and the fact that there are fundamental system problems in Hungary that you are simply or not ready to solve, are unable to do it, or do you think that you should not deal with it, because it may be possible to cover up for a few more years. This is not the case, and I would like to mention a number of concrete examples in my current speech, Mr Secretary of State. Last year, and the year before that, I have always drawn attention to one of the most serious system problems affecting the water utility sector. Mr Secretary of State, in recent years, you have not been able to disprove it in recent budgetary debates, and as I have seen it, you did not wish to deny that this is an extremely important and troubled area, but the solution is still not in the budget. So it remains the case that the most important public service, i.e. ensuring the supply of healthy drinking water, sewerage, collection of waste water, drainage of waste water and cleaning of waste water, the water utility sector, is on the brink of collapse, and you have not only improved this situation over the past period, but rather deepened this problem. We can say that this will actually bring the future to an end, because water bases are being polluted, water quality problems are becoming more and more widespread, water systems are failing, and if we want to address this problem in the future, it will cost more and more money, Mr. Secretary, and if we look at the draft current budget, we can almost say that there are no traces of solutions to this extremely important problem, which is also recognised by the Prime Minister. Then let us talk about the consequences of this, honourable Secretary of State, if you go on with this policy. The consequence of this sector alone will be that drinking water will collapse in Hungary. I think that every person, in any city or small settlement, can experience more and more leaks, more and more problems with water quality, more and more problems with water supply, more and more problems with water supply, more and more the proportion of drinking water that has flown, and we can say that there is an exponential increase in the number of problems. [[15.10]] The consequences of this policy, this budget, Mr Secretary, will be that the water bases will be destroyed, and this will cause irreparable damage to the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation and Hungary. Expenditure in the future, by the time there is finally a government that is beginning to face this problem, will increase to an immeasurable extent, honourable Secretary of State. I say this problem in such detail because I think that this is not a party political issue, it is a relatively exact problem that can be defined in the language of numbers. We also see how much money is being spent to solve the problem. Mr. Secretary of State Iván has a professional, non-political, professional response to how you intend to deal with this. You can see that in the draft budget there is a HUF 3 billion plan for the reimbursement of value-enhancing investments in state-owned water resources. Dear Secretary of State, If you look at the estimates of various local government associations or professional organisations, you can see that I am thinking in the medium term here in the 15-year perspective, which puts the amount missing in addition to the currently planned funds between 1500 and 3000 billion forints, the deadline for rolling development plans or their planning time. So that's what's missing, that's not what's needed, that's what's missing, so maintenance and replacement work can be done. About a year and a half ago, I asked the Prime Minister, who acknowledged this problem, and he began to talk about the fact that from the next period and from reconstruction sources, the European Union's framework, the magnitude of this is indeed a thousand billion. Well, where's the solution, Mr. Secretary? I'll give you just one example, but the hunting exhibition is no longer a topical issue, but you have spent twenty times more money on the past,, high success, hunting exhibition than in a whole year in the public water utility sector for this maintenance and development work. And where else are they, Mr. Secretary of State, the municipal, dominant local government-owned regional waterworks? Where is the support for these? Like they don't exist. So you can see that 65,000 kilometers of pipe network is waiting for immediate renovation, along with the resources you have planned, all this work could be completed in about 220 years, but obviously I don't have to say that during this time, many of the systems that are still in operation will be destroyed. Under your governance, the number of failures in the water utility sector has doubled since 2011-12, with a network loss of about 25 percent today, so about 25 percent of the drinking water produced simply drains because of bad pipelines and is below 20 percent, Mr. Secretary of State, the number of properly qualified pipelines. Compared to this, you know perfectly well that we need a total of 100 billion dollars a year, and you, even the Secretary of State, are counting between 1.5 billion and 3 billion in your response. And then we can see other funds worth a few ten billion, while we know that 200 billion surplus would be needed in order for the sector to stay on the surface at all. Accordingly, we have, of course, tabled amendments and reiterated the proposal, obviously from the budget side, that the public utility tax on water utilities should be abolished immediately. You can't juggle numbers here and there, you just have to cancel this tax. This would be a very, very small help, but it would be very, very important help for the sector, and we certainly need an additional resource of a hundred billion per year. In addition, as a proposal to amend regional waterworks, maintenance and replacement works, we will propose another item of 50 billion, and we have already tabled our amendment proposal. But I would be very curious to hear from the Secretary of State. So if the government doesn't make it to the point of securing the most important public service because it can be read out from the budget, then how can you talk positively about this budget, as you have done? I would like to give you one more concrete example, Mr Secretary of State, and this is the situation of the rural lower road network, which is very important for the countryside. For many years, I have always told you that your government has called itself a friend of the countryside, even though it is simply a ridiculous amount of money being spent here through the Hungarian village programme to develop the lower roads. And on the whole, the state-owned road network is in a scandalously bad state, and I think that can be experienced by all the people who are in the country, but this is also shown by the numbers. So there are literally 17,000 kilometres of Hungarian public roads in the wrong and the wrong category. These are not our statistics, these are the official statistics of the organizations you run. And the fact is that this problem is not being dealt with, obviously the legacy was difficult in 2010, but you do not process this problem, you do not work it down, but every year the proportion of roads in bad condition is increasing because you simply do not pay enough attention to it. If we look at the budget numbers, we can't see that right now. Obviously, we are also proposing an amendment to this, we are proposing additional resources for the development of lower roads, and we are obviously also drawing up here the resources that we believe can be taken away in order to have a road network of adequate quality for the rural areas that are falling. Here, Mr. Secretary of State, I could give you a lot of examples of practical life when bus transport is almost impossible; so when not only a side road, an access road, but also, where appropriate, the locally competent employees of the local State Volán company have already indicated to the municipalities that if they do not do something to renovate the roads, they will not be able to perform the bus service either. During today's debate, the issue of illegal landfills has been raised, perhaps by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász. This is an extremely important fight, but we can also say that the government has not achieved any meaningful results in this area, and we can say that, although the Prime Minister made a clear commitment about two and a half years ago, the problem has become more and more powerful, despite the fact that funds have been spent on it. Here, too, I draw attention to what I have done many times in the last term during the ministerial hearings, too, to the need for a fundamental change in legislation, so that, for example, foreign plastic waste cannot flow into the country in this amount, as is currently the case because of bad legislation, and in this way a fight to eradicate illegal landfills can be started at all. I have received some of these flamboyant promises from the candidates for ministers that in this regard they will accept our amendments, our legislative amendments, and I am confident, and we hope that this will happen. Nevertheless, we believe that there is a need for additional work and additional resources, and we are also proposing amendments to this in order to provide additional resources for municipalities to eliminate illegal landfills. And then the situation of the municipalities came up. Mr Mellar, in particular, spoke about the situation of our common city, Pécs, but I think that we are talking about problems of far and far national importance here. I have already pointed out that in the front line of the fight against or the effects of climate change, environmental pollution, there are local governments. But if you take resources away from the local authorities, you're putting restrictions on the municipalities, then this job will not be able to be done by the local authorities. The Climate-friendly Association of Settlements has now been established, which includes more than 60 municipalities, and more and more settlements because, in normal cases, there is already an approved document in each settlement, a strategy document that outlines actions, plans and important steps against the effects of climate change, but there is no resources to implement them. Of course, we are also proposing an amendment to this, to give the central government from state resources to municipalities the necessary funds that are essential for this important struggle. It is a very, very important issue of the state of public transport, both social and economic and environmental aspects, and we find that as we begin a new parliamentary term, there is a new government cycle, there is a new, typically enthusiastic government responsible for the matter, right now there is a Vitézy in the person of David, who otherwise does not speak ill of the general directions he has formulated. So obviously, the profession also demands that there should be a unified, well-organised transport system at national level. At the same time, if we look at the budget figures and look at the government's various plans and policy decisions, we can see that once again the government has come to the point where there is a young Secretary of State responsible for transport policy who says good things, on the other hand you do not do what you are talking about, because we simply do not see the resources in the budget that would support once again the operation of the sector in a very difficult situation and providing an extremely important public service. I am thinking, for example, of the incredible lack of labour in Community transport, simply because people are leaving because of shameful wages and working conditions, and we do not see the measures in this regard, how this could be resolved, so that drivers can be honoured both in terms of wages and in terms of working conditions. Similarly, compared to the previously enthusiastically announced plans, the development of vehicle parks failed, so it is in extremely poor condition and the motor pool of the State Volán bus has grown old. [[15.20]] Similarly, I have already made references to this, and there is also a terrible state of infrastructure where this service should be provided. And that is an incomprehensible and otherwise unacceptable measure, the extension of which, unfortunately, has been confirmed by the pro-government response to a number of my questions, that, with a parliamentary decision in the most difficult time of the epidemic, Fideszes-KDNP representatives simply withdrew the state resources for local public transport support in rural cities. So they simply abandoned rural cities with the provision of local public transport, did not provide support, and this was confirmed for a number of my questions. This decision will remain so, even though you know precisely that there is no city in Hungary that is capable of providing this important service in its own capacity. This is also a wrong decision, and, of course, we have also tabled an amendment to remedy this. I have mentioned, for a sentence, that on the issue of environmental protection, sustainability, we can say that your policy is contrary to these ambitions, but there is a huge step backwards in the budget, which is clearly shown by the figures you have presented. What hurts in itself is that they want to spend less money on nature conservation, while challenges affect our surface waters, our natural rivers, such as the shocking destruction of nature in Sajó's case. By the way, we're getting amazing information about pollution and pollution in the Transylvanian tributaries of the Tisza. It is obvious that this is what the Hungarian government should spend money on, because, on the one hand, we have a duty to protect these rivers, the wildlife of our rivers, but this is obviously linked to drinking water, and it is also linked to agricultural production, because these extremely toxic toxic substances, usually coming from across the border, will have an impact on this sphere. We have also tabled an amendment to remedy this, which would, in this case, increase the possibility and resources of protecting our surface waters by HUF 10 billion. There was one issue in which I felt that the Secretary of State was a bit of a politician, which, by the way, is not usual for you, this is the use of nuclear power and the proposal for investment in Paks. I caught him today, not from a budgetary point of view, but from a positive perspective on the Paks II project. Therefore, not significantly unlike the content of the budget debate, I must respond to this, Mr Secretary of State. On the one hand, I think that it is a huge irresponsible and wrong approach to project the price of electricity produced by the current nuclear power plant into the price of electricity produced by a new nuclear power plant, so they are trying to say how cheap the electricity that Paks II will be will be. It produces you, even though you know that's not true. And if the so-called extern costs that you are not planning are internalized if you can live with such wonderful foreign words, if you just look at the items that you will never count into the so-called cheap prices, such as the cost of decommissioning, the cost of installing nuclear fuels, the cost of network development, which is inevitable again, and the rest, then it is quite clear that it will be extremely expensive, so it will be almost priceless and inexplicably expensive or, more rightly, that Paks II would be. the electricity produced by it. But if we see the horrors that the aggressor Russians have committed, and we see that military attacks have been launched on nuclear power plants, and we can see that nuclear waste dumps have been bombed, it has become clear and this has been confirmed by international organizations and by your former Secretary of State Aszódi, by the way, that these conflicts must have completely discredited your Russian partner in the use of nuclear energy, and on the other hand, increase the expectations and costs of nuclear power plants, simply from the security side. But even by jumping through this, it is clear that the people responsible for the investment that has already been delayed for many years have not been able to answer such fundamental questions as the issue of earthquake security. This is one of the most important points of discussion, according to the latest leaks, and because of that, Paks II is still not licensed. Dear Secretary of State, You have already spent hundreds of billion forints on this Paks II project, with basic questions unanswered. However, I think the incredible irresponsible thing that we can all agree is that if you pour out or burn hundreds of billions of people on a dead-end project like this, it is virtually possible that it will be nothing, based on professional rationality. And then on the other hand, when we make proposals not to ban wind energy in Hungary, or we make a concrete proposal to launch a 300 billion-dollar building energy efficiency package and simply say no. You voted for this 300 billion package without justification, although it could have created tens of thousands of jobs and renovated hundreds of thousands of homes annually. Well, you've already spent so much on the Paks II investment, which is not even licensed. Then allow me one more thing, Mr. Secretary. The issue of nuclear waste management has already been discussed in today's debate. For many long years I have confronted you that your Prime Minister made a clear commitment in 2015 in the city of Pécs that without the consent of the Pécs there will be no nuclear cemetery a few kilometers from the city's western borders. Now, this was confirmed by the former mayor of Fidesz Pécs, who had failed since then, that we would arrive at a phase in 2018, when people there were asked about this project. Well, they haven't done that since, and they're pouring money on this research to an amazing extent. To project si, to build the nuclear cemetery. Overall, about HUF 12 billion has already been spent on this, a clearly dead-end project, which the city has declared is not in its right mind to tolerate such an investment. In the next year's budget, another 1 billion will be planned for this task, double the amount last year. Who will be responsible for spending such a huge sum, another HUF 1 billion after 12 billion so far, on an investment that the people of Pécs have made very clear that they will not tolerate in the neighborhood of the city? And by the way, there are no examples anywhere in the world of building such an object so close to a metropolitan agglomeration. I would add that no permanent storage of high-activity radioactive waste has been built anywhere in the world, so the expansion of Paks in itself is, in fact, a serious irresponsible thing. I would like to refer to one more thing, Mr Secretary of State, which is linked to the brutal Fidesz restrictions on municipalities and the climate situation. It is visible, and we are increasingly experiencing, unfortunately, the brutal effects of climate change, and in what way extreme weather phenomena that have occurred previously, we can say, every decade or even less. A few weeks ago, the entire country was shocked by the huge amount of rain that we had seen almost all over the country in a few hours, and it was seen that in most cities the drainage system could not cope with such precipitation. So here, too, I would like to underline early responsibility with two very thick lines, Mr Secretary of State. If you have restrictions on the municipalities and through these restrictions directly on people, how will you be able to protect the municipalities against such extreme weather phenomena, how can cities, districts and villages protect people from such extreme weather effects? Obviously, we see that you do not perceive or perceive this problem as your own problem, and we are, of course, proposing amendments to this problem. And I'd like to make a few more brief references. Congressman Vinnai spoke about the situation in higher education for a long time. We have had long debates here on outsourcing, you have lied to a change of model in a process that was the outsourcing of Hungarian universities, and you have done nothing but put virtually all Hungarian higher education under fidesz political control with a dictatorship, and, according to your intentions, irreparably, without a time limit. So this is one of the reasons why EU development aid has been withdrawn or wants to be withdrawn, what Hungarian people need and what Hungarian people deserve. So here I refer to how irresponsible it was that you carried out the outsourcing of Hungarian higher education with a dictatorship! There are no development resources that have been promised, which Minister Palkovic promised, that in the event of the change of model, an astonishing, unprecedented amount of development resources will arrive at the Hungarian universities. These have not arrived, but because of the fact that universities have been put in such a position, they even threaten EU development resources. That's incredibly irresponsible. And then, at the end of my speech, I would like to make a few more points, with which I would like to put a question to the honourable Secretary of State. You can see that a lot of policemen have filed their resignations here at the end of the resignation moratorium. How do you want to face this situation? I can hear information from my city, but also from many other cities, about the number of policemen who quit because of outrageously low wages, and the situation with firefighters is similar. I've heard a lot of specific information about how many people have resigned, and how powerful the process is that firefighters now have the opportunity to change their careers, because they simply can't live off the humiliating salaries you're giving them. How do you wish to face this problem, Mr. Secretary of State? [[15.30]] My question may be more pronounced in the light of how much more you are spending on maintaining your policy, on the government, on how much more you spend on next year's budget, for example, on the Presidential Office of the Republic instead of 3.5 billion, on 5.8 billion, on how much more secretary of state is already in their system and on how much more Deputy State Secretary. So you can see that, not only did you start saving on yourself, you do not want to save on yourself at all, while you are unable to deal with the fundamental system problems that determine the everyday life of Hungarian people, you are plagued by amazing and brutal restrictions on Hungarian people through local governments and other spheres. I very much hope that the Secretary of State will not give us political, but professional, policy responses. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-06-23-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. That brings us to the end of round two. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I'll give you the floor first, Gy. Mrs Erzsébet Németh, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-23-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I regret that our fellow Member Nacsa from the Christian Democratic People's Party, who spoke in this round, did not wait for at least the end of this circle to be able to respond to what he said here. I'd like to respond quickly to three things in these two minutes. The first is that the Member has thrown it at us, to those who are sitting on the other side of the parliamentary horseshoe, that the 13th month's pension was forced to do so, and I am the only one who has taken it away from pensioners. I wanted to ask Congressman Nacsa why they hadn't given him this pension for 11 years. They would have had the opportunity to do so, we saw on the billboard that Hungary is performing better. If that were true, the 13th month pension should have been given to pensioners not only in the year of the election, but even long before that. His second condition was that the country spends more on health and education next year than ever before. I would also like to hear from him why Hungarian health is in such a state that Hungarians are forced to go to private health, since one third of every source spent in health care is now moving to private health. And why, unfortunately, in education, do surveys and results show such a negative trend as they show? Maybe these money don't go to the right place, don't you think they're going to what the fidesz majority are going to do? Very quickly in the end, I would like to say two sentences about the municipalities, which I would like to say to Mr State Secretary. He said that the municipalities were given high support. No, they don't, Mr. Secretary. You said your support was up by 95 billion. On the other hand, on the side of the solidarity tax, they take 88 billion from the municipalities from the so-called solidarity tax. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-23-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Zoltán Vajda, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-73	Thank you very much for the floor. At the beginning of this round, I listened with interest to Mr. Lajos Kósa's very long speech, in which, I think, he also spoke about Fanta and margarine and had all sorts of interesting anecdotes. At the beginning of his speech, he said that this is the 33rd budget he is taking part in. I was also a little worried, because at the end of his comment, the euro was again 400 HUF, unfortunately, but Mr Kósa had this effect on the Hungarian exchange rate. But I do not want to talk about Mr Kósa, but about the fact that this is my first debate on the budget in Parliament. I can honestly say that I was pleased to note that Mr. Secretary of State, who represents the Ministry of Finance and the Government, is not about politicalizing, he is not saying the usual terrible mantra of Fidesz, but he is saying about professional things, but he has just struck my ear by the fact that he has started to use a phrase that is the new creation of the Habony-Rogán works, the word "war inflation" you have started to use again, Mr. Secretary of State. Help me see if you can do me the honor of responding to what you're basing on the fact that current inflation in Hungary is the result of war! We saw that inflation is now 10.7% in May. Let me go back a month in the last few days. I just watched it on purpose. In April of this year it was 9.5, one month before that, in March 8.5, in February 8.3, in January 2022 7.9, last year in de-cember 7.4, in November before that, also in October 7.4, in October 6.5, in September 5.5, and in roughly 21 times, inflation remained in an ideal, approximately 3 percent band. Secretary of State, with all due respect, why is it war inflation that begins to rise dramatically before the war? I indicate that inflation is already 5.5 percent in September last year, and since then it has been growing steadily every month from month to month. With all due respect, take a look at your calendar, it was February 24, 2022 that the aggression of Putin against Ukraine started on February 24, 2022. Do me the honor of not using this Habony-Rogan creation, but a professional expression. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-23-74	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members for a two-minute speech. [[No one's reporting.]] No, thank you very much. Secretary of State Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I always welcome the professional debate between the walls of the Parliament regarding the seriousness of the bill, so I am trying to give a professional answer to questions of a professional nature. I'll start with the last question about war inflation. As an economist, Mr President, you know exactly the numbers and you know that the economic downturn caused by Covid had an anti-inflationary effect. It also knows that, as with the re-opening of the economies after Covid, economic recovery has had an inflationary impact due to the recovery of demand, the supply that has been interrupted at some point. The supply has been interrupted, and we often say that the production chains are breaking up, so this in itself has an inflation-enhancing effect. Yet the term war inflation, I think, is used factually, and this is not a fictional marketing text, but I believe it is the reality, because energy prices were a radical increase. If the congressman looks at the effect of a reduction in Russian transport in the first pipeline of the Nord Stream last week, he can see that it has a 20-30% effect. If there's any speculation as to why this is happening, we can't distract you from war and sanctions. So the increase in energy prices we've seen over the last few months is clearly linked to the war. Once. Why do we say war inflation a second time? Mr President, Congressman, you know exactly what Ukraine, the Chernozjom, is doing in cereal production. Well, it's all over the news that they can't take the grain to Africa, and what a price-enhancing effect that has. But we also know what agricultural production is in Russia. If they're at war, they don't focus on agriculture. We see the effects of inflation. So we are talking about war inflation. [[Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] Congressman, please, let's take a look. I repeat, my logical procession was that after Covid, there was a growth. But this growth was violently destroyed by war. He was struck hard by war. Let's take a look. [[Zoltán Vajda and Gy. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] Everywhere! I can hear what they're saying, Congresswoman. That's why there's war inflation. In a globalised world... [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: But in other countries?]] Excuse me, Congresswoman, let me finish, obviously Mr President will give you an opportunity, and I would just like to say factually that the war has effects that are felt all over the world. Some heavy metals are mined exclusively or almost exclusively in Russia. I think that if we do a deep analysis, which I do not want to burden the Honourable Parliament with, how the prices of different products and services have evolved, then the Member, as an economist, will find a correlation, a very strong link in the change in the prices of war and of various products and services. Yes, it also has its effect in Hungary, as it does in Estonia, where it is above 20% based on the latest Eurostat data series. Latvia, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Poland, Romania, Slovakia are all ahead of us in inflation. Unfortunately, this is an extremely negative thing, and we are sure that inflation will be with us for a considerable period of time. Therefore, I think that everyone who speaks out against inflation should speak out for peace. It's in our mutual interest to make peace as soon as possible. As far as the other professional points are concerned, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, I am sorry, but I cannot, out of deep professional conviction, identify with the wording that Mr. Especially in relation to the municipalities. Forgive me, Mr President, in the draft budget law, show me one single measure which would define the support of local governments or even the solidarity contribution on the basis of the party status of the government. [[15.40]] Just show me one of these items. So when we talk about the municipal system, I also believe in the other items mentioned by the Member that he is right, that we cannot solve all problems overnight. So if you say that the municipalities also have a number of tasks, which would be good to provide additional resources for, or if you say that it would be good to provide additional resources for water utility systems, then I fully agree with you. However, if I look at the economic policy on which we have drawn up next year's budget bill, I believe that, also in the European context, there has been a substantial construction in this country since 2010 and that we can make progress every year. What does this mean in particular for municipalities? Lot. Erzsébet Németh also mentioned the municipalities. Well, after 2010, we know exactly what kind of situation we were in. Between 2011-2014, municipalities were freed from debt of HUF 1370 billion. After the debt consolidation in the following years, we saw a stable operation, I would add, even during the coronal virus epidemic. Let me give you some numbers. You're always talking about brutal restrictions. At the end of 2020, the government's treasury and commercial bank funds amounted to HUF 1048 billion. The latest figure is 1332 billion HUF in the first quarter of 2022, based on the local government's own accounts. This is 208 billion HUF higher than the data seen during the same period of the previous year. The 2023 budget therefore assumes that, on the basis of the local authorities' own accounts, we see a stable financial system and we assume that next year, hopefully, as a result of economic growth, local government's main revenue, business tax revenue, will increase. Ha Gy. Erzsébet Németh will look at the data in the capital, and you will see that the annual business tax revenue increased by 60 percent between 2014 and 19 before the coronal virus outbreak. If we had only increased like the EU average, this would have been many tens of billions of forints less. So we hope that we can sustain economic growth, and that this economic policy will result in additional revenue for the municipalities. I repeat, we have a job to do, which is true in a number of areas, including wages. But when they talk about public sector wages, let's see how we got ahead. Again, we have a job to do. We're working to make it even bigger. But between 2010 and 2023, on the basis of the proposal submitted, public finances will increase by 96 percent. The cumulative inflation is 46.2 percent. So the wage rise is double as high as inflation. This inflation figure includes, or, as I mentioned, this year's high inflation figures. We can not always raise wages for everyone, but there are also significant wage increases in next year's draft budget law, for example, to raise the wages of doctors. As far as water utilities are concerned, I have always agreed with the Member that we have a task in this area, as well as with the municipalities, because water utilities are largely owned by local governments. When we talk about who has responsibility, and sometimes I encounter specific problems, when I see that a given municipality has a source, and let's say, look at the years before Covid, it had a source, but it doesn't invest in the water utility company, we can also talk about the fact that not only the state has a responsibility, but also the owners' municipalities. But again, I agree with you that this is an extremely important issue that you have said, and I hope that in the coming years we will be able to maintain economic growth and provide substantial resources in this area, as I hope that EU funds for Hungary will be at our disposal, and, for example, investment in water utilities, we will be able to finance new investments from European Union funds. As far as pensioners are concerned, Gy. I would therefore like to draw the attention of Mrs Erzsébet Németh to the fact that this is a 13th month pension, and it was not only the 13th month pension that was taken away, but also the real value of normal pensions before 2010. In 2010, I think it was a serious undertaking of the National Assembly at that time to decide to preserve the real value of pensions and to fulfil that commitment. When planned inflation was higher than the fact, it never took pensions back. As a result, the purchasing value of pensions is now about 20 percent higher than if inflation had been the only increase. I would also remind the honourable Parliament that, yes, we did not have the financial resources to return the 13th month pension in the early 2010s. But when economic growth made it possible to pay a pension premium based on an indicator above 3.5 percent, there was a pension premium every year. Every year I remember it from 2016, and there were also one-off benefits, overhead payments, or Elizabeth's voucher. He is talking about pensioners; I think that this is precisely why the protection of rent is a priority, since in the consumer basket of pensioners there is a greater share of the rent. I would also ask the Member to consider this when voting on next year's proposal for a budget law, including the Rezsefence Fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-23-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Before we begin the third round, I would like to inform this House that there is still a 14-minute window for proposals for amendments to be tabled. Thank you very much. I now address Congresswoman Maria Kállai of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-23-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Continuing with Mr Secretary of State's thoughts, I think that, having learned the basics of the 2023 budget, listening to Minister's presentation, we can again say that, in the draft budget for this year, as much as we see this world differently, everything is together to be sound, flexible, feasible and responsible. I say this, as the Minister said, in fact, since 2008, since the last economic crisis, the conditions for budget planning have not been as difficult as they are now. Dear Parliament, On 3 April, the Hungarian people said yes again by two thirds to a very broad sense of security and growth. The focus of the 2023 budget is on cuts in overhead, defence and security. Following the events of the world, we have every reason. Overall, we can say that the planned 4.1 percent increase, the planned deficit target, the planned declining debt ratio, and the planned inflation both show responsibility in the language of numbers. This is supported by the opinion of the Fiscal Council. This year, the former Secretary of State, said the same thing, can build on the construction of previous years in a stable manner, since the budget measures of previous years, which create jobs, boost the economy, value families and pensioners, are still part of this budget. At the same time, it is a very important and responsible proposal to set up the Rehabilitation and Defence Fund, especially if we see how to finance it, as they are taxes collected from an extra-profit sector. We can conclude that almost all sectors can manage more resources in the coming year. Some highlights: we can spend HUF 730 billion more on pensions, 200 for education, 100 for health care and 450 billion for families. This is clearly based on the growing Hungarian economy and on the peak employment. Dear Parliament, This is a very serious achievement, since it is no doubt that the pandemic and the prolonged war have a serious impact on our whole world. In the following, I would like to make a few points about public education; in fact, we see that this year, and in 2023, it manages from several sources. The system is highly recognised, as the performance of the last year has also produced excellent results in very difficult circumstances. Two worlds are pre-2010 and current conditionality. Unfortunately, we need to remember the dismissal of teachers, the taking of one month's wages, the skyrocketing of textbook prices, the pursuit of government debt of HUF 1370 billion. [[15.50]] It must be said that the first community was the community of teachers who received a wage increase. Since 2010, this has been a two-and-a-half-fold increase, but this does not mean that there is no need to continue to settle wages, the government has also stressed the need for this on several occasions. Dear Parliament, We are nearing the end of the school year, and listening to the results of schools, reading their report, talking to teachers, families, we can again thank teachers for their work. If we add the developments of the last year, which in 2023 actually appear on the operating side, then only a few highlights: 30 new schoolhouses, 39 new gymnasiums, hundreds of locations for school renovations, 4 thousand job supply locations for digital developments. I could put it all together, but that is not the purpose of today's line of thought. Overall, we can say that the draft budget ensures safe operation, free textbook care, free meals, catching up, special education needs, conditions for going to compulsory kindergarten, talent development. Of course, we all know that public education is the area where continuous development is needed. Yes, the career model must be renewed, the teacher's performance assessment should also be renewed, but it should be recognised that the 2023 budget allows responsible, meaningful work to be carried out. The other area, which is very important for all of us, is the area of culture itself. If we approach it at the level of feelings, we can say that I am convinced that, with the economic strengthening of the last 12 years, it has brought with it the recovery of cultural life, access to the unparalleled values of our national culture, and cultural services have greatly improved. Pandemic has also created a number of creative ideas, and the Hungarian government has done a great deal to support artists and artistic productions, in any case facilitating the very difficult situation of this sector during the pandemic. We can say that in the whole spectrum of arts, excellent works are created, our artists at home and throughout the world strengthen the appreciation of our country, and we cannot go without saying a word about the development of institutions. At the level of feeling, all of this means that in all retail forums, discussions, or in my own home, but also with a national outlook, we are always getting serious recognitions of this area, and I am convinced that this is not unique. But let's look at this with a few highlights from the budget point of view, not just at the level of feelings. We may also agree that one of the most important cultural strategic issues is the access to libraries and public education in everyday life in the smallest settlements, because cultural basic supply, participation in cultural values, I think is elementary citizenship and opportunity. In this, we know that local governments and local institutions have a very important role to play, but it is important to highlight the amount provided by the budget for the provision of library and public education tasks for municipalities, which was set by the budget at a minimum of HUF 1.2 million in 2015, but it is important to see that, as the economy allowed, the current draft will double in 2021, 2022 and 2023, and there is at least the so-called amount, which means that if it does not reach this number in a settlement of 70 people, let us say, that 1 million HUF 200 thousand will increase to HUF 2 million 270 thousand. Obviously, everything can be improved, but it has to be said that this is a major step forward, as is the Déryné programme, the Lázár Ervin programme, the Sándor Csoóri programme, which offers significant opportunities throughout the country and throughout the nation. Annex 3 to the draft budget law sets out the title of support for the tasks of county-wide urban museums. Compared to the 2022 budget, a HUF 1 billion higher grant is foreseen. For the professional tasks of public collections and public education, the bill envisages virtually HUF 3.7 billion, which is also significantly more than last year. The government also allocates additional resources at the draft level to the operation and performance of cultural strategic institutions in 2021-2025. Some of these lists: the Hungarian National Archives will receive HUF 1.5 billion in additional support for its tasks; the National Széchényi Library, as a national library, plans to grant HUF 3.7 billion in 2023, which is also significantly more than last year, with HUF 1.2 billion; the Mindszenty Museum, the Báthori István Museum, the Árpád-ház programme. We also know that many wonderful cultural buildings and wonderful institutions have been handed over. Some highlights: the House of Hungarian Music, the Museum of Ethnography, but the Csiky Gergely Theatre, the Nyíregyháza Outdoor Theatre, the Liszt Academy, the Transylvanian region of the Open Air Museum of Szentendre. The source is available for each of them to function, to serve society, and our cultural institutions are constantly building up. We can also say that the whole country is rich in experiential, demanding festivals and cultural programs, which is particularly important now after the pandemic, because we are fulfilling the basic wishes of communities and society. Dear Parliament, At the end of the highlights, we must inform those who work in this great system. In 2017, additional cultural salaries were introduced in the cultural sector of civil servants. This resulted in an average increase of 15 per cent for more than 20,000 civil servants in the sector, to which the state budget provided HUF 5.5 billion. In 2020, the change of legal relationship and the associated 6 percent increase in wage were another step. Hungary's economic performance again offered an opportunity: from 1 January 2022, the workers of the cultural sphere received an additional 20% increase in wages. As the Secretary of State has said, wage increases obviously need to go forward step by step, but I think that every step should be valued. Overall, we can say that there is more resources available for culture in 2023 from the Hungarian budget, and that the rest of its funding legs obviously enrich this. Dear House, All in all, I think that, as long as the left is under control, the reality shows that tax cuts, pension increases, wage increases this year, if we count them in the budget, will reach HUF 3300 billion. As Minister Varga said, our aim is to protect Hungary from the war economic crisis, and therefore to preserve family support, the value of pensions and wage increases, to reduce budget deficits and public debt. I am convinced that, regardless of the political side, it is our joint responsibility to say yes, taking into account the interests of the Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy, this responsible planning serves this purpose. Members of the Fidesz support the proposal, and I trust that all our fellow Members will do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-78	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The deadline for submitting amendments is two minutes. We'll get back to work. Mr Balázs Barkóczi, from the DK Group, will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Annex XV is amended as follows: I have sworn as an individual parliamentary representative of the district and Újpest that I will always represent the interests of the inhabitants of my constituency, the 12th Constituencies of Budapest, here in the Parliament. However, from the budget of the three strikes in Orbán, which Fidesz has just presented, we see that the people of Crab Palota, Pestújhely, New Palota and Újpest again cannot count on anything good: tax increases, austerity, withdrawals, 400 HUF, brutal food price increases and passed-on special taxes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you are offering this to the Hungarian people, including the people of North Pest. As we have been getting used to since 2019, Fidesz has also adopted a budget of 2023 for the opposition-led municipalities, including the XV. District and Újpest are being punished. That is the case, Mr. Secretary of State, which is why they are being thrown out of the utility system, which is why in the last two years alone more than HUF 7 billion has been taken away from the XV. from the district, and that's why they send billions more to the lying propaganda in Orbán instead of using this money to develop environmentally friendly public transport in the city, so that new low-floor, air-conditioned CAF trams can run on both lines 69 and 62. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Therefore, they will not reduce the face called the solidarity tax to the 2011 level, although with this money the New Palota Market Hall could be renewed, the new district swimming pool in the former North-Pest Hospital could be built, so that we will not even talk about the possibility that if you reboot the panel program you canceled in 2011, we might have a chance to modernise more than 15,000 panel apartments in energy. [[16.00]] But the government does not care about the proper health care of its residents, because your government wants to reduce public health expenditure below 4 percent of GDP, which is not only below the 7 percent EU average, but does not even reach the regional average. I'll talk to anyone at the 15th. in the district and in Újpesten, almost everyone complains about the same thing: the long waiting lists, the overloaded doctors and nurses, the crumbling hospitals. We can remember that when Fidesz closed the Árpád Hospital in Újpest in 2014 and the active care at Károlyi Sándor Hospital was stopped, the supply of some 1.5 million inhabitants of the North-Pest region was also due to the already overloaded Honvéd Hospital. But let me tell you something else: your Fidesz mayor and former Member of Parliament on the 15th floor. During Tamás László's regnation in the district, the construction of the office was started, where the contractor consortium won the public procurement did not finish the work, and the building was handed over at 22 percent level of readiness. As a result of the sloppy work and the interrupted investment and execution, the municipality initiated a litigation procedure to compensate the contractor for its legitimate damage. By the way, the stumped building has been uglinessing the Christmas Benő Park ever since. Annex XV is amended as follows: As district and Újpest's responsible parliamentary representative, I therefore submitted, among other things, the following amendments to the general budget of 2023: to ensure that the already mentioned Deák street clinic is built and completed, with a budget of HUF 1 billion, so that adult-hospital practitioners, child-hospital practitioners on Sződliget street, and the patroness' advisory district can finally be placed in a new and modern office building after many years. The second is: it also takes HUF 1 billion to replace the current, antiquated, antiquated and cost-stealing GP's office with a new, the XXI. In every aspect of the company's needs, a doctor's office should be built. In addition, they will return the einstanded clinics to the residents and build the new 230 active concubine hospital in North-Pest from 16 billion forints, whose concept, plans have already been made in the framework of a greenfield investment, as this will serve the health of the residents, the interests of the people of Crab Palota, Pestújhely, New Palota and Újpest and the hundreds of thousands of people living in the agglomeration. Of course, there would be plenty of money for these expenses if it were not for you to support your own apparatus, your own propaganda, or the salary increase of the Prime Minister and the ministers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, There are, of course, two ways to go, but if the amendments tabled by me are voted down, for the many time they prove that they are not on the side of the people of Crab Palota, Pestújhely, New Palota and Újpest, but on the side of their own oligarchs and propagandaists. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-80	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to give the floor to Attila Gelencsér, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I, like the previous speaker, my fellow Member, Barkóczi, who looks at the budget from the aspect of his own constituency to the budget number 23, look at this law in the same way as the most important law of this year, myself as an individual elected Member, yet it is as if we were living in an alternate reality, because I came to completely different conclusions than he did. For some reason, he sees a bad Hungary, he sees a difficult situation, and I see successes, results, and a lot of meaningful steps in my constituency, which I would like to recall in this budget debate, and to look for links to what we have achieved so far, what kind of help the budget of 23 can provide us, what guarantees, what guarantees can it provide us. So, to change budget 23 into small change for Kaposvár and Zselic, a rural town and its small settlement of 25 agglomerations; to see what such a huge number is, which is shown in the final number of budgets 23, what this means in everyday life in Kaposvár and Zselic; to have money for the most important issues, I would like to simplify my comment here. First of all, I would like to say that there is a war, and in a budget debate, which is typically very defined by the fact of war, we must not go home without saying that we in Kaposvár and Zselic expect peace, security, security of supply and protection of low overhead, and we expect this budget to do so. In other words, we must protect the security of the Kaposvár and the zselici, the reduction of the rent, the jobs of the local economy, the support of families, and we must protect the progress we have made so far with regard to pensioners. The budget therefore includes a Rehabilitation and Defence Fund. The income of the funds in 23 is more than HUF 1500 billion, which comes from extra-profit individuals and other expenses. The Kaposvárs also expect, Mr Secretary of State, that the sectors which have made or acquired extra profit in this war situation will also contribute to the protection of the country. Let's take a look at what's going on here on welfare matters. So far, we've always had to protect the overhead costs from Brussels, the left and the market, and we've learned that in the last few years, and the thing is, he's put a shovel on it. [[Zoltán Vajda: The Putin!]] As was said here in the previous debate, the war. The impact of war on energy prices cannot be overlooked. By the way, we have achieved that we have reached Europe's cheapest cost of overhead by 2022. When I listen to opposition contributions that see a very gloomy world, they are unable once, simply genetically unable to say that it is good. [[Zoltán Vajda: Genetically?]] Thank you very much, it's in your blood, in your soul, that you can't just talk about it. I don't know why they're so against it, why it hurts them, it's weird to me. So, 18 billion forints in and around Kaposvár was reported in the process of reducing the rent. I would also have liked to have heard from Congressman Barkóczi what this means in Újpesten. They're cold for some reason. One and a half times as much fuel could be bought from the minimum wage already at the end of 21 and at the beginning of 22 as in 2010. So, we do not want to hear Péter Márki-Zay's sentences about accepting market prices, we do not want to eat less, and we do want to incorporate a social component into this. Let's check out the pensioners. There are 18,000 pensioners living in my constituency, who have been given everything in order, the pension premium, the pension increase, the 13th month pension, the. But here too, let me give you some interesting songs I don't hear from the other side: 1219 ladies have lived with the, Women 40. In 2010, the average pension was 85 thousand forints, and now 170,000 forints. It is reassuring that the amount of budgetary resources that can be used for retirement benefits will be close to HUF 4900 billion next year. The budget of 2023 allocates more than 370 billion HUF for the 13th month pension. Family matters, family benefits. The family tax relief, which was HUF 400 million in 2009, became HUF 8 billion by 2022. That's a 20-fold increase. Let's see what happens to mothers with more children: in their case, we can talk about 230 taxpayers in Kaposvár who received the discount. What about the family tax refund? Dear Parliament, Nearly 6,000 taxpayers received HUF 5 billion back from this grant. 500 taxpayers in Kaposvár and Zselic took advantage of the first married ones. There are 2600 people under the age of 25 in my constituency, who have and will continue to be free of personal income tax. [[16.10]] Otherwise, the number of marriages is on record in 1986, and the number of divorces is low in 1985. 1271 babies were born in Kaposvár's renewed obstetrics only in the previous year, and now there are 5,600 children in the Kaposvár life tree. All I can think about is seeing a healing society all over the country, but also in Kaposvár and Zselic. Free meals because I also looked at the source of this, that you have the budget for next year and the free textbooks, which is extremely important. In 2010, 438 people were entitled to a free meal, 1343 in 2022. Free textbooks were available in 2010 in 2677, 13 779 in 2021, and five times the increase. In my view, a turning point in the effectiveness of the family support system can be achieved if the child's children are guaranteed a better standard of living than if they did not have children. This is the point we're looking for, I think that's the point the government is looking for, that's what we're trying to achieve, that's where it's going to tip over. So what do we see in budget year 23? It means that family support will increase by HUF 650 billion. It is very safe that the tax and contribution allowances for families, with the benefit of the first married couple, are expected to exceed HUF 370 billion next year. In this budget next year, HUF 155 billion will be spent on the Saja-freeness of people under the age of 25. From the introduction of the family tax system, i.e. from 2011 until the end of next year, there will be a total of HUF 3620 billion in Hungarian families. It is reassuring for us that next year the budget will provide more than HUF 490 billion for the continuation of the home creation programme. Compared to 2010, the amount available for housing subsidies is nearly 3.5 times higher. Next year, support for children's meals will continue to grow. In 23, nearly HUF 100 billion is already available for this purpose. This is about HUF 67 billion more than in 2010. The free textbook service has become fully free from the 2020/21 academic year. For this purpose, the government will spend more than HUF 13 billion next year. Let us look briefly at the investments at the end of my speech. Pécs was the subject of a major debate in the previous debate, and the situation in Pécs cannot be different from that in Kaposvár, which could not develop from government support before 2010, but from bond issuance and credit. Compared to this, I think we are somewhere in the 300 billion HUF investment with the programme of modern cities and the funds that have been won since then. I can't tell you without time, the Kaposvár people know and know these developments. But there is also a agglomeration of 25 settlements, where only in the 25 settlements, Honourable Parliament, 40 roads and sidewalks, 17 building energy, 22 children's institutions have been renewed, 19 social institutions, 12 new village buses, 13 offices or community squares, 13 internal water treatment applications, 7 sewage [[Sic!]] . Zselic is actually living the Renaissance, filled with life and momentum again. Looks like living in the country has become fashionable again, living in the Zelic has become fashionable. We want this momentum not to be broken. In addition to community development, we can report more and more on corporate investments in Kaposvár, and what is the greatest pleasure is that beyond the glass factory, which will be implemented with state aid, Kometa is preparing for the most amazing development of its history. The fact is that today, a company called Zselic-Farm is making a HUF 4.5 billion investment in a village in the countryside, which is very welcome. By the way, he's building a glass factory with high-tech technology at 30,000 square meters. So, this Hungary also exists, fellow Members of the opposition. In conclusion, from 2023 and the following years we expect and ask Parliament and the government to build, renovate our bathroom hospital, to build the Kaposvár-Szigetvár bike road, so that we can complete our industrial park in Kaposvár, but there is a lot of interest and we need more places. Our science and innovation park in the smart industry is in a serious preparation situation, we want to be able to get a source, the townspeople love Deseda very much, the construction of the campsite is well prepared, and we do need a job accommodation because of the workforce. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you for the opportunity. I'm honored to have your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-82	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform you that Dr. István Simicskó, Head of the Group, wrote to Dr. László Kövér, President of the Parliament, which I would like to present: Mr. President, I'm sorry. Regulation No 10/2011 on certain house rules. OGY Decision 37. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act on the Central Budget of Hungary in 2023, the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party shall hand over the remaining timeframe for today's meeting to the Fidesz Group. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm gonna need your colleagues to reset the clock. It's done, thank you very much. I now give the floor to Zoltán Sas of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, The previous speech showed excellently that although many of us read this bill, how differently we interpret how different we see it. Obviously, pro-government politicians form a more favourable, supportive opinion, while we here, in the opposition benches, try to formulate a more critical opinion. Nevertheless, I have no doubt that next year's budget will be supported by the pro-government majority, and obviously the opposition votes will be gender, but nevertheless, this House will accept this proposal. However, I would also like to say that it would be very good, what has already been said by many from both government and opposition sides, if there were to be a national unit on issues of major importance, a national minimum. For me, such an important issue is the law enforcement stipend. But before I talk about it, allow me to give you a brief quote. You're gonna need a raise in law enforcement. It has also done good and outstanding work in the management of police, pandemics and migration. One of the main tasks of the next period will be the organisation of salaries for professional staff in the area. Over the past few years, the police have received one-off arms money, but I would like one-off allowances to be included in the staff's salary. I ask for the help of the government and Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, These sentences were delivered last month at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, during the presidential hearing, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior said these sentences. I respectfully agree, in the spirit of the national minimum, with the Minister's statement that the law enforcement salary, the salary of law enforcement workers, must be increased. To be honest, I thought that, yes, it is time, it will be the budget in which the government will increase the law enforcement stipend, because the international security situation, domestic security and public order needs, the illegal migratory pressure on the southern border section, the related police tasks and their difficulties in implementing them, the Russian-Ukrainian war, and the security challenges facing the entire country, and the police tasks caused by the provision of the border section on the eastern border and the entry of war refugees. [[16.20]] The opinions of law enforcement trade unions, workers, ministers, opposition representatives and several pro-government representatives also justify the need to increase the law enforcement salary base. However, I must say to you that this budget is not the budget, because it is not included. I have heard these words for help, and I have decided to submit a proposal for an amendment to the 2023 budget, in which I initiated the increase of the law enforcement salary fund in a visible way. That's what I'm offering you. Why is this question so important? The law enforcement salary has been HUF 38 650 since 2008, i.e. since 14 years. Now, I'm not going to start analyzing how much a kilo of bread cost in 2008, how much a litre of petrol was, or what's most recent today, how much a euro cost, because I don't want to open a political debate on this issue, but I want our police officers to get a decent salary. If we translate these 38 650 forints into monthly earnings, what we need to see is that a junior police officer, a deputy officer, takes home 160,000 forints a month in the order of magnitude. Here, of course, they always say, and yes, they are right, there are various one-off benefits, discounts and other things that increase revenue, but that is the position of the profession, and I think, according to the well-conceived arguments, we should say that these benefits should be incorporated into the law enforcement fund. By raising the law enforcement stipend, salaries also increase, and law enforcement life becomes much more predictable and more predictable. These police officers I'm talking about here, and they're talking about, they're serving in the executive staff. These are the young uniforms who, you know, guard our borders. They are the ones who, with their presence in the public domain, ensure the safety of all of us. They're the ones who, if there's a problem, come first to help. It's just that they're not coming anymore, and they're not coming because they're running out. Unfortunately, in recent years, the number of exits has increased significantly, while the number of new installers, the number of starters, has been steadily decreasing. Why is that? It's clearly because police salary is not attractive, it doesn't keep people in the field. One of 160,000 forints is a junior police officer, and let's add that the uniformed staff, so the vast majority of the deputy officers arrive from the countryside to the capital, cannot support themselves, can't rent a flat for themselves, or if they could rent one for the rental price of the properties in Budapest, then, let's say that they can't support themselves, can't spend it on anyone else. What kind of solutions could they be? Obviously, by raising the law enforcement stipend, we can improve the living conditions of police officers. For ten years, Jobbik has been saying that the introduction of a service-rental housing programme could primarily lead to economic recovery effects, and secondly, we would solve housing problems even in the area of law enforcement. Of course, they can also take into account that, until these measures are introduced, let us say, the VAT on basic foods will be reduced to zero per cent, thus making life cheaper for all Hungarians, and thus making it easier for policemen to make a living. This is a very, very dangerous process, and it is necessary and justified to introduce a police salary increase as soon as possible, as, fellow Members, if the police profession is empty and the unwanted event occurs that the police cannot carry out their statutory duties, I have to say that the operation of the police, which is a fundamental pillar of the state's operation, will also affect the state, in a negative sense, and we have no doubt that this will affect all Hungarian citizens. If there are no policemen, tell me who will be the ones who will protect the borders, who will be the ones who will provide public spaces, who will be the ones who will go out and control traffic in a simple road traffic accident at all. In recent years, we have heard many times from my pro-government colleagues here in the horseshoe that they praised the police: they were excellent in the field of public security, they performed very well in carrying out the tasks of border protection, and they stood their ground at the time of the pandemic. They were spoken respectfully of them, they performed their service fairly, they should be respected, but they should not only give respect for decent work, but also decent wages. In recent times, government communication has come to the point where it has appeared that members of the government have acted in person and have ensured the results of public security in criminal statistics. Believe me, it's not like that. The police are the ones who guarantee the safety of public areas. They're the ones who prevent, detect, and apprehend criminals. 14 years ago, there was a left-wing government in Hungary and an economic crisis. You have said so many times that all the bad measures that these left-wing governments have taken must be changed. I would like to ask you with respect to change this extremely unfair situation without delay and to support the amendment in which I initiated an increase in the salary base for law enforcement workers. Dear fellow Members, On the basis of the principle of national minimum and national interests, I must also say that the defence part is part of this budget proposal. The financial instruments for defence, I think, are fully capable and it is commendable that this amount of money is planned to be spent on it, because this war period, the international security situation, poses extraordinary dangers for our country, and I believe, and as an opposition politician, I dare say that with this budget, the defence will be able to fulfil the tasks that lie ahead of us. However, I would also like to suggest that you pay attention to the fact that the most modern military equipment is managed by people, and that we do not proceed with the law enforcement stipend, although the defence stipend is higher, but we should not go there without this extremely important area of expertise. As chairman of the National Security Committee, let me also say a few words about the budget for both military and civil national security services. Here, too, I have to say that these funds for development and operation, in the current extremely difficult situation, seem to be suitable for improvements that will enable these services to guarantee the security of Hungary more effectively. This is an extremely difficult task, since this Russian-Ukrainian war and spying activity, which has reminded the world of the period of the Cold War in recent times, its appearance in Hungary and, most importantly, the elimination of this is an extremely important task, and with the continuous change of technology, this is an increasingly difficult and expensive task. As important for the functioning of the Hungarian state are the various economic processes, or the acquisition of information about Covid, so that those entitled to the decision can be prepared in time by the staff of the secret services. I hope that in the Hungarian national security services these developments will be implemented legally and in the interests of the Hungarian nation. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of law enforcement and security, I would also like to say a few words about the safety of transport, which is one of the foundations of public security. [[16.30]] I have tabled some amendments to this issue, and I would like to offer them these with respect. First, allow me to mention a development proposal for my narrower living environment, Pécel. It is located in Pécel Pest county, in the agglomeration of Budapest, and in the last five years the population has increased by 10 percent, so the city has a total population of over 17 thousand inhabitants. In the same way as the inhabitants of the other settlements of the agglomeration, the majority of them commute, so they go to the capital to work, to school or to do other things. In the morning, home in the afternoon. This represents a very significant increase in traffic, despite the fact that many people are taking advantage of the benefits of rail transport, but still many people are using roads, taking part in road transport either individually or by public transport. As a result, you can hear on the radio in the morning news that there are constantly plugs in the area. From downtown Pécel to main road 31, which is one of the biggest traffic highways in the region, road 31102. You can see from this number that this is a five-digit journey, which is called a small trip, but in terms of traffic and its importance, this is an extremely important road, because you can get to road 31 here and reach the largest shopping malls in the region. Unfortunately, the condition of this road cover is so bad that it is extremely dangerous to travel on it. It further complicates the situation that, where road 31102 leads to main road 31, and here I have to acknowledge the work that professionals have done on road 31 in recent months, because they have created a high-quality asphalt road, at that junction there is a simple sign sign crossing, and in the morning and afternoon hours it is almost impossible to get to the left in a large way because of the extremely heavy traffic. It is extremely dangerous, there have been countless accidents at this intersection, so I also suggested that a roundabout be established here. This is also beneficial for traffic dynamics and could also guarantee traffic safety. Let me continue with another relief proposal, which already concerns Highway 21. Currently, the 21 would continue on a four-track road bypassing Salgótarján to Somoskőújfalu, where there is also a border post. This would be partly about speeding up traffic, dynamics, making it safer, or reducing traffic pressure and environmental pressures in Salgótarján's inner area, and, in Hungarian, less smoke would be added to the lungs of Salgótarján's residents. Plans have already been made for the investment, so please don't let them lose either. Last but not least, I would like to draw attention to the continuation of the renovation of Highway 441, which is specifically the section linking Nagykőrös to Cegléd. I have also tabled an amendment in this area, so please make it possible for road users to pursue their social interest in road safety, and those who are on the road and waiting for them at home can safely get home. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-23-84	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mónika Bartos. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said in the debate on next year's budget over the past few days and over the past few hours, but I think we all agree that the dark cloud of the Covid-19 pandemic has not yet been truly dissolved, and we are already living in another crisis, in the shadow of a war. Yesterday, the difficulties caused by the Covid-19 pandemic were also addressed by Mr István Hiller, who graphically illustrated and told us how much damage this pandemic has caused to children's souls and progress. I am very pleased that Congressman Hiller raised the difficulties caused by Covid-19, because in recent days the shadow of the war has been so severe for our lives, and it is also true for our present that we are no longer talking seriously enough about the legacy of the Covid-19 pandemic. It is also true that if we look at this and relive our memory, gather our experiences, these could mean compasses for us to deal with and how we need to deal with the current crisis. It is true that the previous crisis, the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, played a major role for the government, the operational tribe, the doctors, the workers, but most probably the result of a social cooperation. So success was the result of a social cooperation that everyone took part in, because they did their job, either by following the rules, or by making sacrifices for others, or by paying attention to themselves and the people around them. So this is a total national achievement, and for that there is a great deal of thanks to everyone. And it is also true that in the worst period of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 epidemic, very, very much attention was paid to the elderly, as they and the people with chronic diseases were the most at risk. When I spoke yesterday in the debate, I also addressed the issue of defence, and I would now like to remind the elderly once again how much the soldiers have done to protect the elderly and the sick. And I mean not only the disinfection of nursing homes, or the lion's share in the operation of hospitals, as well as the provision of health and other protective equipment, but they also provided helpful support at the injection points, which I think we all remember with a good memory. So this case, the defense against Covid, is one of the great examples of civil-military cooperation. But, as Congressman Hiller said yesterday, young people should be thanked for being patient and understanding in this utopian situation, and waiting for their turn in the vaccination order, because they wanted to protect the lives and health of their grandparents. Meanwhile, they also did their job, learned and coped with the challenges of digital education. I wish to underline that in times of crisis, we can be successful if we can count on each other. And it is evident that, both during the previous crisis and during the current crisis, there is a great deal of attention being paid to the elderly. Only one aspect of social appreciation is that the government is committed to preserving the value of pensions, the institution of the pension premium and the 13th month pension, which has already been fully returned to pensioners this year after the end of 2009. In order to enable the government to fulfil its commitment in 2010 to protect the real value of pensions, it planned a 5.2 percent increase in pensions in the 2023 budget. Next year, we are expecting a 4.2 percent economic growth, and the government wants the old people to benefit from its fruitage, so it has put HUF 21 billion in a special reserve to pay the pension premium. Several of my fellow Members have mentioned it, and I also consider it very important to recognise the essential role and work of women in the family. The government is also prepared to do so and ensures that, after 40 years of eligibility, pension benefits under the age limit continue to be used. This is also covered in next year's budget. And those who want to do so can also work after the retirement age, because as Minister Mihály Varga confirmed yesterday, the government will continue to maintain the social contribution tax and contribution exemption of pensioners' incomes for the future. Another element, which is also important and worthy of mention, will include a higher amount in 2023 for events worthy of special appreciation and for pension provision on a fair basis. [[16.40]] So, overall, there were a lot of numbers, but in 2023 we spend 4900 billion forints on pensions. Mr. Secretary of State also mentioned this, and I think it is very important that when we mention the resources for pensioners and pensions, we should not forget the results of the reduction of the rent, as it also affects their everyday lives, and the 670 billion HUF Rezségvédelmi Fund is a means to ensure that Hungarian families and thus Hungarian pensioners continue to pay the lowest rent from among the countries of the European Union. I think that our retired compatriots also enjoy the fruits of a family support system of many elements and opportunities, since our grandparents are an indispensable part of our families, and grandparents can rest assured that their children, their grandchildren' lives and future are assured, are well founded on the opportunities offered by a wide range of family support systems, so that they can turn their pensions into something else and on themselves. The budget before us, as Minister said yesterday, aims to meet three major tasks, thus protecting the results achieved, providing a reserve to prevent unexpected events and, where possible, reducing risks. At the same time, it seeks to provide stability in a very unpredictable world. I think that we can certainly support these objectives. Thank you for your attention, Mr President, fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-86	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Tompos, on behalf of the Group of the Momentum. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we are so familyly here in Parliament at the debate on the budget, then allow me to draw the attention of the Secretary of State in a more relaxed speech on two important matters. But I don't want to play spoiler, so let me start by saying that I live in Elizabeth City, Inner-Erzsébetváros, and I dare say that Elizabeth City together is the V, VI, VIII, IX, XIII. with district parts, so the inner parts of Budapest, are particularly wonderful impressions of the culture, history of the Hungarians, and in general an especially special part. Along with all kinds of problems, including the unsolved party district or even the parking chaos, if you look at the Andrássy road or the Dohány Street Synagogue and its surroundings, but whether it's restaurants, bars, museums or even the City Park, the Danube Coast, you have to say it's a very special section. No wonder many tourists get the impression of what we Hungarians are, what our history is, what our culture is, how we treat each other and how we treat them. I got this a lot, on the one hand, because I live there, and on the other hand, I worked in tourism, it's beautiful, it's really beautiful, it's like Vienna, it's a little more bounced, but it's like Vienna. And to be honest, the impression that Hungarians have pissed off something wonderful in this area, and then left it as it is, it was a recurring feedback constantly. I think that tourists, in general, who think like that, are not very far from reality. Let me bring you two statistics: The housing stock of Erzsébetváros was built before 1945 89.8 percent, and for Terézváros this is 90.1 percent true. In Hungarian, the Hungarians created a part that is quite fantastic, but since we have kept the data, at least since the Second World War it has not been maintained. And before there's a very big uproar here in the pro-government ranks, I don't want to pin this on the Orbán government, I don't think it's the fault of the Orbán government or any other government. I believe that this is one of those decades of problems that we all share, which can be traced back to the period before the Rákosi system, and no one has dealt with it since. You know, my fellow Members, the situation is similar to greening, unfortunately. Those who walk through these parts, as beautiful as they are architecturally, are absolutely unbelievably lacking in green, wood, park, grass, anything. If you look at the statistics, the per capita green surface in Erzsébetváros is 0.5 square meters, the same ratio in Terézváros is 0.4. Now think about getting up and living in a neighborhood where a square foot of green doesn't fall on you. This was recognized by many political leaders, so at the moment the Fidesz-led District V is trying to improve the situation by greening bus stops, and Terézváros launched a street wooding program, quite rightly. At the same time, I think we all know very well that this is a beauty patch without a more serious state aid. Very good initiatives, but real long-term, lasting and comprehensive results can only be achieved with public support in the area of house renovations and greening and urban greening. I would therefore like to ask the Ministry of Finance and the honourable members of the Party of Government to consider, when the budget is planned and the amendments may be accepted, how important it is for the Hungarians, how much it is to display to the outside world, the state in which it is in, and, as there was a condominium renewal programme in 2020, I would ask you to restart it, to have the opportunity for local governments, local communities to apply for deep renovations and urban greening, and at least to start rebuilding this current, many decades of lag, which many governments have simply ignored. I ask your support for this, and we have tabled an amendment, and I very much ask that you support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-23-88	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Zsolt Herczeg. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The budget for 2023 is the budget for debt and defence. A number of areas that support the long-term maintenance of economic growth have been highlighted when drawing up the budget. The focus will continue to be on safety, the preservation of electricity, support for families and the protection of pensioners. The Reserve Fund, which is a separate chapter in the bill, includes the expenditure and revenue appropriations necessary to protect the public's credit levels and to compensate for the increase in energy prices of the bodies under the government's control. The Fund guarantees the achievement of the expected expenditure which may be needed in 2023 in order to ensure the level of prices on the world market. Thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families currently pay the most favourable fees in the European Union. The aim is to continue to maintain the reduction of the rent for the Hungarian population. This is what the Renewal Fund serves, on which the government will spend HUF 670 billion. The war conflict in the neighbouring country poses extremely serious security policy challenges. This new situation calls for strong defences to be maintained, and therefore the continuation of the military development programme is a priority. In the development of defence, according to the new financing model, the operational and development expenditure of the force was planned in a separate chapter, in the Defence Fund, with separate revenue appropriations assigned to it. The planned amount of the fund in 2023 is HUF 842 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, The family is the highest value and, therefore, in this exceptional situation, the priority support for childbearing and child rearing continues. As a father, Grandpa personally I am very pleased that the budget for 2023 contains nearly HUF 3225 billion in family policy spending to support families. [[16.50]] In addition to preserving the cost reduction, the government remains committed to supporting families and improving their quality of life. In particular, the home creation programme continues to play a key role in helping families with children and children to create and renovate their homes. Support for families will be continued by the government through the following measures: guaranteeing family tax and contribution benefits and ensuring that people under the age of 25 are exempt from personal income tax. Maintaining a family tax system based on the appreciation of work and child rearing, which uses one of Europe's lowest single-key personal income taxes, and helping to raise children with a family tax and/or tax reduction. In addition, women with at least four children are exempt from personal income tax during their lives, while young people are encouraged to take part in the labour market and to start their own lives and establish their own family by ensuring that they are less than 25 years of average wage. The tax and contribution allowance for families with the benefit of the first married couple is expected to exceed HUF 375 billion next year. In addition, the government will spend HUF 155 billion next year to ensure that people under the age of 25 are exempt from personal income tax. As part of the family tax and contribution discount, from 2011 until the end of next year, the Hungarian family will have a total of HUF 3620 billion. In the case of the continuation of the home creation programme, the budget will provide more than HUF 490 billion for the continuation of the home creation programme next year. Compared to 2010, the government increased the amount of housing subsidies by nearly three and a half times. The amount of support for children's meals will continue to increase next year, with nearly HUF 100 billion available for this purpose in 2023. This is about HUF 67 billion more than in 2010. Free textbook supply. The free textbook service has become fully free from the 2020/2021 school year. For this purpose, the government will spend more than HUF 13 billion next year. Ladies and gentlemen, Families would not be complete without their grandparents, so our elderly, retired countrymen deserve special support, as they have worked for decades to build the country while raising the future generation. The government's pension policy objectives are to ensure the value of pensions, the long-term sustainability of the pension system, the recognition of women's prominent role in the pension system. For the 13th month pension, the 2023 budget provides HUF 371.8 billion. In addition to the 13th month benefit, the pension premium will remain in 2023, so that older people can benefit from the results of economic growth. In 2023, the government put HUF 24.9 billion in a special reserve for the payment of the pension premium, with an increase in GDP of 4.1 percent. To recognise the role of women in the family, the government continues to provide women with 40 years of entitlement with the possibility to use or cover retirement age. The central budget provides HUF 372.4 billion in 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the government of national affairs has not only stabilised the country economically but also financially, balanced the budget and the government debt on a declining path. Despite the war in our neighbourhood, the government's main goal is to maintain the country's financial stability and balance in 2023. I ask you to support the bill in order to achieve the objectives set. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2022-06-23-90	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Zoltán Vajda, on behalf of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Good afternoon. It's nice to talk to you. I'm a little sorry that Fidesz-KDNP is boycotting Parliament, but they may have heard the voice of some opposition voters, although they may not have addressed it to you. There's one thing we agree on. I'm sure there are a lot of things that we agree on, it's always good to start a conversation with someone where we can find a common point. You often stress the role of the family as to how important it is to support families. I agree perfectly with that myself. There may already be a little debate between us that your definition of the family is exactly the same as that of my definition, but it doesn't matter at the moment from the point of view of the budget. I only brought this here because it's worth comparing a country's budget to a family budget. In one way, it is certain that the family determines its own budget, what they think is important, what the priorities are, on which they want to spend their money. In the same way as when we draw up a country's budget, it also shows, in black and white, in the language of numbers, what they think is important and a priority. There's a fundamental difference between, of course, the family playing with their own money and the government playing with our money, but that was another parentheses half-phrase. At the same time, a family can determine what they want to spend on in the next period, when at least they are aware of the past, they are aware of the present, and they have a vision of the future. My question is why we are discussing this budget now. I'm not worried that my summer vacation is difficult for me, even as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, to discuss it in the summer. Why do you insist on adopting next year's budget before this summer? We are not aware of the past, we are not aware of the present, and there is once again a consensus between us that we see together that the future is infinitely uncertain, because even last year's accounts do not fully have the final numbers, we have not completed the first semester of this year, we do not see the next semester, and you want to deal with next year. I carefully asked your Minister, Minister Varga, at the Commission hearing, and he talked about insisting on the tradition that you have for your 13 years, because trust is very important that the market has the confidence to see the budget far away, and that is why it is important. The first thing I would like to touch on is that what we are discussing here is, in fact, a fictitious budget, because its core figures are also likely to change for the next year, when this comes into force, because we agree again on something that is extremely uncertain about the international environment. So my first statement is that the countries following normal European values will discuss next year's budget only in the autumn, at the end of autumn and at the beginning of winter, and you insist that we discuss it now. As a result, what we are seeing this year is that the budget needs to be amended around four days and slowly to 100 times. I am afraid that there is also a awareness that, apart from the two-thirds and the regulation governance, you want an infinite margin of manoeuvre in the budget. In addition to the fact that the budget is fictitious, I think it has unrealistic numbers. Here, too, my colleagues have taken a lot out of this, and I would like to bring back only two macro indicators that I think all Hungarians feel are completely unrealistic in terms of budget planning. I could tell you a lot, because of time, I'd mention only two. One of them is inflation. The inflation rate is 5.2 percent. They say inflation is a tax on poor people, well, especially if we consciously underdesign it, as you have done. I think they're consciously planning a bottom line, because they say, for example, that they're raising it by 5.2. If there is more inflation, of course, it may be compensated later, but in any case the Hungarian people, the Hungarian pensioners, will give you credit. So I think that there is no man in Hungary today who believes that inflation will be halved in terms of the average of the year next year. [[17.00]] In my previous brief speech, I have already indicated to the Secretary of State that I do not like the term "expansion inflation" which he uses, and I believe that this is the term produced by the propaganda machine, which has somehow been measured by the public opinion researchers who have kept our tax money, that it will again be attractive to people. For me, the term "peace fight" rhymes with a little bit. So, in any case, with war inflation, I can agree with you that the war also has an impact on the rise in inflation, but I can actually prove to you that inflation started to rise last autumn, September 2021. Indeed, the pace of the increase may have accelerated, but only to blame it on the war, I think it's wrong. Let us not talk about the fact that food inflation has become quite dramatic. You guys talk about a food stop, and I think it's another term I made because I don't know a food stop. The price of some products has been maximized. If I open my fridge, I don't see the yogurt, the sour cream, the cheese, the sausage, the vegetables, the fruit, and I don't see any more maximizing the price. The price of some of the priority products was only maximized. My third argument, for which I believe that this is a fictitious budget at the moment, and operating with unrealistic numbers, is the euro exchange rate they are planning. It is planned at a price of HUF 377 next year and is planned at a price of HUF 346. Well, although the exchange rate improved a bit yesterday, it increased around HUF 395, unfortunately by this afternoon or early afternoon the euro price again exceeded 400 forints. I have one picnic with parentheses: I have had the pleasure of listening to the speech by Mr Lajos Kósa, and I hope that the market has not responded to this. If I remember correctly, there has been an example of this before, but I hope that this is not how the exchange rate works, but, unfortunately, the exchange rate of the euro is now again 400 forints. How can we plan with EUR 377 and HUF 346 when, for example, the dollar is now around 380 forints? My last macro problem with the budget is their planning for EU money. You are counting on some EUR 2000 billion of money, which we all desire to receive, and we all urge you to arrive, but at the moment the European Union is the money that we are entitled to, which is the EU's taxpayers' money, we do not think it will give to us as long as you continue to steal; to say this in a fairer way: until anti-corruption measures are taken. In total, we are talking about HUF 16,000 billion in the EU cycle as a whole, but this is EUR 40 billion, and it is very easy to multiply by HUF 400, unfortunately, this is HUF 16 000 billion. To say a macro approach: this is about a quarter of GDP, but perhaps it is worth saying that it is 4 million forints per Hungarian household that can come to us in the next EU cycle and which you risk by refusing to introduce anti-corruption measures, for example. Instead, what do they do? For example, they had to introduce a HUF 2000 billion cut in this budget. This means 200,000 forints for all Hungarians as a restriction for next year. My other problem is that the sovereign debt is rising nominally, of course, and I see that there is a minimum percentage reduction. My problem is the dramatic increase in public debt between 2020 and 2022. At the end or the second half of 2020, there was about HUF 31 000 billion, which is about 30 percent higher, and we are talking about a government debt of HUF 42 000 billion. Thus, the value of public debt increased by about 30 percent, which in itself was dramatic, but the financing of public debt and the amount of debt service increased by about 50 percent. As a thumb, it has increased from around 1000 billion to 1,500 billion, and next year we are talking about roughly 2,000 billion. Thus, over the period of two years, public debt has increased by 30 percent, and debt service is 50 percent more expensive. This means that all Hungarian workers carry an additional government debt of almost HUF 10 million outside their own debt. And what does that mean in terms of interest rates? It means that all Hungarian employees must pay approximately HUF 500,000 per year of interest. If you were more credible, if Hungarian economic policy, fiscal and monetary policy were to be more credible, then 500 thousand forints could be, say, a third less. If we were only as credible as the Czechs and I brought the Czech example because there is no euro there, and a country with a similar economy as ours, they can finance their public debt at around one-third cheaper. So your uncredited economic policy... in my view, could pay about 150 to 200 thousand forints less interest. I can see Mr Secretary of State nodding a little bit, that you may think I'm miscalculating, but then I'll help you argue that I'll give you another number, see if we can agree: let's say that we were able to finance the half-year interest rate on sovereign debt in 2020 at about 0.5 percent, and now at about 7-7.5 percent, the Czechs are currently able to finance the same figure below 5 percent. The difference is one third to me, but I will respectfully wait for Mr Secretary of State, I hope for his professional response, because so far I have felt this, at least in this circle, and I thank you very much for that. In short, I would just like to say that this is not just a fictitious budget, but it is not for the Hungarian people. I know you're tired of it, or you're tired of it, who's still here, that we keep saying there's a restriction, but there's no other word for it than a terrible austerity. And to bring here a unit that you use for us, I'm going to bring in a Bokros pack unit: about 15 Bokros packets of austerity is what we're talking about here. With regard to the special tax, it is quite clear that now there are only two types of companies in terms of special taxes, as you called them, and there are two types of companies in terms of extra-profit taxes. One is the one that passes it on to Hungarian people, and it does so loudly, and even boasts, it also uses nasty words, the other type of company, which passes it on to Hungarian people, but does so quietly. These are the two types of company, i.e. the Hungarian people will pay for it. By the way, the extra-profit tax is nothing more than an extra inflationary tax, and this will certainly be incorporated into the prices of each item and will further stimulate inflation and increase uncertainty. The last thing I want to say is not only that it serves Hungarian people, but it also has a budget of uncertainty, because we do not even see where they are moving, for example, in relation to the most fundamental tax laws. We see, for example, that in terms of VAT revenue, a significant increase is planned next year, with an incredible increase in GDP revenues. And to bring here the one that really affects 450 thousand Hungarians: the change of the catadas. You have given it to a talking head, an avatar, that Mr Parragh, who is supposed to represent Hungarian entrepreneurs, thinks that we should change the kata and tighten it up. Mr Van Parragh is completely out of character, and I hope that I will be able to meet him in person next week. I understand you've invited me to a very nice view of the Bank Center's office, and it's supposed to be a very nice view from there, and it's our money, of course, a few words, I hope I can change it, that it's a misrepresentation if he's talking about cadavering the cat. And you keep the uncertainty about 450 thousand Hungarians that they can only guess how the rules of the kata change, because they are using a very special legal technique that, if not applied in terms of cells and taxes, has yet been opened, but it is not possible to see how this is going to work. The last thing I would like to say briefly: in addition to not serving the interests of the Hungarian people, it does not serve the interests of the people of Budapest either, as we, together with Gergely Karácsony, have submitted so-called "Budapest package" amendments to the National Assembly, which would apply, for example, to public transport or to public transport, to give back the opportunity to develop these and to tax vehicles. It is also part of this package, and I would like to say this very briefly and in detail, on my proposal a small amendment has also been tabled in relation to the amendment which is also in front of this House as our joint proposal to reduce the VAT on public transport to zero. If Wizz Air and Ryanair, otherwise persecuted by you, are able to sell their tickets with zero-percent VAT, then why would the devil be able to sell their tickets and tickets to public transport with zero-percent VAT? By the way, the overall impact of this is around HUF 40 billion VAT revenue within the margin of error, which is about half of the VAT revenue planned for next year. So this is our proposal to reduce the VAT on public transport passes to zero percent. [[17.10]] Let me give you some numbers of what this would mean for the Hungarian people. Let's say the BKK's monthly lease would be reduced from HUF 9500 to less than 7500, a line ticket from 350 to 276, or, let's say, a standard combined pass in Miskolc from HUF 7700 to just over 6,000 forints. They explain environmental aspects and social aspects to introduce this, so we will also have a concrete proposal that lies before the House. The effect is, once again, within the margin of error. And finally, I would just like to say that I am speaking here not only as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, so as a Member of Parliament, but I am very proud to be the individual elected Member of the 13th Constituencies of Budapest, Budapest XVI. I'm a representative of the district and Zugló-Alsóros. I will be able to comment briefly tomorrow, and there I will present to you about a dozen and a half amendments that my district, the 16th district, has made. I submitted it to improve the lives of the inhabitants of the district and Zugló-Alsóros. I would also like to say that I have contacted Kristóf Szatmáry, who is no longer a representative of the district, but still a district resident, in a letter, and I expect that he will also support them, as it is surely in our common interest that the interests of the district are protected. That is what I wanted to say, in summary, that this is a fictitious budget, which is silly that we are negotiating now and not later. It is not for the Hungarian people, because it contains terrible austerity, it is not for the benefit of the people of Budapest, and it is not for my narrower living environment, the 13th single mandate and XVI. It serves the interests of the district and Zugló-Alsórosos. Thank you so much for letting me say all this. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-06-23-92	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Banai. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to say, factually, that the early budgets have stood the test of time since 2016. Undoubtedly, in Covid's day, the budget adopted had to be touched, but, thank God, in that budget, there were still reserves held by the Parliament despite opposition proposals and which were the primary sources of unexpected expenditure during Covid's time. So I would like to note that the parliamentary decision at the end of the spring session alone does not determine whether the budget is sound or not. Let's look at the practice since 2016 and how well the Hungarian budgets adopted before 2010 in December were in line with what we then showed in the accounts. My second statement is that, yes, the next year's budget will be adopted earlier than most of Europe's countries, but this does not mean that we do not know the facts of the previous year. I have the Eurostat numbers right in front of me, and they're known. [[He's showing me a document.]] Not only does Eurostat know the figures, but last year's budget figures have been published by the Ministry of Finance in January, a lengthy evaluation has also been published. Another thing is that, of course, in the framework of the closing accounts, Parliament should also be informed of a comprehensive statement, a detailed analysis of how the following year was implemented, but again, of course, when drawing up next year's budget, we started from the facts of last year and so far. It has been said many times, but again, I believe that the early budget means stability for businesses, stability for families, and the risks must undoubtedly be addressed, which are not yet known at the time of adoption. This is what the reserves that the budget contains in accordance with the motion before you. Mr President, Mr President, he said that the nature of the fictitious budget is that it is necessary to amend the current budget a hundred times already. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the powers delegated by Parliament to the Government, transfers from reserves are not a modification of the budget. This practice is not the practice of the Orbán government, the Fidesz governments. If you look at the system before 2010, the transfer from the reserves was carried out by the government in its own jurisdiction, so I do not see where the amendments which Mr President mentioned are. As far as inflation is concerned, we and the world are characterised by an environment where the United States has a record of 40 years, a record of decades in many countries, and a war with no doubt. inflation may turn out differently than it is now in the budget, but the claim that the government wants to save money on pensioners because pensioners have to advance some amount is simply not true. Congressman! If that were the case, and the government wanted to save on pensioners, do you think the government would have returned the 13th month pension? Do you think he would have touched the pension premium or not? You don't think that this year, this year, you didn't make an additional pension increase without otherwise being required by law? So simply this statement, forgive me, I think it can be refuted by the facts so far. If you, as a representative in the Socialist Group, look at the benefits that pensioners received before 2010 and after 10 years, you will see a substantial difference. [[Zoltán Vajda: Indexing...]] So, I repeat, this pension system has provided pensioners with extra income, and next year we will expect pensions to maintain their real value. The 13th month pension has been planned, and I trust that it will be possible to pay the premium. Euro exchange rate, the government doesn't have an exchange rate target. The number you see is the average exchange rate for the months before submission. I would also like to point out that, at the beginning of this year, the forint increased to 350 HUF, so there were significant movements. At the end of last year there were three hundred seventy-something forints, and then there was more than 20 forints, and the exchange rate is floating freely. And we can see that not only the Hungarian forint, but also the currencies of the neighbouring countries are typically weakened in the war situation or in the event of a global economic crisis, which is why the currencies of the countries in the region are typically weakened. I hope that in the coming years there will be strong fundamentals for the Hungarian economy and a stable exchange rate will be created. With regard to EU funds, there is no doubt that we have debates with the European Commission, but I ask you, Member, not to make this a one-sided mistake. I would remind everyone that Commission President Von der Leyen and the Hungarian government have already agreed on the date of signing the so-called RRF, so-called recovery programme, when a problem suddenly arose after the adoption of the Child Protection Act. Therefore, I think that everyone should look around their own house, see what they can do to ensure that, by the way, the funds that have already been approved for Hungary are actually available. I think we have a common interest in this. I say this many times, we all have to do it at home and abroad in order to make the funds for Hungary available. I hope that the left-wing representatives, even through European Parliament relations, will lobby for Hungary's EU funds. In debt financing, I waved my head, forgive me, because you mentioned credibility, you mentioned comparison with the Czech Republic. Congressman! You know exactly where Hungary's credibility stood; you know exactly what path we have travelled in the last decade. You know the path that characterized Hungary before 2010 and that characterizes Hungary after 10:00. You know exactly what market yield levels we were able to sell our sovereign debt at. And if you compare us with the Czech Republic, you're certainly right, it's cheaper to finance Czech sovereign debt, but let's also look at the reasons why, let's see what the processes were. I'm looking at the Eurostat data series, and I'm happy to hand it over to Congressman. [[He's showing me a document.]] which shows where they started in 2010, let's say. Over the past decade, the Czech Republic was characterised by debt below 40 per cent on the basis of Eurostat data; with much less debt, with a much lower debt burden, they were indeed financed at a cheaper rate. I have before me the development of the Czech sovereign debt ratio and the development of the Hungarian sovereign debt ratio. However, a debt ratio of over 80 per cent cannot be increased overnight and, based on Eurostat data, the debt ratio in Hungary has decreased steadily between 2011 and 2019. There was definitely an increase under Covid. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that this increase in debt rates was exactly the same as the EU average, but at the same time, Hungarian recovery was faster than the average of the European Union. [[17.20]] If I look at it from this point of view, with the same extra-debt growth, we have achieved a faster recovery with a much higher level of employment than most European countries. Authenticity has a key role to play. I trust that Hungary will retain its credibility and that we will be able to finance the public debt. Funding costs are now, in my opinion, higher due to war inflation and higher central bank interest rates across Europe. To say just one number: in the state nine months ago, the yield of the ten-year eurobond of Italy in the euro zone was about 0,7 per cent, now 3.5 per cent, but the yield level of German government bonds is also known by the congressman how radically they have increased, so this is not a Hungarian specialty, yes, what you say is true, the financing of sovereign debt is higher, but it is not a Hungarian specialty, but it is also so elsewhere in the world. Kata. I'll try to be brief. However, I think it is interesting to think that, in recent years, people who used to be employees have been living in a mass with a favourable form of taxation essentially designed for self-employed people. So how is it that not only the hairdresser, the masseuse, is using this, but people who used to be employees at a company? Don't give it to me, God, it's a special thing when a business, a company, suddenly outsources its employees to catalogs. There are 450 thousand kats in Hungary, and let's look at the statistics on how it was formed, where it came from, what they had previously been existential, what they were doing, what they were self-employed, and they took advantage of the opportunity, or at a company, employees suddenly became ditches. I consider the latter a trick, a tax evasion. I think it is in all our interests that the person who really has the right to do so should take advantage of the favourable tax opportunities and close the loopholes. As far as Budapest is concerned, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that Budapest's capital was an absolute beneficiary of the economic policy that was a much higher economic growth than the EU average. I repeat: between 2014 and 19 the local industrialisation tax revenue in the capital increased by nearly 60 percent. We are working to increase this business tax revenue in the coming years. [[Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2022-06-23-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to János Pócs, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The budget ahead of us should remind us of the Hungarian agriculture. At the time of our accession to the European Union, the EU countries were afraid of Hungary, because they knew precisely that thanks to Hungary's territorial, climatic capacity, the diligence of Hungarian people, it could be the pantry of Europe. The advocacy of the left-wing government at that time is exhausted in the fact that we can open a café in Austria and be glad that we can continue to eat poppy seed, and even the left-wing foreign minister at that time proclaimed that we should dare to be small. At that time, farmers said that Hungarian agriculture had two enemies: left-wing governments and the weather. Today, the left has fallen to the bottom of history, and unprecedented subsidies have been launched for the weather, so we have developed a system of irrigation and national ice mitigation. We have provided several European subsidies from domestic sources, resulting in new livestock farms, modern milking houses and modern agriculture. We know that, although not enough, we have raised domestic food processing and its market access to unprecedented levels. Please allow me to give an example of my own Jászság constituency, which is to confirm that the amount of local Jásztej and Mizo milk produced, processed and sold by the farm group Jászberény and Jászapát has increased by 50 percent in recent years, exceeding 100 million litres of production per year, and their turnover has reached 21 billion. Thank you for that. Thanks to the economic policy of the national government, the extra domestic subsidies, the budgets ahead of us and behind us, the workers of agricultural companies have not had a great deal of gratitude and respect in the most difficult times for domestic food supply, and in the difficult situation caused by the war next door, we can also say that Hungarian food will guarantee not ten but twenty million people's food supply. In agriculture, too, it is particularly true that there are those who have a problem and who have a challenge. Dear fellow Members, As everyone knows, there has been a problem with abundance in the past year and the year before us. The negative effects of the coronal virus epidemic have posed a serious and difficult challenge for all governments around the world. The Russian-Ukrainian war, which broke out in the eastern neighbourhood following a coronal virus epidemic, is very worrying, and this is compounded by an unthinkable energy policy in Brussels, which has led to increased inflationary pressures, which are mainly affecting the negative impact and social impact of raw materials, food and energy prices. Despite the challenges of an unstable international environment, the objective remains unchanged for us, namely the protection of our country and Hungarian families, the strengthening of the reduction of the rent, and ensuring economic growth, so that Hungary is also one of the winners of the new world economy era. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft budget for 2023 provides a predictable and predictable basis for maintaining stability in the country. Despite the crises, an extremely high investment rate will continue to rise, thanks to the ability of the domestic economy to attract capital, a promising corporate environment and a competitive tax system. Bill on the budget for 2023, Chapter XII of the Agricultural Ministry 2019.9 billion [[Sic!]] HUF appropriations are available, while HUF 209.9 billion was available in 2022. In this way, the Agricultural Ministry can manage from a budget of HUF 10 billion in total. National agricultural subsidies have a budget of HUF 74.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, In agriculture, in Hungarian agriculture, there is a need for all hands on the ground, no one should be left out of subsidies or discounts, and therefore the support system provides three levels of support. For the smallest who do not have an adequate share, agriculture provides sufficient support to enable them to start farming. Aid for medium-sized people is designed to be able to apply for technology tools and investments. The third level, the larger economies, will be supported in order to be able to carry out real complex investments, of course, will have much greater self-esteem to enjoy the benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, We are working to strengthen cooperation between consumers and consumers, regardless of the size of the economy. To this end, we ask with respect the support of our fellow Members. Mr President, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-23-96	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to István Szabadi, from the group of our country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, Before I turn to the central budget of 2023, to the presentation of our opinion on the draft budget law, let me highlight something interesting, which is one of the specialities, interestingness of the current budget, to say that it is also a problem, and this has been the case in recent years for the budgets at hand. This is that there is a phenomenon that is not visible in the budget in recent years, but that has a major impact on the implementation of the budget. [[17 .30]] But what could it be? We have heard several times in the National Assembly that in certain cases or periods there is no money, no money, no money, but if there is something you really need, or if there is something wrong with finding a source, then at some point you can find that source. It's like it's some kind of invisible safe that you can reach into and take out if it's really bad, a little money. But I don't want to know what it is anymore. This is the issue of appropriations managed by the chapter and their budget remnants. The appropriations managed by the chapter shall serve the specific professional sector tasks of the chapters and shall be governed by the rules for their purpose, management and use in the Regulation of the Ministries. More specifically, the specific nature of the appropriations managed by the chapter is that they have a budgetary residual commitment, which means that the bodies managing the chapter may carry on the unpaid part of the committed amount for the following years. It shall be carried out in such a way that, following the adoption of the annual budget report, they may, in the year following the reference year, make an adjustment in their respective powers, with the approval of the Government, starting from the second year. The budget balances for the previous year are therefore not included in the budgets, so the residuals for 2021 cannot be seen in the 2022 budget but are still there. Two of the government's publicly available savings measures were covered by the appropriations managed by the government at the end of 2021. On the one hand, the government is 1888/2021. By its Decision No 21, it provided for a chapter expenditure ceiling above which no expenditure could be made on appropriations managed by the chapter and, on the other hand, a radical change in the rules of the budget balance at that time. In the 2021 budget report, there was only a narrow possibility of detecting a residual budget with a commitment, and the remaining part of the balance had to be paid by the bodies managing the chapter into the savings fund. We believe that the government has taken these measures because it is well aware that appropriations managed by the chapter have a lot to save. Based on data published on the implementation of the budget on the website of the Hungarian State Treasury on 31 December 2021, we calculate that savings of at least HUF 700 billion have been made, which is not automatically used, but is decided by the Minister of Finance on a reasoned request. According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, the savings measures at the end of the year and the revision of the Ministry of Finance make sense if, for example, at least some of the HUF 700 billion in this case is spent on a more important task than the original goal, such as raising the wages of teachers, so there is no need to wait for EU funds. In order to mitigate the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic, the recovery and resilience instrument, i.e. the RRF, a third of which the government is planning to devote to health care, almost a third to the development of sustainable green transport, the remaining amount would be allocated to public education, higher education, energy and greening. RRF is charged with spending HUF 590 billion in the draft budget law for 2023, which the government plans to finance as an advance, as the European Union has not yet approved the source of the operational programme due to the rule of law procedure, so it is not yet coming, is it? From this, doctors will spend 300 billion forints on the third phase of their wage development in 2021, but not a penny for teachers' wage increases. In our understanding, this means that if EU money comes in at some point, they will be used first to settle advances, and then teachers will probably be last in line. A monthly gross HUF 348 870 was planned for a teacher's salary in the 2022 central budget, which increased to HUF 387 313 due to an increase in the 10-percent sectoral bonus on the basis of the 2023 bill, with the government expecting a decrease in the number of 353 teachers next year. However, this is still less than HUF 50,000 from the average national income in 2021 and HUF 125 thousand from the average earnings in March 2022. According to our calculations, half of the HUF 300 billion intended for the development of medical wages should be devoted to the development of teacher wages in the draft budget law of 2023 in order to adapt teachers' salaries to the average national income. For as long as the third phase of wage development started in 21 in the case of doctors is to be achieved next year, teachers are to be silenced by a 10-percent increase. Of course, the Hungarian Movement agrees with the increase in doctors' salaries and its full implementation, but in 21 the government communication was not about the fact that there would be no funding without EU funds. Where necessary, the Ministry of Finance's appropriations under the heading management of provisions, which will cover wage compensation for employees in budgetary bodies, or the savings fund, shall be included in wage developments. We therefore demand that the government, when implementing the 2022 budget, provide adequate resources for teacher wage increases from the savings fund and from the draft budget law of 2023. The budget bill of 2023 accounts for HUF 5582 billion more revenue than the previous year, based on the increase in GDP by 4.7 percent in 2022 despite the uncertain geopolitical situation, the increase in gross wages reaches 16.7 percent, and employment increases by 0.7 percent. These are his designs. Based on the favourable growth forecast of the macroeconomic path, the government planned a HUF 1613 billion increase in revenues from the general sales tax next year. Obviously, if we keep inflation high, this can happen, because the VAT revenue will be much higher. The draft law identifies inflation as one of the causes of the increase in VAT revenue, as I mentioned, as the government expects an annual inflation rate of 8.9 per cent when planning the budget. That was when the budget was planned. This confirms our view that the government has an interest in keeping inflation high beyond the war effect next year. Márton Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, mentions annual inflation expectations of over 10 percent. In addition, we do not agree that while airlines are planning to collect HUF 30 billion of extra-profit tax next year, only HUF 5 billion of gambling tax increases are expected for casinos, since neither casinos nor the biggest winners of public procurement procedures are subject to the extra-profit tax. In order to implement the government's budget for 2022, the Minister of Finance should draw up a proposal by 1 July, with the involvement of the ministers concerned, and the impact of the cost reductions for the year 23 should already be included in the draft budget law submitted to Parliament. I see I'm running out of time, so I'm going on with something very important, and there's more to talk about. Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who was now held on 17 June, denied and called false news in the press that there would be a major reduction in bureaucracy in government offices and the public sector. Looks like the government doesn't have to go next door for fake news. [[17.40]] The budget shows that, according to the explanation for the heading of direct revenue and expenditure of the budget, the government plans to reduce its staff in order to achieve the budget deficit target for the year 23, which is expected to save HUF 30 billion, which is why it is interesting to hear from the Government on 17 June, as well as the bill 10. Pursuant to Paragraph 9 of the Act, the government is authorised to determine how to enforce the savings resulting from the downsizing of staff. According to the explanation provided in the detailed explanation, the savings resulting from the reduction of staff can be achieved in various ways depending on the type of organisation, and, as a shock, the bill gives the government the power to develop them. These provisions, in our understanding, mean that the reduction of the number of staff will not affect the budgetary bodies in the future in the same way, the extent of which will be determined by the government at the same time. Based on the information provided by the Hungarian Public Officials, Public Servants and Civil Service Workers' Union, for example, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Government Office is expected to reduce the number of employees by more than 10 per cent, while not reaching the Government Office of Budapest Capital. According to this, the government is planning to reduce the number of employees in the countryside, where, in addition to tax offices, government agencies are the largest employers among graduates. The Government's intention to reduce staff is also supported by the opinion of the Fiscal Council that a 3.3 percent reduction is expected in the public sector. Since this is a budget revenue of HUF 30 billion, the Hungarian Movement expects an answer to the fact that Gergely Gulyás was wrong or that the bill contains an untruth. The government plans to reduce the number of staff in the central budget bodies, if so, this year or next year, and on what basis will the number of staff be set for each body? Finally, although I only have a few seconds, this draft budget actually allows inflation to be kept high or increased, so the question is that next year the bread will be 3 again, not in HUF, but in euro. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-23-98	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Kanász-Nagy, on behalf of the Group of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Fellow Members! Allow me to briefly evaluate the welfare areas of the budget and its green and sustainable areas. The latter will be relatively difficult, because it is not really included in the budget, where I have to report the deficits. With regard to the welfare area, if I wanted to technically assess the budget, I had a relatively difficult time, because it is very difficult to excavate it, to take out from the budget exactly what they consider as welfare expenditure, exactly where these welfare expenditures are. That is why in recent years, over the past decade, the budget has been struggling with this problem, what is social expenditure, what is welfare expenditure, social policy expenditure. This is difficult to find, and the justifications do not necessarily include what these are. In the past, even when the Ministry of Human Resources existed, the situation was not simple. Now that there's no such ministry, maybe it's even harder. However, it can be seen from the main figures that the withdrawals affected the welfare area in previous years, in practice since 2010, these will not be restored or corrected this year. What is very, very important has been said several times in this debate is that we are in a record period of inflation. This record inflation is also not corrected for social norms, social workers' wages, teachers' wages, social benefits and cash benefits. Our position is that, by the way, the welfare area is a very important area of the public sector. This is of particular importance in terms of what we, by the way, consider to be the main objective of politics. This is an increase in the well-being and quality of life of people, families, communities. That is why we want to spend a lot and a lot on the public sector, because it contributes to the well-being of individuals, families, communities, people living in settlements, which is much more and much wider than well-being, which means a material, material definition. I would like to turn to the public sector, the public sector's wage situation, which is very, very serious. The fundamental problem here is the need for an ever-increasing, competitive public sector that follows inflation, and public service workers should provide such competitive wages. This did not happen in previous years, nor will it happen next year. These substantial wage increases are not included in next year's budget. What we're talking about here is that what happens to the public sector is an ongoing outsourcing. More and more groups of workers are being taken out, let's say, from the civil servant pay table, and are subject to the Labour Code, which is a reduced protection compared to a previous legal situation. But those who remain in the public servant pay table are not doing much better financially, and even the various payment categories have been collapsing a long time ago, and this confusion is expected next year as well. It is obviously due to the rise in the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, which leads to an ongoing unfair situation, because the civil servant pay table is simply unable to differentiate based on the years spent in the work, on the basis of qualifications or on other extra performances. This fragmentation could obviously be corrected by a whole new public servant pay table, where the starting step of the public servant pay table would obviously have to start somewhere above the guaranteed minimum wage. Now a significant part of the pay table is covered by the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. On the basis of this, we would say that the state is the worst employer in Hungary, although it could be best to ensure respect and substantial salaries for public sector employees. If we go through this briefly, we can talk about serious shortcomings in each group and non-compliance with previous promises. At the very beginning, in the first cycle, in 2010, the teachers promised that the introduction of a career model would mean that teachers' wages would continue to increase automatically, as teachers' wages would be linked to a continuous increase in the minimum wage. On the other hand, the project fund for teachers' wages has been frozen, and has been frozen since 2014. That's 101,500 forints alone. That was the minimum wage at the time. If this could be corrected with the present minimum wage, the teachers' wages would increase very much, but this would be in line with the original promise, which they will not keep again. There may have been wage increases in the past period, and the bonus that was introduced in 2020 should be considered, but the introduction of this supplement only meant that it might be possible to correct the impact of inflation. That doesn't apply anymore. In practice, inflation consumes or loses a month's wage from public employees, including teachers. I would like to focus on social workers, since I come from the social area in principle, that is where I started my career in the labour market. This is the group whose salary, wages, is well below even for teachers' wages, even though they are not too high. What was a great, great pain during the Covid period, the health workers were entitled to receive a reward of HUF 500 000, a one-time wage supplement of HUF 500 000, and we demanded that social workers also provide this pay supplement, in the Covid period they did the same in the field, in the elderly homes, taking into account the various domestic assistance services, in the family supporters, in child welfare services, and the rest, they did not receive this supplement, and the next year's budget does not include this reward of HUF 500 000. [[17.50]] Obviously, we also need a substantial increase in wages, a career model and the rest. In the case of healthcare workers, which is the main problem, I am referring to the pay gap between professional areas, medical wages and the wages of nurses, the wages of professional staff. It is very right that medical wages should have been raised, to the same extent, at the same rate and at the same rate, in proportion to the salaries of nurses and professional staff, by the way, both in hospitals and in specialist clinics. We can talk about administrative officials or municipal officials. It is also the case that wages have not increased substantially for a long time. In the case of municipal officials, the government constantly refers to the fact that the municipalities, the municipalities, could make wage increases, and why they would not increase the civil servants' wages. Well, it's simply because they leave the municipalities in the position they are in, obviously the severe withdrawal of the past period puts the municipalities in a difficult position. If I am referring to cash benefits, it has been said here in the context of family support during the debate, which I was able to follow on television and on the Internet, that it is absolutely true that Hungary is also spending a major part of the European Union, now in terms of GDP, compared to its own GDP, that this is true for family support. The problem here is how this aid is distributed, how these subsidies are provided. Well, quite simply because those with lower incomes and wealth can no longer really obtain these subsidies, I put it mildly, here the various tax incentives and housing subsidies cannot be used by tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of families. However, there are subsidies that would be available to them: basically, they are subsidies linked to the minimum retirement pension and family allowances, the poverty reduction and mitigation effect of which is of particular importance. These are exactly the subsidies that the Orbán government has not raised by virtually one forint since 2008. This is a deficiency and a problem, and this situation will continue next year. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I would also like to address in a sentence the residential institutions, in particular the elderly homes, but also care homes, temporary accommodation facilities. The main problem here is the lack of space: tens of thousands of waiting lists, tens of thousands of families, tens of thousands of elderly people waiting for accommodation. We should spend money on this, raise the norm, expand the space, that's not going to happen either. Let me talk about the green leg of the budget. Obviously, we need a green light here. The first and most important thing would be to get rid of hydrocarbon dependence. This is a security policy issue, it is a price issue and it is a question of combating climate change. Unfortunately, this isn't happening. For some reason, they're clinging to hydrocarbons. It doesn't matter to me that hydrocarbons, oil, natural gas or coal, if any, come from the east, from the Russians, whether from the north, from the Norwegians, from the west, from the United States of America or from the south, from the Arabs, none of them is a good solution, because it is expensive because it is polluting because it increases climate change. The government's objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. The problem is that we would return to the 2013 level by 2030, so we will go ahead in time by practically entering the past. This is not a solution, nor is it a real solution to say that I would make the Hungarian economy carbon neutral only by 2050, and that would be achieved by nuclear energy and solar energy. I do not want to mention now what serious security and price problems there are with nuclear energy, Paks II's investment is bleeding from a thousand wounds. I think we have to wait another 28 years until 2050, it is a huge time, we do not want to wait decades for the air to be clear, for the Hungarian economy to be carbon neutral. We have three important proposals, which would help a great deal, and we have talked about them here earlier in this parliamentary term, and we have put forward proposals on these. The first of the three proposals is the renovation of buildings. Forints 300 billion would be used in the form of a budget amendment proposal, the insulation and renovation of 100,000 households, apartments and houses could be solved out of 300 billion forints. The greenest energy is indeed the energy we do not consume. This would serve the purpose of not heating the Hungarian streets with Russian gas, creating jobs and having an environmental aspect. Our second proposal is to develop renewable energy sources. It is completely nonsense here that wind power, wind power plants, has been practically banned; the ban should be lifted and the creation of wind power plants should be supported by the state. Our third very important proposal is the introduction of a climate lease for a German sample. This would mean that the various services of MÁV, Volán and BKV could be used from a few thousand forints a month. Community transport needs to be developed, made available to all, and this would also mean an immediate cost reduction for hundreds of thousands of families. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. This is the end of the third round, and now we have two-minute speeches. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if someone would like to apply for a two-minute speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any sign-ups, so we'll move on to the next round, the fourth round. I give the floor first to Mr László Varju of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-101	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I take the opportunity that it is my turn now, and so I would like to say my reflections for two minutes in the context of a normal comment, which I would like to attach to Mr State Secretary's earlier speech in the first step. It began with the early budget standing the test of time. We have had a long debate with Mr Secretary of State, and I do not believe that he has passed his test at all. This year, in particular, bears the uncertainty that does not in any way support the fact that Mr Secretary of State's position is correct. Especially if the possibility of this year sinking into recession has been mentioned here from the mouth of the Minister, and if our economic prospects are like this on this pulpitus, it can bring about changes in the economy and its impact on the budget, which are definitely a particularly different situation. It would therefore have been more justified to continue in this respect in the autumn, after the 2021 public accounts, with the establishment of the budget in 2023. This is only part of the second part because you already see 2021, as you say, Secretary of State. Yes, we can see these numbers, but there is no parliamentary decision. You assume, and this is an important element of our debate, that Parliament will certainly vote for this. This is the abuse of power that you are practically ignoring the control function of Parliament, and this is indeed one of the very important problems, because it does not matter to you, it is not important to you that you can be criticized, whether from a opposition side or even from a pro-government side, that the spending you have made before is correct, especially if I have to read in this study in the report of the Hungarian National Bank, which they published, that they contributed HUF 11 000 billion to the crisis management. We are probably talking about the Covid crisis, which basically means that as an additional source, this amount of money was printed so that Hungary could handle the crisis. [[18.00]] Okay, but don't say that inflation, which is above 15 percent rather than below, is real inflation, which can be perceived either in the Újpest market or elsewhere, or in this larger, wider market, is not war inflation, which you otherwise believe to have contributed significantly to as a way of treatment, according to my calculations. After all, as my fellow Member has mentioned here, inflation has started to rise earlier, and we can even go back to 2019, because, by the way, before Covid, inflation has started to rise, and there it has already been significantly above 4 percent. The consequence of this is that there is no basis that would have helped us not to be in such a dramatic situation right now, when such a situation arises with such high inflation and we have to face a very weak forint exchange rate. And I wouldn't be so proud of it, which is about the fact that, in this respect, an increase compared to a very low scale was indeed, I could say, compulsory practice. No doubt so, I did not say that the amendment of the budget was illegal, I did not say that it was illegal and it was not the government's jurisdiction to redeploy and use the remains. But what I am saying is that by adopting such legislation, without Parliament, all this can be done regardless of the scale, I disagree. Of course, that doesn't make it legal in your terms. Pensioners do not advance and undertake to preserve real value. All I'd like to say to you is that I do. The subject of the debate is that you are actually deceiving people, the preservation of real values means that they will be poorer year after year, because while wage growth was much higher and, for other reasons, because of the outflow of money, inflation is much higher than, in reality, pensioners' products, in particular, what you acknowledge in inflation. And here you can refer to what inflation is now, and then the premium will come. What the Bajnai government has adopted as a rule is what they're trying to do. Yet, they do not catch up with what is caused by the rise in inflation. In this respect, I cannot accept war inflation, your argument. It's more of a communication trick than a reality. Today's inflation is largely your farming, which means you're responsible. As far as Kata is concerned, I would just like to say that there is a great deal of indignation. The Democratic Coalition has also initiated a petition in this regard, which has already been signed by more than 10,000 people. I agree with the outraged people, because you're the ones who dragged them into this opportunity. A few years ago, you guys were specifically promoting it here, specifically creating conditions to get these people to do it. Then they referred to a similar initiative of the previous government, which was rewritten so that it would be easier and easier to tax. A lot of people agreed with that, and now they're saying it's unfair what they're doing. I don't think it's unfair. They took advantage of the opportunity, and you offered it yourself. This was about the same as it was decades ago, when everyone bought the oil stove and settled in there, and then they tried to persuade them to use other heating, only to pay for it. Well, don't make them pay now, and don't get mad at them. That's how this story works. In view of the time, I would like to tell you, in principle, that within my constituency, the effects that I have just spoken about as a market in Újpest, that it will appear there, and that is why I would like the budget to pay some attention to those problems, while distracting the resources of the municipalities, the resources of the districts, while not helping in any way the investments that are needed to be made there. I would therefore like to draw attention to the need to build a solid road cover, such as the Székeszűlő with a solid road cover, and to the need to renovate a complex sidewalk program in this area. It's all part of what you're actually taking with the withdrawals, taking the blame. They pulled this problem on themselves. Here's how it's done. And I'm sorry, they don't just reward the chosen ones, or prefer them when they decide on the sources. I would consider it important to create an opportunity such as opening up the Danube bank to the general public. A part of the city by the water could have this opportunity. There have been discussions about this before, but you are ignoring all of this. Finally, I would like to mention one of the most important parts on this subject, including my fellow Member, Mr Kanász-Nagy. He may not have mentioned it, but the rental program is dealing with a problem that is not a part of the city, but a problem of a country, that you are pushing people into tens of millions of HUF borrowing to serve your construction oligarchs to build expensive apartments. Meanwhile, hundreds of municipalities are lining up to get housing. It is your duty and responsibility to start a rental program, while you have been resisting this for a decade now, and you are not taking any steps to make this happen. Consider that there are not only millions of earning workers in this country. In order to start a single life, there is a need for accommodations at the beginning and at the later stages. Those who can only farm a lower amount as a family, people who are otherwise hardworking people, must have the opportunity to obtain a flat for either subsidised or self-costed or market rent. We kindly ask you to take this into account. The necessary amendments will be tabled. Please accept this. It's not the first time you've heard that, it's not the first time you've heard that. Thank you very much for your attention, please help us with these problems. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Péter Balassa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to comment on the budget and its amendment on three issues. I may make the smallest budget amendment, but it will be 12 million forints on the first subject, but it will give us the opportunity to work together in a society that was achieved in Szombathely in 2014. What's this about? In 2014, Csaba Sárközi, with our education delegation, was able to implement an initiative in Szombathely, over the parties, which means that he was supported by all parties, and was inaugurated on 24 September 2014 on the day of St. Gellért. But what am I talking about? Dear Parliament, The purpose of my proposal, the planting of the teachers' tree, is to honor the nation-building work of teachers, teachers, teachers and professors, who have received only word in material and moral appreciation of knowledge and national traditions. Planting should take place in a community space where the materialized form of wood is itself, constantly calling for the respect of knowledge, local and national traditions. The wooden motif, an important sacral component of Hungarian material and intellectual ethnography. [[18.10]] It is a symbol of the relationship between worlds, of stability, of growth, and it connects the earthly and heavenly worlds. The sky-high tree is the oldest part of Hungarian folk traditions. By selecting a worthy, noble tree that meets local, climatic and other natural conditions, let us give rank and honor to the keepers and handlers of knowledge. The teacher should be the first known teacher in the room, thus avoiding the selection of values and reminding the passersby of our historical past. The teacher is not a teacher, much deeper and broader. Jesus himself was a teacher, but old Mártona Nyírő, Old Suhay of László Zalai Szalay. The name of the first known teacher can be found in the county archives, the church Historia Domus, local historical collections, and even folk memory could preserve a renowned former teacher. Choose the location of the planting carefully. If we have data, it is recommended that the former or old school is not used today either in its courtyard or in front of the church or pastor's office, since the old schools were ecclesiastical. Of course, any significant square or park of the room can be a suitable location. As an example to follow, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament of the tree of the first teachers in our country: in Szombathely, the patron saint of teaching, on the day of Saint Gellért, was the first 30-year-old Lebanese cedar planted in the sacral square of the city, in the place of his first elementary school and secondary school, before Széchenyi's lyceuma. He is on the side of the statue of the first bishop of the city, opposite the Cathedral. The first Hungarian school in Pannonhalmán/1490 The first written data on the existence of a school in Szombathely/1570 György Pápay is the first known teacher in Szombathely/2014 Planting the cedar tree in Lebanon Dear Parliament, I suggest that the tree movement of teachers be born, so that we remember for the first time in the capital and in the districts of the capital, in the cities with county rights, the nation's day laborers, the teachers of all time. I ask the Honourable Parliament to vote for the costs of making a memorial tree. Here's my topic: everyone deserves a chance to survive. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Mr President, About a month ago, I spoke on a subject where a local resident approached me about the establishment of a particular helicopter base. I told you then that this affects about 700-800 thousand people in Western Hungary. If you look at the location of the air rescue bases in Hungary today, the country is divided into seven areas, which means that there are three areas in Western Transdanubia; Szombathely, Győr, Mosonmagyaróvár and Sopron are closest to Sármellék and Balatonfüred. If someone looks at EU legislation and the possibilities of what it requires, they say the 15-minute check-out period. Speaking of specialists, and in the process of searching for the head of Balatonfüred and Sármellék's air rescue base, I would like to thank you for your response, and I will be visiting the locations of both rescue sites shortly. I also said in my earlier speech that every minute means life. If a person has been in a car accident, the rescue helicopter arriving every minute increases the possibility of surviving the accident by 10 percent. I think, and everyone may agree, that this cannot be a question of money. In amending the budget, I proposed my amendment in a line of 2 billion HUF, which would be at the expense of central communication. Today, in Hungary, two billion forints cannot be a problem, because I think that Western Transdanubia deserves that in the blind spot in which we live, I can say here Győr, Sopron, Szombathely, Mosonmagyaróvár and the surrounding settlements, where in 2014 the settlement plan was modified in Sárvár, and in Mihályi the possibility of developing an air rescue base was raised, we do not know and do not understand, and I do not know why these did not happen, but I respectfully ask the Parliament, the ministers and any decision-makers in such a serious case, where a blind spot appears... and once again, I am not criticizing the system or helping the system. I will say it every time I speak, and at a previous press conference I indicated that I would sacrifice my four-year parliamentary work for this reason, and I consider it a matter of my heart that earlier, where decisions have already been made, plans were made for an air rescue base to be prepared and implemented, why this has not happened. So I respectfully ask the Honourable Parliament, each decision-maker, to support this initiative, taking into account the interests of the public, in the establishment of an air rescue base. The third topic is once again a very, very important topic, which Jobbik has been on the agenda for almost half a decade, and that is the possibility of men retiring after 40 years of employment. Speaking of the euro exchange rate and the possibility of pensions: I live next to Szombathely, we go to Austria quite a lot, and I have a lot of friends who either commute or live in Austria or actually come home or try to monitor the euro/forint exchange rate on a daily basis, but it's impossible. If you look at him, he's a Hungarian male, but the woman who is going to retire now can expect a pension of about EUR 300-400. I would like to tell you that this is EUR 962, which is the smallest amount in Austria. You always refer to Austria, and Austria is a laboratory in Hungary, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2021, when the Hungarian budget was set up, the euro was 350 forints, to which the 2022 budget reached 400 forints. I am afraid that, today, when I speak, you are planning the budget with a certain main number that I have seen, the budget's total, today we are counting over 400 or 400 euros, and I fear that this number will be much, much worse next year. I'm not right, but seeing that the euro/forint exchange rate weakened by HUF 50 in six months, I'm afraid there will still be problems. But I'll get back to you on the subject and on our 40-year-old programme for men. Today in Hungary the probability that a man will live to the age of 65 is only 64 percent. It's less than 50 percent for undergrads. So every second man dies before he's 65. In Sweden, this rate is 82 percent, so more than 8 out of 10 men are worth 65 years. One of the reasons for this is the state of persistent stress caused by the consumer society in Hungary. For example, insecurity at work. The situation is aggravated not only individually but also socially by the removal of employees from employment at 50-55 years of age in some workplaces. These men are much more difficult to reposition. This is why there is a very high proportion of unemployed or unemployed people at this age. This is absurd because it deeply violates society's sense of justice. The economic crisis caused by the pandemic has now also contributed to this. As a result of the changed economic situation, most people in this age group lost their jobs. This uncertain situation, and the lack of prospects, leads to the state of persistent stress and premature death mentioned above. Unfortunately, these data are real and absolutely undesirable for our nation. It's not good, it's not fair, and it's not fair that a man who's worked his life with honor, in the years before his retirement, is living his life for a possible layoff, a layoff, possibly humiliated and aided. Jobbik's consistent professional position for decades is to open up the possibility of 40 years of retirement for men as well. In our view, this could even contribute to the whitening of the black economy, since it is in the fundamental interest of workers to make the employment relationship 40 years declared. In addition, the market could fill the jobs of pensioners with younger workers, thus reducing youth unemployment rates and emigration tendencies. I call on the honourable Parliament, the decision-makers, to support Jobbik's amendment and to support Jobbik's initiative. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-23-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dezső, Member of the MSZP Group, the notary of the Parliament, is next. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I would like to address two issues: one is the issue of housing, the other is that if I have time, I would like to share my thoughts about extra-profit with you. Concerning housing: this is a very serious and living problem in Hungary today, and inadequate treatment of this can have quite serious consequences. We can already detect various signs of this. One of these is the lack of social mobility, which is a serious problem in Hungary today. The other is the development of the birth count. It's obvious everything's not okay here either. And the third is the number of people without lids, we can meet them every day, I think, in an increasing number. It also has a serious impact on the price of apartments, I think it doesn't have to be long-winded, we can all sense that the price of used apartments is virtually completely gone, it can be purchased at a horror level today. [[18.20]] The same is true of rents: rent prices in the capital and county seats became priceless. It is also very noticeable, and here one of my better fellow Members pointed out that there are very many people who are moving from the countryside to the capital and, say, want to work with the police or to work in health care. They have to decide whether to pay rent or try to make a living, because with their salary, they can't do it together. I see that the government senses this problem, and I also see that it would. But I can also see that, unfortunately, you can only see one direction in which to acquire property. Practically all of their measures apply to those who want to acquire property, giving them discounts. But I think we should think about it. There are not only people and young people in Hungary today who have the opportunity to borrow millions, and not everyone is able to manage the construction of a house. So I think that some other solution should also be offered to people who love to live in Hungary. This solution, in my opinion, could be the construction of a flat. I think we should build a thousand apartments like this. There is a need for serious public involvement in this respect, and I think that this can lead us to finding a solution to the problems I have just identified. In this, the state's involvement, as I mentioned earlier, cannot be bypassed. I have tabled an amendment in this regard. I would be pleased if this would have any impact on you and you would address this issue. In addition to or with the construction of public apartments, there is another idea, which is not present in the area of today's Hungarian housing, and this is the green idea. I sense that there are no apartments today that meet these requirements. However, this could be achieved by building a public tenant. It would be possible to build so-called passive houses, which, in addition to being an environmentally friendly structure, could also have other significance. For example, for residents, this ensures that the rent would be very cheap. Not because the state supports it, but because it consumes little. Such buildings and apartments today are typically not built in Hungary. At the same time, if this could be done at the state level, this could be given special attention, and this could lead to a new form of construction in this respect. So it would be cheap to maintain it. I think that this could be better achieved than with the various CSOK-like grants, because it could be reached to a different, poorer, simpler layer, and there are thousands of people who would require this kind of help. Nor can it be rejected that there would be revenue from this at a later stage, following their construction, which would be reversible for the construction of additional dwellings. The other issue I would like to address is related to the extra-profit tax. It's been mentioned here several times today. I took the trouble, and I began to gather him out, eager that, in the end, if this is the case, how can this be done professionally? I looked at the average profit of businesses in Hungary today. That's 8.5 percent. There are 581 sectors where this can be investigated and can be concluded on this basis. Of the 581 divisions, 189 were able to achieve above the 8.5 per cent average I mentioned earlier. The person who knew twice the profit, however, represents a 17-percent profit, a total of 28 sectors in the country. I think that such a profit, which is twice the average, is not yet considered to be an extra profit. At the same time, if it's more than three times that, it could be calculated in my opinion. I've examined the number of sectors that know this triple profit, and it's on your list. None. It was decided by some other selection criteria, from which the Secretary of State mentioned something like this, namely where the profits were not planned and still increased. It's just that I think that this is true for a given year, but it's not just for a year. If they have this for the next year, these companies will have a huge problem. At the same time, I also looked at the top. I think they should have been dealt with, with those who know five times the average Hungarian professional. I was surprised because this 46.4 percent sector is road and rail construction. Well, you might want to give me a few thoughts, Mr. Secretary, on how none of these people managed to get in. But I'll tell you another one where it's more than three times, and that's gravel, sand and clay mining. Why did this fail to be included in these taxes? Otherwise, the common man would reply immediately, perhaps because the oligarch, which plays the most role in one, is connected to the Ripper and his interests, and the other to the Prime Minister's father. It is clear from this that these raise some serious questions in people, and it is simply incomprehensible why people who are not technically justified have been chosen. After that, it should not be surprising that those who are involved in this in some way have a very special term for the newly appointed Minister. Thank you very much. [[The gullible Dezső again takes over his notary seat.]]
u2022-06-23-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the round is over, now is the opportunity for two minutes of speeches. I ask my fellow Members if someone would like two minutes. I would like to ask Congresswoman Éva Scarők if she wants two minutes. [[Eve Scars says no.]] Okay, he just put his card back. [[Eve Scars nods.]] Okay, be in there, it's fine, it just flashed up this minute, and I didn't know you were just pushing your button. Thank you very much. Since no one came forward, the final round, the fifth round of the written ones. First from the DK Group, Mr Gy. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Németh. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-23-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let us note at the beginning, however, that we are very few in such a late hour in the debate on the budget, but I think it is very important that the sentences that one would like to say here in relation to the budget 23, which, in my opinion, is clear that the budget for the cuts, and here we will be meeting with an Orbán package, who will not vote for it, but unfortunately also those who will vote for it, and especially those who will bear the odes of all this. The budget proves what the Democratic Coalition knew before the elections in April, and it is well predicted: if Viktor Orbán remains Prime Minister, brutal restrictions will come that have never been seen. Even though Fidesz denied it at the time, unfortunately we were right, you do not protect the most vulnerable, so you let the pensioners down, so you don't deal with the problems of education and health care. This is, indeed, a budget for austerity. Now let's look specifically at the social sector. The budget of 2023, the social attitude of the government, is like the Orbán government: arrogant, insensitive and irresponsible. Your budget doesn't even seem to care about the problem of the least social mobility in Hungary, and that this means that it takes a poor family over 200 years to emerge from poverty and become middle class. Eurostat provides official data on poverty and the extent of poverty in each Member State once a year, including on Hungarian. [[18.30]] These statistics also show, in comparison, how much the number of people living in poverty, the number of people living below the poverty line and the extent of poverty have increased among groups such as pensioners and the Roma. It is clear from the data that poverty is growing in Hungary. In European comparison, there is also a mournful picture: at present, we are in the last place even if Romania is left behind. Finland, the Czech Republic and Malta occupy the best seats. You know, it's quite depressing to think that while the state propaganda machine's jewel, MTVA Zrt., is planning to spend 110 billion forints next year, they have no plan on how to eliminate child hunger in Hungary. Based on data from UNICEF and Eurostat, some 50 000 of the Hungarian children are permanently starving and 200,000 are periodically starving, and even more are malnourished, and hundreds of thousands of others will have no more than bread, pasta and potatoes on their tables. They are not helped by the family tax relief, Mr. Secretary of State, the CSOK, which we know is credit, not support. It would help them to increase their family allowance. Anyone who has followed your 12-year-old amok run at close range is not entirely surprising to him, but in any case it is outrageous and unacceptable that the family allowance has not changed since 2008. In real terms, this is about 30 percent less than it was then. But it may also be more understandable to Mr Secretary of State if I say that the amount of family allowance does not cover the joint pizza of a family of three. Fidesz's family policy can also be retraceable here: the politicalally preferred middle class continues to be supported by relatively high income, tax discount, CSOK and other dots. The small-time earners, their jobs have still been lost, because, as I have already said, the family allowance has been paid since 2008, 14 years, Mr. Secretary, this is your 13th budget, so the family allowance has remained unchanged for 14 years. And if those in need were hoping that the municipalities would support and help them, well, no, don't hope. These too, i.e. the municipalities will not have the resources to give or to give funeral benefits, emergency aid, heating or other subsidies to the inhabitants of the settlements. You are reducing the support of the municipalities. We have already talked about it here today, while Mr Secretary of State claims that support from local governments is increasing, this support is increasing by taking this away from another branch. Support for municipalities will increase by 95 billion, and you will take 88 billion off the hook, and while you want to spend this amount on the support of less-favoured local authorities, the distribution is not transparent, and it will typically improve the budget of local governments that are loyal to the government. In some cases, the loss of the solidarity tax could lead to a billion-dollar hole in the budget of the locality concerned. For example, they want to withdraw HUF 56 billion from Budapest in 2023. Although Mr Secretary of State said in a previous reply that, on the other hand, the business tax, since small and medium-sized enterprises are deprived of a certain 1%, should pay again, will compensate for these withdrawals. Well, we looked at the formula. On the basis of the formula, Mr State Secretary, exactly that much is withdrawn from Budapest, or, I'm sorry, 1 billion more, and a formula has been added to this account, according to which the 18.7 billion-billion-dollar increase is now being taken away from the City Council by 20 billion. On the total solidarity tax of 56 billion from Budapest, I would like to say this precisely to you, as well as to the viewers who may follow the debate in the House this evening, that this HUF 56 billion is exactly as much as the Prime Minister's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, hope that this name should be said here in this House as a non-refundable hotel development aid from the Kisfaludy programme. I think it's really, really wrong. The institutions and social institutions maintained by the municipalities will therefore be in a difficult situation. The state normative does not cover the rising costs of inflation, and these services must be provided to the residents of the settlements at a high level and must be operated at a high level. Children in kindergarten, those in nursing homes, cannot expect or wait to provide them with better conditions in a few years' time. It is incomprehensible to me, for example, that, like the education sector, you, in the social sector, discriminate between users on the basis of the maintenance. Church supporters in the social field receive at least twice as much normative support as local governments. Dear fellow Members, I don't know if it's going to be dignified to call someone here sooner or later, but it's obviously going to come out when you adopt these new laws, but I think it's really, really wrong. You can't discriminate against the elderly, you can't discriminate against the elderly, you can't do this by a decent state. Although I sometimes doubt that in your case, you may and should be able to talk about a fair state, a fair government. Of course, there will always be barriers in all societies, but expectations and not only social expectations, but also one of the European Union's fixed aims is to deal with these situations, not to leave those who are socially deprived and those who fall apart where they could go without their own faults. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already said, you are preparing the 13th budget, you will be ruling this country for 13 years next year. Lajos Kósa was very proud here a few hours ago that he was already talking about his 33rd budget debate, and he can speak here for the 33rd time. Now, I would like to suggest to you that you take a little look around this country, not just at the layers and the people and social groups that you have really given a lot of in the last 12 years, but also at last notice the people in this country who have been disadvantaged during these 12 years, they have fallen apart, and they have no chance of getting out of this situation on their own. I propose that the amendments tabled by the opposition be accepted by this House. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the DK Group is also Mr Zoltán Varga. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-23-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Speaking of Lajos Kósa, let's stick to Debrecen because I'd like to share some very recent information with you. Today was the general assembly in Debrecen where the Assembly of Debrecen discussed the proposals for the mayor's submission, which, on the one hand, virtually confirm that even the municipalities led by Fidesz are on the verge of bankruptcy, on the brink of nothing and something, against all the opposite government propaganda. On the other hand, the example of Debrecen itself denies the insane propaganda of being fidesz, living in a city led by Fidesz, perhaps, and then and there the Canaanites will come. Today, the mayor of Debrecen sends a message to you, with his desperate intention to raise the price before the Debrecen General Assembly, that all this you claim to be an overt lie. Fidesz Debrecen, in your beszegváros, where no god or man is seen, is now being sweeten by the government, otherwise Chinese and other Asian battery manufacturers, let them only pollute the lives of the Debrecens, the environment, and plant plants that are harmful to health and nature, as it is far from the high-class gentlemen's town villa in Csút, the Carmelite monastery, because it is just today that the majority of the Fidesz general assembly, of course, as I said earlier, raises or raises the costs of funerals, which the mayor has to pay, above the estimated inflation, well above 10 percent, not only for public transport, but also for the school, kindergarten, crède, catering fees, and even for the so far unearable funeral expenses, which the large part of Debrecens cannot pay. I don't want to say numbers here right now; believe me, that's true. All of this, as we can see, takes place during the year, in the middle of a long-established annual budget, which shows that the city of Debrecen, in rebuttal of all government propaganda, is, on the one hand, in an incredibly difficult situation, and therefore has to put a new burden and a fidesz face on the shoulders of the poor Debrecens who live there. On the other hand, the Orbán government, instead of helping or generating local governments, with newer and newer withdrawals, with an unforgivable increase in the solidarity contribution, is now 3.2 billion forints for Debrecen... and to say one number, the municipality expects an additional revenue of approximately 170 million forints from the increased public transport fee, so it is really just a drop in the sea. [[18.40]] They hereby declare that they want to completely destroy it, they want to bleed out the local government, and it doesn't matter to them either, and here you can see the example of Debrecen being a pro-government or opposition-led settlement. I fear that not only do the members of the government not want to understand it, but they simply don't want to understand it, not only do they want to understand it, but they don't want to hear it, that it is no longer a political issue that I am talking about; it is not that the second largest city in the country is in a state of bankruptcy, and otherwise it is not an honour to examine that Lajos Kósa, who is looking at it, has an immeasurable merit; and, for example, that the social institutions in Debrecen refer to the 1950s and are in an unworthy state, and that without renovation it can be regarded as a dreary prison rather than a health and social institution. That is why I have tabled amendments to compensate for the losses of billions of Community transport in Debrecen and to fully renovate social institutions. 'Cause it seems like this town led by Fidesz is important, less so for the city, and Lajos Kósa doesn't care. Of course, we know very well, and the representative of the government, who sits here, that this is a drop in the sea, because even though Debrecen would be a school town, the least that can be seen is whether the city is a city, or even the Ipanics, and God knows what else would be insane, a visionating government in any way, even for the Debrecens. There is no doubt that at Orbán's express request, I will say only 5 billion forints of public money and once again: a real XXI was built with public money to satisfy all needs. It is an educational institution of the 21st century, and it is very important that the local government educational institution, the International School of Debrecen, which the Municipality of Debrecen supports by half a billion forints a year, with a small amount of more, but only children of families in Debrecen who can pay the annual tuition fee of up to 5 million forints. So an average student in Debrecen can admire the facility protected by bars, cameras and guards only from the outside if allowed into the closed parking lot. And not only the student, I have to add, but the teacher, who is not so lucky, or who does not have such good political relations, that the average teacher's salary can receive several times, even one and a half million forints, in this school, in luxury conditions. We know very well that the income of a teacher working in a non-fidesz uplifting elite school is slowly low on hunger. I know you say otherwise, but you have to listen to the teachers, including the teachers of Debrecen, what they think about this, what is real to them. Because it is not the localized International School of Debrecen, where only the children of the Fidesz, I might say, and the capitalist elite come to the table, if we are talking about education and I have to add, that is, unfortunately, true. The terrible reality of the world in Orbán, while we are talking about education, is more of a Vladivostok bottom to be true to the position of the current government, because, you know, it is quite incredible that in the heart of Europe, a government is constantly spending more on the operation of state bureaucracy, such as education. 2022 Orbáni in Hungary, the reverends, the county and unfortunately in the world of jugglers, is now the case. The fact that public funds spent on education represent 3.4 percent of GDP in next year's budget is not even close to the EU average. It is terrible to even think that, for example, 12.1 percent of 18-24 - year - olds did not have secondary education and did not have training, so they are early school leavers. Do you know when this number has decreased in the last 20 years alone in Hungary? Do you know a respected representative of the government? Well, I'll tell you. Between 2004 and 2009, when the Prime Minister of Hungary was called Gyurcsány Ferenc. Words and adjectives are very difficult to find in the way your government handles educators. Next year's budget only supports what Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér proudly said these days that there will be no teacher's wage increase. Well, that's terrible. There's hardly any teachers left on the field, and everyone knows it. According to the calculations of the Teachers' Union, 12,000 full-time teachers are currently missing from public education, and unfortunately we are not at the bottom of the pit. And how leaky next year's budget is for teachers' salaries, nothing shows better than the fact that today in Hungary the wage of a beginner teacher can remain unchanged for up to 14 years from the start of the course. Your budget of the Orbán course does not give any meaningful answer, nor does it treat the shame that today the salary of a beginner educator should be supplemented by HUF 16 300 to reach the guaranteed minimum wage. Hungarian teachers earn 66-75 percent of the national average wage in better cases, which is extremely low even in regional comparison. While wages in EU countries are gradually rising at higher levels of education, this is not the case here at all. In addition to the weakness of public support for the sector, the educational structure also unfortunately refers to the period of the county. Thus, the current outdated, so to speak, retrograde system is simply not suitable for providing modern knowledge. Just as it is horrifying, by the way, that you slowly, seeing Minister Pintér's revelations, think of it as a kind of police station, along with all its rules and corners, as a dead end to complete centralization, and a reduction in educational centralization, school and teaching autonomy is a major crime. There's a lot more we can talk about. This budget of yours is exactly what you are: terrible. The question is that you, the representatives and vassals of the Orbán system, are able to recognize all of this, or continue to build a world of lies as long as you can, with sluggish, sugar-soaked, false national, rhymeous boots, ankle-snapping, strapping, lying, as you can, with reeds, county, king, and unfortunately more and more ghosts. My fear is that their answer to this and the government's answer to that is a categorical no. You don't understand anything, and you don't understand anything in the 21st century. From the world of the century. This is your world, Hungary will not ask for this sooner or later. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK group is also Mr Zoltán Komáromi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Parliament, The health of the population represents an efficiency, productivity and growth reserve for the economy, which can be improved by prevention, strengthening health awareness and making the institutional system effective. Health is part of national wealth, the foundation of the country's most important resource, human capital. Long-term illness reduces working time, labour productivity and premature death cause significant damage to the national economy. Therefore, the preservation of existing health benefits society not only from humanitarian but also from economic aspects. In addition to a healthy lifestyle, the early detection of the disease can be supported by regular health checks, screening tests and the flawless functioning of the general medical system. The health status of the Hungarian population is below that of countries with similar development in the region, which, due to the gradual ageing of society, is increasingly burdensome for health care systems that face many challenges. In recent years the health and life prospects of Hungarians have deteriorated in Hungary. The rate of premature deaths is 506 people per 100,000 inhabitants, double the EU average. We also have the highest mortality rate of malignant tumours in the European Union. Due to these factors, a real renewal of the domestic health system would also be of paramount importance, which would be the undisputable task of the current government. [[18.50]] The current government shows, on the one hand, the responsibility for the health status of the population by means of the government structure and the professionals in charge, and, on the other hand, by means of the budget it presents to the public what it considers important and what it does not. The text, spirit and numbers of the draft law before us show that the government sends the message to the Hungarian people that they are not interested in education, training of professionals, keeping them, or health care for Hungarian people. In addition to the government's conscious inflation rate of 5.2 percent, only a 4% increase in the health sector budget sends a message to all professionals in the sector and to patients that the erosion of public health will continue next year. The fact that the nominal share of the health sector in the budget has never been so low also sends us the same message. I believe that the governing parties continue to abuse the vocation, determination and patience of professionals in this sector. And we are going to drink very much about this, not only here in Budapest and in the county towns, where the traditionally functioning hospital and clinic structure is still available for patients, but also in the countryside, where most of the villagers 40-50 km away from the nearest hospital are no longer a general doctor, because I do not consider it appropriate to provide general medical care if a general practitioner appears in a settlement twice a week three hours a week. I don't want to talk about dental care. It is no coincidence that in the spring, during the campaign, we have repeatedly said that the first urgent step of the elected government in the operation of health care will be to give health professionals and non-medical professionals a significant increase in wages. There's no sign of that here. It is not by chance that Minister Pintér has been pessimistic about this in the last three or four weeks. Let's see the numbers. Currently, about 70-75 000 workers are employed in public health institutions. It is a huge problem that for years there have been about 25-30 thousand workers, and I would add that about 8-9 thousand specialists are lacking in the smooth and high-quality operation of the current institutional system. In a year or two, up to 8 to 10 000 well-educated, experienced workers can retire and their continued employment as pensioners can only be solved at the expense of a number of difficulties. The fact that there's no supplies increases the problem. Only 6,000 professionals graduate from vocational schools each year. In order for health professions to regain their prestige, it is certainly necessary that the large, one-off basic wage increase mentioned above be made in the foreseeable future, because in the absence of this experience, less and less people are applying to medical secondary schools. In addition, freshly completed, language-speaking nurses are welcome with open arms in Austria, Germany and in many European countries, where they can work in a normal job schedule in a much better working environment for a multiple of today's starting wages. For graduates and college graduates, these factors and trends can become even more serious. It would be very important for NEAS to be able to work out the steps of a hopeful restructuring, which will be forced out by the increasing human resources crisis sooner or later. This requires good professionals, who have to be paid. The NEAK budget budget, the personal benefits are 7%, and the cost of rem is 4%, certainly not a chance to do that. The draft shows in black and white that none of the actors in preventive care receive a raise compared to the 2022 framework, which would compensate for future inflation and facilitate the safe functioning of the health care system, or the development of it; 6.3 percent of dental care and 5.4 percent increase in the general medical register, even though these two items are the largest increase. Of course, the importance of basic supply for 30 years has hardly been said by all experts and politicians. However, the underfunding of the cash register is well indicated by the fact that last year's medical and assistant wage support increased the cash register by 75%. However, in parallel with this really leaping increase, GPs were warmly recommended at all forums to form practice communities with the promise that funding for prevention and care activities undertaken by the practice communities would be resolved in 2023 and thereafter. In addition, the funding of general practitioners' wage support was linked to this. I'm asking you where the budget cover is. The government has repeatedly referred to the fact that in recent years it has spent billions of dollars filling empty GP and dental practices, but this has not even slowed down the process that has accelerated for 10 to 12 years. I find it most tragic that professional care, emergency services and home care should be managed with virtually the same money as this year's framework next year. The curative-preventive provision, which could help this, continued to decline to HUF 7.3 billion, which represents 0.3 percent of the register. What's it gonna be enough for? I ask: next year, will we be surprised that rescue workers ordered from the countryside continue to perform patient transport tasks in Budapest by browsing the map? Are we going to wonder if an elderly patient with a hip joint fracture, returning home from the hospital, doesn't have access to the right medical gymnastics within six to eight weeks, which, by the way, will affect his mobility for the rest of his life? Are we going to be surprised that waiting times in waiting lists and outpatient care are going to increase unsatisfyingly? I don't think we'll be surprised. To sum up, the draft budget law clearly shows that the Orbán government still does not regard education or health as a priority. With a 4-percent increase in the health insurance fund, throwing up government liability, neither saving nor improving the health care that bleeds from a hundred wounds. In this sector, too, without minimal political courage, the government is playing for short-term survival, wanting to take back the money distributed before the elections, and the consequences of this will be best felt by the poorest people living in the worst conditions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, With this, we have completed the speeches by Members of the European Parliament, which have been registered in advance in writing. Before I give you the opportunity to speak with the button on the ground, it is my duty to ask my fellow Members if someone will apply for a two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then it is up to Congresswoman Anna Russian from the Momentum Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-23-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Speaker,
u2022-06-23-114	[[Without microphone:]] I'm sorry, Congresswoman, but I'm not the Speaker.
u2022-06-23-115	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2022-06-23-116	[[Without microphone:]] I'm sorry, just because I'm not brave... [[Defiance. Interjection: Until there's trouble.]]
u2022-06-23-117	What's late doesn't go away. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable House, and most respected Hungarian citizens, who follow the general debate on the budget from here to Parliament. During today, I am one of the last speakers, if I have calculated correctly, the 47th speaker in the general debate on the budget, and as many Hungarian citizens, I have listened to most of the comments partly in person, partly online, and I find it distressing that one of the most decisive debates of the year will have exactly zero impact on the government's actions, which we do not reflect more than that the House is currently practically empty. [[19.00]] Their arguments, which are trying to protect the indefensible, are also devastating, for example, by increasing spending on education, while by adding the level of real inflation to the expenditure figures, it is immediately apparent that in 2023 there will be virtually less public resources for schools than they had this year, even though teachers already earn less than cashiers or garbagemen. Or to quote one of your favourite arguments, they still perform much better than the governments before 2010, which, on the one hand, is a lie, because if we look at the public education indicators before 2010, we see that they are performing worse in virtually every existing dimension than before 2010, and on the other hand, they could be proud to perform better than Hungary did, say, during the Turkish conquest, 350 years ago, and otherwise, congratulations on their performance! Dear fellow Members, If, in the light of your own budget, you could finally speak frankly to the Hungarian people about what awaits us in 2023, they would be in great trouble, because too many people would understand that there is a dog world waiting for us; of course, not for the Fidesz lords who pocket tens of millions of dollars a day or for the fat-pocketed Archbishops, but for the serfs who work hard in their maiden names. [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] Many had an experience at the beginning of the year that they had finally received a larger amount from the government, which could be put aside for expenses that had not previously been available, to exchange a refrigerator, to take a week's vacation to Balaton, to receive emergency medical care in private clinics, because in public care, we should wait years for this kind of thing. Well, some of this money has now been taken away by the continuous and consciously weakened forint, while the inflation is being held in vain for the war, the Hungarian people know that it has already reached a record level in the months prior to the war, and the rest of the reserves have already been recovered by the Orbán government. Of course, not by taking the consequences of their actions in life, but by hiding behind the skirts of companies, they invented this penalty tax, although their economic experts and analysts told you precisely that once this special tax is levied, the companies will take it and pass it on to the population, i.e. the Hungarian people will pay the price of this special tax. That is why we call the budget of Fidesz 2023 the budget of poverty, the budget of empty wallets. In addition to the poverty, the following expression, which comes to mind about Fidesz's draft budget for 2023, is the "Irority" for me. There is a very important issue, which defines a lot of things from the prices of goods and services, to the quality of our homes and to the climate situation, to which this budget also does not answer. And this question sounds to me how the Orbán government intends to manage, alleviate the energy crisis that has been happening in the world and which has long been spreading to Hungary, how the government intends to give a lasting response to this, and how Fidesz intends to reduce Hungary's dependence and exposure to war criminal Putin. In Hungary, households make up a significant part of the final energy consumption. In 2020, the share of households was 34%, almost 6 percentage points higher than the average of the European Union. The result of your past 12 years' policy is that today one in five Hungarian homes is essentially uninhabitable, unlivable, the XXI. It is simply unworthy of European Hungary in the first century. The roof of 20 percent of the Hungarian apartments is leaking, the walls are wet, the windows are rotten. With this figure, we are the 25th of the EU Member States, while Romania is the tenth of the Member States that we so often feel sorry for. In the last decade, Fidesz would have had a unique opportunity to answer these historical questions raised by the energy crisis with the support of the European Union. You don't live with that. Now, the EU's recovery fund would serve the same purpose in part, so that the Hungarian people can modernise their homes, but the draft budget shows that you do not want to take advantage of this option next year. A voter in New Buda told me that a few years ago he threw out his convectors, tied up the gas in his apartment, installed heat pumps, insulated windows, energy-recovering ventilation in his apartment; so that it was 23 degrees in winter, his heating bill was less than 2,000 HUF per month on average. Unfortunately, 99 percent of Hungarians would not be able to afford such a complete energy upgrade, but if the government had the political will to do so, hundreds of thousands of other Hungarian families could do so with EU funds, and then we should not constantly be afraid of when the war criminal, bloody dictator will close the gas taps. This is precisely why we urge the energy modernisation of at least 100,000 homes a year in the Momentum, which would be possible from approximately HUF 300 billion. That would be the real reduction in the rent. The 300 billion forints, by the way, are abundantly spent on their unnecessary spending, it would be enough to squander less money for public visual investment, the operation of propaganda, or even Paks II. As an individual representative of Újbuda, I also see exactly how high the cost of energy is of local authorities now that they have to pay the price of energy on the world market. In NewBudan, the increase in electricity and gas prices could affect next year's budget by hundreds of millions of forints, and in addition, you will increase the rate of solidarity tax by 70 percent compared to this year, from 127 billion forints to 217 billion forints. From the Covid crisis, we already know exactly how to make Fidesz impossible the opposition-led settlements, and how to punish the inhabitants of the opposition-led settlements, and how, in the background, in the sly way, to compensate for the lost revenues for the fidesz-led, kissing municipalities. The problem is that the residents are actually being punished. The newbuda municipality and many settlements of the country still spend hundreds of millions of forints to supplement the wages of daycare workers, kindergartens, social and healthcare workers, who are shamelessly kept low by the state, so that small children can grow up in the hands of respected people, and that people who are socially or medically dependent can have access to decent care. But the NewBudans are losing your budget because there is no mention, for example, of the renovation and expansion of school buildings, which would be desperately needed by the districts. Tens of years old, often hundreds of years old in school buildings, rotting walls are taught by teachers and children are learning, which is unworthy of a XXI. European Hungary of the century. On the other hand, you are drawing up residential parks in the context of priority government investments, with which thousands of people move into the district, but do not provide sufficient resources for the necessary infrastructure improvements, i.e. they do not build new cradle, kindergartens, schools with state aid, while these residential parks are built on state aid. Furthermore, there is no mention in the budget of the car traffic that goes to the district every day, there is no mention of extending metro line 4, or there is no mention of our beloved project, the implementation of the well-wanted Danube promenade between the Kopasi dam and Budafok, which would really not cost much, but would mean a great deal to the people of New Buda. One word, like a hundred, this budget is not the budget of the Hungarians and not the majority of the New Buda people. This budget will benefit entrepreneurs close to Fidesz, but for the majority it will be the year of poverty and empty wallets next year. I have no doubt that, despite this and despite legitimate criticisms and constructive proposals, Fidesz will vote for this without any substantive amendments. The problem is that the consequences and costs will be borne by the Hungarian people, the Hungarian people will pay next year. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]] [[19.10]]
u2022-06-23-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[Holding his phone in his hand to Éva Sebők, standing between the rows of chairs:]] I will ask Mrs Éva Scarők to be in her place, because if she is not there, I cannot speak. And you're next. The next speaker from the Momentum Group is Ms Éva Sebők. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, A lot of people have talked about health care today, in a lot of approaches. The health problem is known to all of us, with a wide range of medical and nurse shortages, funding problems, waiting lists, lack of tools, brutal administration, hospital debts, and I could say more. It is important to talk about all of this, and we need systemic transformations, which will certainly not be easy. Today, however, I would like to bring a problem that can be solved more quickly to this House, our dear fellow Members. As Orosházi, one of the most common problems that the residents of the region come to me with is the situation of the hospital and SZTK in Orosháza, officially known as Dr. László Elek Hospital and Police Institute. The problem is, of course, the same problems that I have already mentioned, which are present nationwide: long waiting time, lack of a doctor. In addition, one of the most frequently mentioned problems, especially in the summer, is the climateization of the hospital and the SZTK in Orosház, in particular its lack. Please try to imagine yourself in the situation of a patient trying to recover from major surgery in a hospital room that could be operated as a sauna. Think about how we're in this room now in a climate-controlled room: who needs the right temperature more? For us or for someone recovering from major surgery? But, please, imagine the situation of the mother who is giving birth during a warm front, and should do a 20-hour labor and then go through the crib under similar conditions. I am convinced that the Hungarians deserve better than this, and that the people of Orosháza deserve better. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We, representatives of the Momentum faction, have tabled an amendment to the budget. We recommend that we provide a framework for the complete air-conditioning of the hospital and clinic in Orosháza. I urge you to support our amendment. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Over the past 15-20 years, development aids have come to Orosháza-Gyopárosfürdő on a billion-dollar scale. This was the case during the current governing parties and during the MSZP. There was and there is and there will be everything here, they built a conference center to break it down, they built a 3D theater, and then they cut it in half, and soon there'll be a boat-shaped playhouse and fairy tale park, there'll be school trails and entrance gates, solar panels and souvenir shops, meditation parks and event spaces. What was right and what was stupid at this point there is nothing to argue about, what was, has happened. If you allow me to give my personal opinion, a future prosecutor's office will certainly have to deal with a number of people on a project or two. However, that is not the point at this point, but that there is a great risk that all these investments, built on Hungarian and EU taxpayers' money, will become ultimately and completely wasted money. Why is that? Because as long as we built Gyopárosfürdő for good money with smart and less smart investments, the political elite let the two things around it and on which it is built for all other chandeliers rot. Both the bath and the Gyopáros lakes are in a catastrophic state. For example, the top of the Gyopáros spa broke in 2020 and the significant area of the spa still cannot be used. The city administration and the county assembly have been doing math since then on how and how to solve it. The number of guests decreased significantly, causing further difficulties for the region after damage caused by the corona virus in the sector. If we want to give any, any meaning to all the investments that have been made in Gyopárosfürdő with taxpayers' money over the last 20 years, then we must now put the money into fixing the funds. Explore the bath, find all the damage, all the failed maintenance, and put in the money to ensure that the bath is stable and fully operational in the long term and reliable. In addition to the spa, the lakes must also be fixed. While the maintenance fishing communities are trying to do everything they can to save the Gyopáros lakes, their area is constantly growing, the water depth is constantly falling, the lakes are muddy to a foolish degree, and keeping the reeds under control is a serious challenge. It would be critical to have a proper dredge, to strengthen the walls, to repair the reeds and to build more regular pier in order to make the lakes of Gyopáros and to stay and not puddles. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Orosháza-Gyopárosfürdő has submitted a budget adjustment to fix the base of the Momentum fraction. I ask you to support the amendment, to support us in putting this money into it now, so that we do not lose the money we have already put into it. This is critical for preserving the region's tourism and catering jobs and creating additional quality jobs. We at Momentum claim that this is what Hungarians' money should be spent on, hospitals, schools and jobs. Thank you very much. [[Russian Anna applauds.]]
u2022-06-23-120	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Culture is rarely mentioned in the budget, and if we talk about it now, but at least talk about it. The ambitious growth hopes that appear in the budget, cultural life, on the basis of this, deserved an independent cultural wallet, should be worth about 3-3.5 percent of economic growth, as it would be visible on its own, but as health, the world of work, environmental protection and education, culture has also bled out in this area. Obviously, it is also a strange situation that areas of culture are distributed between several wallets. For example, the Hungarian film belongs to the Ministry led by Antal Rogán, where the secret services and propaganda belong. As far as the Hungarian film is concerned, we can already conclude that it is worrying that important, significant creators are applying in vain. People who were able to bring hundreds of thousands into the cinema made popular films, as well as those who have strengthened the reputation of Hungarian film with many international success. It would be necessary for these people to finally receive support. In four years, the government has allocated more than HUF 50 billion of public money to the Hungarian Culture Foundation linked to Szilárd Demeter. This kind of institutional and ideological concentration is unacceptable according to the Democratic Coalition. Museums, creative houses and castles belong here, but the cultural struggle directed from there is not good for the Hungarian culture as a whole. It is very important that not only the ideology and values of Fidesz appear in Hungarian works, and these should also be distributed in the right way on all media surfaces. In addition, Szilárd Demeter said that he is only accountable to Viktor Orbán, which is obviously a strange situation that the Fidesz MEPs have no influence on his activities. We also find the fate of academic research institutions unsolved, the removal from the Castle has taken place, and some of the buildings are currently abandoned, while the government spends a great deal of money on other visual projects. According to DK, it is very regrettable that they have ignored the complaints and concerns that there are many books and rarities in the National Széchényi Library and waiting for destruction in the dust. The National Library has long outgrown its territory in the Castle, unsolved storage. A new one, the 21st. A new institution, a new library, meeting the requirements of the 20th century, is needed, and this is not mentioned in the budget. You can see that the government is loading the Balassi Institute here and there, now it is returned from the State Department to the innovation wallet, perhaps with the aim of strengthening Hungarian cultural diplomacy. [[19.20]] In the past, the Gyurcsány government operated it accordingly, and it would have been very good to see in the budget that there will be Hungarian cultural weeks in the most important capitals of the world, but this has not yet been achieved. In the case of the City Park project and the additional investments planned there, we recommend that the government coordinate with the capital city in any case. There's also a building called Biodom, which is currently being destroyed. This is a well oversized investment, and the loss of millions or perhaps tens of millions of forints per day is caused by the fact that this building is there and nobody cares about it. You should think about what you can do with it. Part of the cultural budget is the state media issue. It is amazing, but it is not surprising that the state media budget will again be more than HUF 100 billion, where virtually only pro-government news will appear. If opposition politicians do show up, then it's only about discrediting them. Commercial radios are subject to the same rule, and opposition news is not published there. This is manipulation, deception and betraying the freedom of the press, according to the position of the Democratic Coalition. Sometimes, sobbing, divided hosts turn up, telling us in what threatening circumstances they read the news generated by Fidesz, but then it quiets down, and then the same thing goes on, as if nothing had happened. To sum up, the budget of 2023 has been fragmented; the ideological war, the continuation of the cultural struggle can be seen from its figures and trends on culture, as well as the fact that several wallets have acquired areas for themselves, rather than overseeing Hungarian cultural life by a single, independent cultural portfolio. Looking at the numbers of the budget on the quagmire soil, it is not certain that these numbers will be valid in six months' time. DK is concerned that general inflation, rising costs, people's poverty will also affect cultural consumption patterns. If there is no money to clothe, eat, people will be able to spend even less on movies, theatre, books, concerts, because the price of these is constantly rising. Today, the livelihood crisis created by the Orbán government hides unknown dangers for Hungarians who love culture, and it is also worth changing. National culture is very important to the Democratic Coalition. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-06-23-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Group of Dialogue, Imre Jámbor Imre Jámbor has applied for a speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The history of this budget dates back to at least 30 years, as this budget has been the continuation of the failed Hungarian economic policy for the last 30 years and the past 10 years. This budget reeks of economic policy, the result of which is that the losers of the regime are getting lower and the winners are living in a better and better way. Ladies and gentlemen, My mom raised me alone, working as a social worker in child protection. I know what it's like to eat greasy bread at the end of the month if there's nothing else to eat. My family was the family of the losers of the change of regime, and that I am here now is not the Hungarian normal, I owe it not to your political elite, but to the job's best luck. While you are crying out for a nation state, fighting for sovereignty and flogging foreign capital, it is clear from this budget that the nation state is used only in the interests of their political interests, their own elites, and not for the nation as a whole; that sovereignty is not for the people, but for the sovereignty of their own power, and that they are only fighting with the capital when it is in their power interests, not when it is in the interests of the people. You're not trying to move the people forward, you're trying to produce new chief priests, oligarchs. You have not learned anything from the mistakes of the Hungarian economy before 2010, and you have no concept of how to pull the country out of a series of crises. You are the lucky knights of the global economic growth of the last 10 years, and let us acknowledge that you are the most skilled users of power magic. If we look at next year's budget, we can see that they continue to pay the workers. Instead, we say, let the rich pay! It is unacceptable for us that you want to fill the budget holes from VAT, sja, excise duty, which, yes, in addition to the war, has been caused by your corrupt government for the sake of their power and their completely irrational distribution of power in economic policy. You are pursuing a tax policy that serves the unspoken magic of your word, the payment of the employees' needs. You have reduced corporate taxes to 9 percent and let the biggest companies pay even less tax with the trick. Audi should have paid around 60 billion taxes over the past five years, instead it paid 3.9 billion corporate taxes. And what's in it for them? A little more support, 8.5 billion, which is twice the tax on the last five years, to create 500 jobs that will be filled by workers from jobs that will soon be closed. You will give Audi 17 million HUF for a new job and will pay the wage costs for 3 years in advance. Obviously, the Audi is still bringing some to the country. But how much does it take? How much do you leave to get me out? How much do you leave with the rich when you're taken from the people? You are trying to fill the budget holes with 27 percent VAT and inflation, the weak forint. While this will decouple 2,000 billion employees from this and the additional income from the sja, they will collect 650 billion from the special taxes alone, most of which are consumer types of taxes that they know will be passed on to the people by companies. Then whose side are you on? Who's gonna pay? You will cancel the salaries, and while Viktor Orbán's salary, the salaries of the ministers are being increased, you hope that the multinationals will increase the salaries of those who work for them because of the weak forint. This will increase the average wage and your associated salary, but the real value of the salaries of police officers, teachers, nurses, firefighters, social workers and cultural workers will decrease. Meanwhile, they increase seasonal work, extend the so-called chips tax most affecting the poorer, and are expected to increase the tax burden on most of the now available ones. You are pursuing a policy that increases the differences in this country so that you can understand both the Archbishop and the nation's day laborers. While you lie about sharing a burden, while there is no tax on casinos and no tax on the companies of Mészáros, Garancsi and Tiborcz, while there is no solution to the housing crisis, there is no solution to the rising food prices, there is no solution to the emerging social crisis. You are still pursuing a perverted redistribution in which the wealthier get twice as much support from the state as the troubled. It's not a community, it's not a nation, it's a budget for feeding their own power. This budget is a continuation of the post-regime economic policy described best in the report of the German Chamber of Industry in May. According to German companies, taxes and salaries are low and labour law in Hungary is weak. Although skills have improved, it has not improved because of the Hungarian education system, but because of foreign workers you have imported at an amazing rate. On the other hand, the lack of security of the rule of law and corruption hinder competitiveness. This is your Hungary! For 5 years we have only 8 million, today we are paying 17 million forints to create a job for multinationals; for 3 years they pay the wages of the employees to large companies in advance. Hungarian companies could also be successful from this. And the money that they give direct support, they give it tax relief, they give it to multinationals in unpaid taxes, they lack Hungarian medium-sized enterprises, they lack education, they lack health care, they lack this budget. The money that pays their own power, their oligarchs, the teachers, the firefighters, the social workers, the policemen, the pay of the people working in culture. You are building the state from crisis to crisis; more and more money is being made out of the country; more and more money is being poured out from the state into their own pockets, and less and less is being left to the Hungarian people, to the development of the Hungarian economy. And crises are coming faster and faster. Capitalism uses human and natural resources as one, conquering new and new territories. We see how the transformation of the natural conditions in Syria has contributed to the civil war and this refugee crisis. We see how desertification will contribute even more to this worldwide. We see that large epidemics are the result of the exploitation of nature's resources, and there is still a likelihood of an epidemic like Covid. We can see how the fight for water, for land, for food, for rare metals, requires redistribution of battery production, the market for electric cars. In this situation, which you are doing, building Hungary from crisis to crisis on a failing model, so that you do not strive for a strong state, a strong government, strong authorities, resources put into the people, knowledge, health, protection of our environment, and a dead-end politics in a period of crisis-to-crisis. A strong Hungarian state should be sought to protect the people, not the powerful, not the Archbishops, not the oligarchs. This is a matter of sovereignty, in fact, of popular sovereignty. This budget is a budget for cuts in Orbán, a neoliberal, anti-state budget based on chamumodernisation, which doesn't pay any attention to needs. There's still a way back. You can still tax the cassinos, Ripper; you can still pay a decent tax; you can still deal with the problems of the livelihood, housing and food crisis. [[19.30]] Even you can replace the drape from the employees to the rich. They can start building a new economic model based on knowledge and talent, chance and prosperity, rather than work on living, human happiness instead of human resources. But the basis for this is not for the workers, but for the rich. They can still open a new paper in the history of the Hungarian economy, which uses capital for the benefit of the entire society, which strengthens medium-sized enterprises, which strengthens businesses that do not take out or distort capital, which can create world-class businesses and companies that are at least relevant in Europe, which can guide the Hungarian economy for up to 20-30 years. But we don't see that, we're seeing the Orban restrictions. What we're seeing is that you're going to appoint a high priest and raise the taxes of the day laborers in the same bill. I think that says everything. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, we can only alleviate the damage you cause, for example, to Budapest, Ferencváros and Józsefváros. We can only settle the withdrawals and promises that you owe Budapest, Józsefváros and Ferencváros. Please, as it is everywhere in the world, support public transport in Budapest with as much as the capital will put in it, because public transport is used not only by the Hungarians, but by all Hungarian citizens. According to the calculations, the proportion of users in Budapest and non-Budapest is broadly similar. We ask local authorities to benefit from public burdens paid by owners of motor vehicles to ensure the source of high-quality public services for motor vehicle owners. Please ensure that the solidarity contribution of local authorities remains at the level of 2019, with the aim of submitting the amendment. Please give us the HUF 6 billion awarded to the Chain Bridge. They have no right to sell Budapest, and they have no interest in it, because without Budapest there is no Hungary, and without Hungary there is no Budapest. Support the solidarity fund created by the capital city from state resources plus HUF 300 million. The livelihood crisis that you will continue to strengthen is causing huge problems. The capital solidarity fund is trying to address these problems, the problems caused to the poor and the problems caused by poverty. In my constituency, where most of the country's social services are located, the current homeless system, which you bleed out of money, is a problem for homeless people and local residents. Please support it, and I urge Máté Kocsis in particular, and he should also support more money to solve the common problems of homeless people and the Yovezváros. Please also support the arrival of at least 300 million forints in Józsefváros for energy investments. Obviously, we need a national program here to renovate condominiums and panel houses, which would reduce our overhead, our energy dependency and the planet, but since we don't see this, please at least help us in this district with this minimum amount of money. The housing crisis is a huge problem and there is no support for the municipalities. Please help to renovate 800 vacant apartments in Yózsefváros and take possession of them by workers and families now living in poor housing conditions. The municipalities can't afford this because of your withdrawal. So do it. What we are asking, Józsefvárosi, is that you keep the promises promised by Fidesz' eighth district politicians, Mr. Máté Kocsis, and Mr. Botond's future chief minister with government budget money. Please support the confirmation of the local police by HUF 500 million, since the local police that you are supervising are barely on call for decommissioning. Please support the renovation of Horváth Mihály tér, Népszínház utca, Orczy tér, the area of the Thirty-Twenties, as promised in the campaign, support the renovation of the district playgrounds, the renovation of condos and the renovation of public toilets and district green spaces. That was also promised in the campaign. We also ask that the renovation of the Dési Huber Cultural House be supported at the József Attila residential estate, so that retirement and children's programmes can finally be implemented in better conditions. We do not see the first phase of Student City in the budget, but this was promised not only in a contract with the capital, but also in a contract with Krisztina Baranyi in connection with the athletic stadium. At least 4000 dormitory seats should be built for our children, and not for some private developer, but for young people from the difficult situation in Pest and rural areas. Finally, on behalf of the Ferencváros, we ask that you support the urban rehabilitation. If not as before, but at least help renovate two houses in Ferencváros, and one in such a way as not only to alleviate the housing crisis, but also to achieve a meaningful result in improving the living conditions of disabled people. Not much to ask. An oligarch of yours gets more than that a month. The only thing we humbly ask of the Archbishop gentlemen to the people is a more livable Budapest and the return of the funds taken from Budapest. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-23-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to answer now. [[Peter Benő Banai: Yes.]] Yes, thank you very much. Péter Benő Banai has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-23-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In recent comments, I believe that there have been very strong words and very strong statements. Speaking representatives talked about the world of jugglers, serfs, day laborers. A sentence has been said that we are facing the livelihood crisis created by the Orbán government, and it has been said by Mr András Jámbor that he has not learned anything from the mistakes of economic policy before 2010. Now, I agree with one part of this last sentence, and I agree with the mistakes of economic policy before 2010. That the government has learned from the mistakes that unfortunately described Hungary, allow me to give you some dates, some data. I am saying this because I believe that the fundamental philosophical difference is seen in the past comments and in the economic policy of the government, which has appeared again and again since 2010. There is a vision, a line of economic policy, which focuses essentially on aid, and another line, followed by civil government since 2010, which places emphasis on work. So if we want to raise someone and you want people to live as much as possible, let the poorest have the opportunity to rise to the middle class, I believe that work is the primary way. Let's see what the employment data looked like in 2010. On the basis of Eurostat data, we were last in Europe in terms of the employment level of the population aged 15-64. Last place! By 2021, we moved to 9th place. In terms of unemployment, we moved from 19th to 5th place based on the data closing by 21st year. So I repeat: I think that if you work, you have a higher income, you have a more serious chance of catching up than you do if you live on welfare. This also gives the individual stamina, and I am deeply convinced that it provides support and results at national level. It is no coincidence that, after our accession, GDP in the so-called purchasing power parities was fluctuating, but after 2010 and especially after the 13th year growth turn, we can see a substantial catch-up. According to the latest data, 76 percent of the GDP in Hungary is the EU average at purchasing power parities. We have preceded a number of countries that have previously joined, which have preceded us after accession, and we have now preceded it, see Slovakia. So my first important statement is that if you consider catching up important, then the work is worth supporting. If you work, you make money against help, and if you look at the last few years, the real income of the lowest earners has also increased. You're talking about breaking down. I do not always want to point back to the past, but, in the interests of credibility, let me say that between 2010 and 2022, those who raised three children had a 158.4% increase in their real income. Repeat: 158.4 percent increase. This is the two-and-a-half of real income. As a point of reference, between 2002 and 2010, the same minimum wage earner suffered a loss of 7.6 percent of his real earnings. [[19.40]] What does that mean? Families where parents worked on a minimum wage and had, say, three children, had been separated earlier, so the child's commitment meant poverty, while children's participation at minimum wage after 2010 and the increase in the minimum wage resulted in a significant increase in income. There was a claim that family support can only be made to the middle class, the richer. Let me tell you that a family with three children, both employed at minimum wage, can fully benefit from the family discount. The minimum wage is 200,000 forints. If the gross combined income in a family is 309 375 HUF, the family tax allowance for three children can be used at 100%. Why? Because this benefit can also be applied from personal income tax and contributions. If I look at the support for home creation or home renovation, these are subsidies but also all forms of support that are available regardless of the income limit. So I cannot agree with the findings that family support only favors the middle or upper class. I have now moved on to the situation of the children. Lot. Erzsébet Németh spoke of poverty growth and child hunger. Let's see what's going on with the children's meal. From 2015 children's meals are free, free of charge for children of families with three or more children, children with persistent illness and disabilities and children of parents with one or two children where the per capita income in the family does not exceed 130 per cent of the minimum wage. I repeat: where there is less than 130 percent of the minimum wage, children can eat free of charge, where there are one or two children in the family, and for three or more children there is free catering and for sick children there is free catering. This alone meant that, with the rise in the minimum wage, the government was able to provide a great deal of help to the families concerned, and, moreover, the amount of support for children's meals increased significantly by extending their meals, including on holiday. In 2010, it was HUF 32.12 billion and next year's budget bill contains HUF 98,5 billion. So if they accept the government's proposal, this amount will be available for children's meals. Health, several people have mentioned the state of health. I will also say here that we have, of course, a task in all areas, but no one should think that every year each amount of aid can be increased, because that would be contrary to the responsible management that you have highlighted. However, I can say that, thanks to the economic growth in recent years, the amount of resources for education and the amount of resources for health have increased above cumulative inflation. As regards the total expenditure of the medical register, compared to HUF 1198 billion in 2010 in the next year's draft, the increase is around HUF 2670 billion, which is 123 percent. Thus, from HUF 1197.7 billion in total, the growth of usque is HUF 1471 billion. Within this growth, doctors and nurses also increased their wages. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi, as a doctor, may be able to confirm that both the wages of doctors and the benefits of general practitioners have increased substantially. The total wage weight increases by 303 percent compared to 2010 if the 2023 proposal is accepted by the Parliament. Let me tell you the absolute figures: in 2010 the wage-related expenditure paid for health purposes was not HUF 270 billion, in the next year's draft it is more than HUF 1086 billion; I repeat, it is more than HUF 1086 billion. It also includes the doctor's salary increase for next year. Nurses do a very important job. Let me tell you that this year, too, there has been a wage increase for nurses, the last element of the 72 percent wage increase launched from 1 July 2019, which will take place this year. So there were some progress here, too. I repeat, it is not possible to increase the wages of everyone in all areas in addition to responsible farming, but health is precisely an area of public sector employment where there has been a substantial increase in wages in recent years, in the last decade. I think it is also due to this that, today, statistics on all medical and nursing facilities are better than they were many years ago. I have OECD data in front of me, unfortunately the last year of 2018. The number of doctors per thousand inhabitants in 2010 is 2.9 in Hungary and 3.4 in 2018. The number of nurses per 6.2 thousand inhabitants in 2018 is 6.6. We have Hungarian data from the end of 2021. The number of working doctors and dentists in 2010 is less than 34 thousand, in 2021 38 920. The growth is almost 5,000 people. That's the data. [[Zsolt Gréczy's intervention:]] I hear what the congressmen are saying, which is why I am mentioning credibility. I just don't get it! Look at OECD data: the number of health expenditure per capita decreased before 2010 and then increased. These are OECD data. So what are we talking about? What are we talking about? You're counting a lot of things. I can tell you that in next year's draft budget law, as agreed earlier, doctors will be paid. We are working on the fact that the economic catch-up that has marked Hungary in recent years should be with us in the coming years, regardless of whether there are such problems, regardless of the challenges that war poses. And if we can achieve this goal and maintain high employment, I hope that we will continue to increase wages responsibly. And finally, in the area of health, let me mention, Mr Zoltán Komáromi, doctor, that you may be able to confirm that health is only partly dependent on the state of health institutions. To me, doctors, professors estimate it's calculated to be about 10 to 15 percent. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: This is a mistake.]] It's a mistake, you might be taller. But the doctor may not argue with me that, for example, diabetes, which, you might say, is people's disease in Hungary, is a major part of the way of life, and I think it can make very significant changes in the way of life if as many people move, everyday physical education is followed by children later in adulthood and eating healthyly. In this respect, for example, the public health product tax put forward is a measure which has been explicitly welcomed by the WHO and presented as a positive example to other countries. I repeat, there is still work to be done, but I think that in a budgetary debate we should not go past the figures, and these figures are not only about budget expenditure, but also about the scale of wage increases and the change in the number of doctors and nurses working in Hungarian health care. As far as energy is concerned, this was mentioned by Congresswoman Anna Orosz: does the government take any measures to address the energy crisis, but answers? Due to the increase in energy prices due to the war, we have often said about the importance of the Rezief Protection Fund. However, in response to the energy crisis, let us not go past the home renovation programme or the solar aid proposals. Congresswoman said there were no appropriate answers. I repeat, the home renovation programme was also included in the budget this year, and this is what we are counting on in the 2023 budget. For example, HUF 3 million of non-refundable grants can be used for energy renovation. Many families have taken advantage of this opportunity, and even though we have not received a penny from the so-called EU recovery fund, the government has already pre-financed the solar aid proposals to be financed in this context. [[19.50]] We want to use very important sources of energy efficiency from the EU framework to improve energy efficiency in the future. Finally, education. Let me say again, factually, that expenditure in this area is also increasing, not equally. There is also an additional resource for public education. More significant is the surplus of higher education. And the surplus of higher education, I hope, will help to sustain the economic growth of the coming years, because with greater added value, with the support of greater added value, I trust that we can sustain the expansion of the Hungarian economy not only next year, but perhaps in a decade's perspective. In this direction, in this perspective, the 2023 budget is also pointing in favour of the countless future tasks ahead of us. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-06-23-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak against the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is adjourned. It will continue at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Congressman László Varju from the DK Group said: "What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-23-127	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for your attention. I would like to put the relationship between public purity and public security within the framework of regularly reporting on Újpest, Budapest's 11th constituency, about what is happening and what good examples we may be able to provide. The Budapest Transport Centre is committed to making the busy public squares of the capital more livable in close cooperation with its partners. The participants of the campaign for clean and secure Budapest work on a new site every two weeks, and this time Újpest-Városkapura has been chosen. The public cleanliness and public order action initiated by the BKK to allow citizens in the capital to travel in a cleaner environment has been welcomed since the beginning of 2021. The Újpest-City Gate was another venue for a coordinated operation that became a tradition. The Budapest Közművek Nonprofit Zrt. The public cleanliness company and the FŐKERT Gardening Division, the BKV and the MÁV employees have worked together in this area in accordance with established practice, where the metro station, the MÁV station and the surrounding streets have otherwise been cleaned. The bus station, the subway station and the railway station were also cleaned by hand and by machine, and the area of the Volánbusz railway station, whose employees also supported the work of law enforcement organisations, played an important role in this. In this way, we can add that the Budapest Police Headquarters also played an important role, the increased presence of its staff, as well as the control at the time of the action, so the Metropolitan Municipal Police Directorate was involved in a coordinated work, and the IV. and XIII. Circumstantial lawkeepers and employees of the shelter Foundation. But maintaining public cleanliness can be mutually helpful, just as we may have seen from the action as an experience, our sense of security and public security. In addition to the 62 surveillance cameras in Újpest, 92 cameras now serve the safety of the population in Újpest. Within a year, 30 new equipments were installed on the public area after a preliminary professional consultation between the police and the municipality through the new CCTV development programme. The number of CCTV cameras increased in 2021 and a third thereafter. New system, especially sharp resolution, has received full HD cameras in the last year. Such equipment was installed, among other things, in the Cabbage County II. a section where the number of crimes has fallen spectacularly since then, based on experience. We didn't have surveillance cameras like this before at Wolfwood Street or at the intersection of Wolfforest-Oceanars Street, but we do now. The CCTV system's center and dispatch room should be pictured as we have seen in the movies on several occasions: there are a lot of cameras in the big room and a lot of screens with pictures of the cameras on them. So you can see what's happening in the city on King's Street. Police are serving 24 hours a day at the CCTV Center, and the cameras are constantly monitored in Hungarian, and the people working here are in contact with the service providers. If any kind of violation is detected in public areas or in other areas, they can intervene in this way. However, we already have positive experiences in this regard, since it is safe to say that the criminal who tried to rip the gold chain off an old woman's neck could not escape because he was caught by the police, by the way. I therefore think that we should thank everyone who, by the way, has made our public spaces cleaner and safer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-23-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches after the agenda have been completed. I thank my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, for his work all day, thank you for keeping the minutes, thank you for the help of the staff of the Office of Parliament. The Parliament will resume its work at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you all a good, good night and a safe return home. Meeting day's closed.
