u2022-06-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. The 2nd day of the second extraordinary meeting of the Parliament will be opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dániel Z. Carpathian Members will be present as notaries for my assistance. We will begin the speeches before the agenda. I would first like to address Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let us start from one of the foundations of green policy. We say that the policy essentially aims to help and improve the well-being and quality of life of people, families and communities. Our quality of life is clearly improved if we can live in a liveable environment, which is peaceful, calm, quiet, good air, where we can safely get from A to B. However, the quality of life is clearly deteriorating if these conditions are not met, if we are surrounded by an unlivable environment, because this environment is contaminated, noisy, dirty, smelly, petrol vapour is flooding everything, where congestion and congestion are continuous. We think that we need to be freed from any pressure that negatively affects our quality of life, and that our quality of life is clearly limited by continuous congestion, continuous congestion and over-use by motorists. Therefore, it must be said that the traffic jam must be repressed, the excessive use of motor vehicles must be repressed, so the congestion charge must be introduced in Budapest and the same in the big cities must be considered immediately, from tomorrow. I've got ten reasons for the congestion charge. My first argument is that where the congestion charge was introduced, car traffic decreased, these cities became more livable and greener. My second argument is that everyone living in downtown has the right to a quiet, calm, green environment, and downtown must be freed from over-use by cars, from excessive car traffic. My third argument is that, unfortunately, 10-15 thousand people in Hungary lose their lives every year because of a disease caused by air pollution, we lose two thousand people a year in Budapest for these reasons, unfortunately, and the cork is clearly polluting, clearly damaging, endangering our quality of life and our lives. My fourth argument is that at present, the cost of driving cars is only partly paid by motorists. I am referring to the health damage, health costs or the destruction of the environment, which is not priced but existing costs. There is a need to enforce the principle of paying for the tax, which is to pay for those who use a car. My fifth argument, and this is a positive argument from a cost point of view, is that if we introduce the congestion charge and the car traffic goes down, the traffic stops, then everyone will be easier to drive, the motorists will be able to save time, money, energy, petrol. Therefore, from a financial point of view, it is worth the measure for motorists. My sixth argument is that if there are fewer cars, we need less space for either the cars in traffic or the cars in the parking lot. These road surfaces can be returned to pedestrians, cyclists, caterers or green surfaces. My seventh argument is the argument for climate protection, which is related to the previous one. Obviously, there is a need for as much green space as possible in large cities. Especially in the days of the summer can be felt that neither one of us wants to live in unlivable heat, and the traffic in traffic and traffic is very much related. My eighth argument is that it is the 21st. The quality form of transport in the 20th century is quality community and cycling; if we introduce the congestion charge, we have additional resources to support and improve public transport. For example, this is what the LMP's climate lease proposal is for. It should also be supported by air-conditioning for people to switch from car to public transport. My ninth argument is that this congestion charge is now an intelligent congestion charge, where there is a traffic jam, an increase in charges, where the traffic stops or decreases, and the fee is reduced. Obviously, it can be measured with GPS devices and smart devices. And my tenth argument is that where the cork charge was introduced, they liked it. The last referendum was held in Stockholm, the Swedes love the congestion charge, insisting on it, because their city became more livable. Obviously, there are pre-prepared panels in the Secretary of State's replies. Finally, please do not use the left to raise another face. This is not a sac, it is a traffic control tool, and it is not the left who would like it, because when Gábor Demszky or Gergely Christmas could have done it with a left-wing city guide behind him, he did not introduce the congestion charge. I want the congestion charge, the LMP wants it, the greens want it. It should be introduced from tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Fürjes responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-28-3	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There are several fundamental differences between us, but your speech has also highlighted a fundamental difference in our thinking. We do not want to educate people, we do not want to tell them how to live their lives, what lifestyles they should choose and not choose. We do not want to tell them to drive by car, bicycle, or on foot. We would also like to leave them the choice in this respect, it is a decisive difference between us, so it is difficult for me to imagine that we will come to a common denominator. At the same time, thank you for raising a real problem and pouring clean water into the glass. It is quite clear: Besides Mayor Gergely Christmas, the LMP is now on the side of the cork prize. At least you take this position, the other left-wing parties, Jobbik, DK, Momentum and MSZP have not been so bold as to confess to the congestion charge, but we already know that Gergely Christmas and LMP want the people of Budapest in the vicinity of Budapest, the people of Budapest to pay a congestion charge, as you said, immediately from tomorrow, to drive into the city by car, to use a car in Budapest. Honourable Congressman, I am honoured that you spoke without emotion and clearly, and we know from yesterday's latest lesson, Mr. Black-Győr Group leader, that, as God gives you, so do you. Since you have spoken clearly and professionally, I would also like to make it very clear: the problem is real, the congestion charge as a solution is wrong, so there will be no congestion charge. The problem is real, Budapest's transport is really in ruins. While the most important public service of the Metropolitan Municipality would be the organization of Budapest transport, Budapest's transport is in ruins, chaos is everyday. It would be time for Mayor Gergely Christmas to hear his own voice: wake up! Budapest's transport is in ruins, because there is no reasonable, professional coordination of the developments and renovations implemented by the Municipality of Budapest. [[9.10]] At the same time, traffic is paralysed at very closely interlinked points in the city, causing huge disruptions. Budapest's transport is in ruins, because for the development carried out by the Government with its financial support by the Municipality of Budapest, let me just say the biggest ones, Lánchíd, Blaha Lujza tér, metro 3 refurbished, while the government gives significant money, but their implementation is delayed, delayed, expensive, and the Budapesters do not know when they can be used again. One thing is certain, if István Tarlós had remained the mayor, these work would have been done by now. And thirdly, Budapest's transport is in ruins, because the Mayor won't do what he promised. Perhaps there are some of you here who have participated in that bathrobe-towel performance, in the autumn of 19 when they went down to Metro 3 and promised the Budapest people that if Gergely Christmas became mayor, metro 3 would be air-conditioned immediately. The people of Budapest have been waiting three years for this promise to be fulfilled. So you don't do what you promised, but you do what you didn't say: you paralyze the city's traffic with bicycle lanes, where, say, 40 thousand to 1000 motorcyclists per day, and you close it, you take away almost the whole quay from Budapest, road users, car users. Once again, as long as it's up to us, there will be no traffic charges. The congestion charge is a bad solution, because it is not right to sabotage those living in the outer districts and surrounding cities, but we say that this is an affront to people who use a car to work, to work, to organise family life, to use services and to transport. Driving by car is not deviant, we disagree with the policy of car chase. And there won't be a congestion charge, either, because my time is running out for the international example you referred to, because it's not a European solution. The European Union has 27 capitals, and there is only one congestion charge. For some reason, in Warsaw, Vienna, Berlin, and I could list the capitals, along with us in 26 capitals, they think that the congestion fee is a bad solution. We disagree with him, we will prevent him; we will protect the people of Budapest and the people of the agglomeration from introducing a congestion charge. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Group of Dialogue, Ms Rebecca Szabó applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-28-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have seen that the government budget for 2023 is not only based on austerity, but it lacks a green view, it does not address environmental challenges at all. The Dialogue has therefore submitted various budget changes worth 306 billion forints, of which I would like to highlight only a few, and I would like to focus particularly on our large lakes and Lake Balaton. It is very important to mention that, since the government is doing its best not to have a Norwegian Fund again and that the Norwegian State cannot support civil society organisations in Hungary, I think that in return the Hungarian Government should allocate greater public resources to at least green civil society organisations, which undertake public tasks to prevent, eliminate or shape environmental damage, often engage in specific nature conservation activities, so it would be very important for these green civil society organisations to receive state aid through predictable tendering. One of our amendments serves this purpose. The other is the creation of a national animal protection fund. I've talked a lot about the bad situation of animal shelters, animal welfare civilians. They do not have sufficient public funding, including in the case of Dharma Lomenhely, so it is very important that this national animal protection fund is created and sufficient money is made. We have set 8 billion in the first round to not only provide money for the tasks of civil animal rights workers, but for example, for the renovation of the police facilities, the operation of animal welfare guards, and it would be very important to ensure the proper functioning and assistance of animal welfare authorities, because at present it is very poorly done. Energy efficiency is also very important. Of all the EU Member States, Hungary is making the most progress. You recently like to say that anyone who, say, deals with community transport or even with energy efficiency, is on the Brussels nut train. Well, I don't know, I think energy efficiency is a very important thing. Yes, it is the best energy we do not use, not because we are distressing ourselves, but because, for example, we are renovating buildings so that we do not heat the street. I think they should also use non-refundable funding for this. But perhaps what I would like to talk about the longest now is that the large lakes in Hungary are also in danger. We would like to have a reconstruction framework for these in the budget, and I'll tell you why. On the one hand, there is their investment in Lake Neusiedl, which has now been published in press reports that they might stop, which I would like very much to do, but unfortunately there will still be a lot to fix here, because there is currently a large area, and a port is being built next to a lake in which it is difficult to even bathe, because the Lake Fertő is quite shallow, as we know. Just a month ago, due to the low water level in the Fertőwidekút area, there was a ferry boat about 300 metres from the port, with 20 passengers on board, so I don't understand why a sailing port should be built here, and with this investment, the reeds, birds and the lake beach will be destroyed. Lake Venice also has a record low water level, as it was last year, but they didn't actually take any meaningful steps to save Lake Venice. There's practically a mass destruction of fish and reeds. The fact is that this is now the impact of the climate crisis and human overuse. Technically, about half of our surface waters are threatened with dehydration, and I think that in this situation the Orbán government should act, and that money should be spent so that Lake Venice does not completely dry out. We need to create wet habitats on the beach. And here's the Balaton, which you're in the process of cementing and exterminating the reeds. Yesterday, I had an interpellation to which Secretary of State Sándor Farkas read to me the law on the spatial planning plan and said that you were committed to protecting the shore of Lake Balaton. That sounds good, but what I don't understand is why with HUF 8.3 billion the key government investment, which is a huge hotel and apartments, by building all kinds of buildings, wants to destroy the high shore of Balatonaliga. So, specifically, he wants to destroy the very unical geological formation, which, by the way, provides the beautiful view and panorama of the eastern tip of Lake Balaton in the Balaton area. You want to destroy this, and you're gonna give me state money. So it's not true when they say they're doing everything they can to protect the Lake Balaton, because unfortunately that's not the case. And as we know, Old Lake Tata is also in danger, and there's a group of companies near Fidesz who want to build a big hotel. Fortunately, there will be a local referendum; I very much hope that the locals will reject this investment. Therefore, I think that it is very important for us, and the Dialogue will contact the people living next to the larger lakes, in the first place with the people living in the villages on the shore of Lake Balaton, and we will try to initiate a social dialogue with people about whether they support these gigantic investments that destroy the lakes. Thank you. [[Applause from the Dialogue and Jobbik benches.]]
u2022-06-28-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Before I give the floor to Secretary-General Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister, I would like to inform you that the debates on these amendments are taking place in the committees this week, and next week in the Committee on Budgets, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these issues are being strengthened there as well. Thank you very much. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for taking care of the protection of our environment, the protection of our created world. I believe that this is in the common interest of all of us. Therefore, the Hungarian government is extremely committed to this, and we have a number of plans in the area of climate protection and environmental protection, which we have already implemented and which are in the process. But what is very important is that the climate action plan is being implemented. This has a number of elements that affect sustainability. Obviously, the main objectives are to eliminate illegal waste dumps. We allow you to redeem bottles of glass and plastic as well as metal boxes. As of 1 July 2021, single-use plastics have been banned. After each newborn, ten trees are planted so that by 2030 we can reach 27 percent of the country's forested area. We have very important ideas to increase solar power capacity, solar power plant capacity. We want to multiply this by 2030, but we will achieve this much sooner. [[9.20]] The Green Bus programme is underway, where electric buses are placed on the market in cities above 25,000 people, and what is very important is that our country represents the sixth best value in terms of CO2 emissions per capita between the EU Member States. Of course, several topics have been mentioned here. Animal protection is very important to us, which is why we have adopted Europe's strictest animal protection law. Community transport has also been mentioned here. I think this is very important, and, of course, Community transport, including rail development, is a priority area, a priority for the government, and therefore we are constantly increasing the amount to be spent. Hungary's central budget is HUF 93 billion in 2018, HUF 130 billion in 2022 and HUF 181 billion in 2023 for the renovation and maintenance of the Hungarian railway network. The question of Lake Balaton has been discussed. We consider it very important that this is accessible by rail and also by buses. In this connection, we also launched a program for summer vacation. In this respect, the development of the bicycle road network is also ongoing, and, as I said yesterday, it is very good news that an important section of the bicycle road network between Budapest and Lake Balaton, the bicycle road network between Budapest and Etyek, has already been handed over. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Ministry of Technology and Industry will provide additional funding from next year's budget for, among other things, green economic tasks related to the energy and climate modernisation system, sustainability tasks and public utility services. The major sustainability-related appropriations of the 2023 budget bill include the support appropriations for sustainability tasks and utility services, HUF 25 billion for 104.9 million; the support appropriations for the energy and climate modernisation system were HUF 81 billion, the reimbursement of public passenger transport services by bus and coach for HUF 141 billion, and the reimbursement of public transport in suburban areas of HUF 20.2 billion. The LIFE programme and the Modernisation Fund are outstanding tools for implementing Hungary's climate policy efforts. The implementation of LIFE projects will contribute significantly to the environmental and nature protection objectives of both our country and the EU and its climate protection objectives. In 2023 we support LIFE's projects from direct EU development sources with a total of more than HUF 400 million. The objective of the Modernisation Fund is to modernise energy systems and increase energy efficiency. The funding of the Fund will allow projects such as investments facilitating the integration of electricity generation and use from weather-dependent renewable sources, improving energy efficiency, energy storage and modernisation of energy networks. Of course, EU funds are extremely important from the EU's 2021-27 cycle. Our plan is to spend more than 30% of the non-refundable part of the recovery plan on energy projects to improve energy efficiency. So it is in our common interest, and I think, for the whole of Hungary, to achieve these goals. We also ask for her support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-8	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Member István Szabadi has applied for a speech from the Group of our countries before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, In fact, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a budget can stay out of many things, as it depends on human factors, because the budget is put together by people, and the difference between thinking and it can mean a lot of things. I would like to draw attention to the problem that has been tenuously left out of the budget for years, and this is also the case now in the case of the bill on the central budget of 2023, and this is the question of the residual costs of appropriations managed by the chapter. The number of chapters managed by the government in 2021 was 261, which amounts to nearly 4,000 billion. In this case, it would also be important to examine whether the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance himself can regroup these residual amounts in a completely different direction, either by a pen or by a decision. When we talk about looking for the money coming from the Union to raise the teacher's wages, it is a bit amusing that although it is a very big problem that it does not come, and another issue, but until it does, it could be redistributed from these residual funds, that the three beats we heard from the Prime Minister yesterday, that ten to ten percent of teachers' wages are planned to increase at three paces, for example, this residual amount, which, according to the Treasury report last year, is more than 700 billion remnants, could be transferred to this, for example, and even more than ten percent at three paces. Why isn't this happening? I'd like to give you an extreme example of what the Treasury Department is actually spending this residual amount on. Based on publicly available data, one of the interesting examples of the use of the budget balance is the additional financing of the Budapest 4 metro line and the related investments, to which the government paid a total of HUF 38 billion from 2012 onwards, and, based on the last year's report of the State Treasury, the ordered remaining HUF 9.7 billion. On the basis of this report, published last week by the State Treasury last week, this HUF 9.7 billion was assessed on an immediate question where the reports were, last week, and I see that, for example, HUF 9.7 billion in this chapter has been spent on this cost until April in the last four months. So, project management and attorney fees and consultants have spent 9.8 billion of this chapter residue in the last four months. Why couldn't this be spent in this crisis, such as a teacher's wage increase or an increase in the wages of nurses and other technical staff working in the healthcare sector? We feel it is very right that doctors' wages rise so significantly at three paces, this was the minimum that had to be done, but the same should be done in the case of teachers. In our opinion, the government is well aware that these appropriations managed by the chapter can be saved. However, I would like to make sure that we no longer see in hindsight what these remains were spent on, what they were spent on by the government, but that they can also be planned in advance so that these remains can be spent in a more rational and priorities way, as according to the current report of the Hungarian Treasury, 729 billion operating revenues have been made in the savings fund, at least that is what I have seen. And I ask the government and the Minister of Finance not to wait for EU money in the event of an increase in teachers' wages, but to regroup from these remnants of money. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2022-06-28-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, will give the answer before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, His speech is quite special and unusual, because Members rarely deal with residual sources or involve it in financing daily political issues. So let me start with legislation first. [[9.30]] There are strict rules for residual clearance, which are laid down in a government decree, in particular the Government Decree of 368/2011 on the implementation of the Public Finance Act, Avr. , and the accounts for the budget balance for 2021 are set out in 1848/2021. [[CHAPTER XII 8.]] It's a government decision. This means that the residue generated by the chapter-management appropriations mentioned by you, which is not subject to commitment, must be paid into the savings fund's appropriations. That's Avr. 176. § 28 regulates and says that the Minister responsible for public finances has a government decision on the use of this. The head of the chapter shall state the purpose for which the free residue, i.e. the residue not subject to obligation, is intended to be used. To this end, 746 billion HUF was transferred into the savings fund from the 2021 residue, which will be accounted for in the 2022 accounts, and you can see what this was used for. Your discussion is very interesting, since you say that, first of all, I think you are confusing the residue that is burdened with the commitment and not burdened with it. It is the leftovers that we agreed to use, but the use will be effective after the payment, after the budget year, in 2022, or don't give, in 2023. Planning a steady wage increase on residual resources, I think, would be a serious technical and political mistake. Wages should only be designed for revenue, resources and to the detriment of which we can certainly collect in the budget. With the residue, we will never know how much the commitment will be, which must be carried forward, or the residual which is not covered by the commitment. I think that with the question of re-regulation of the remains, it is not possible to achieve political commitments as far-reaching as the teacher's wage increase. The budget law must state how much Parliament intends to spend on this in a given year, and the source of this should be provided by the revenue of that year. Honourable Congressman, In addition to the residual clearance, the 2023 budget clearly cannot contain the balance of 2022, as we have not yet completed the year, and I have told you about the residual of 2021 which government regulations, government decisions, are being used by the government. This was the case in the previous years, and it will continue in the future. I think it is worth considering what is in the 2023 budget. If I may, in these 10 seconds, I stress that the 2023 budget protects jobs, protects pensioners, protects families and protects the cost reduction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-12	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Imre Komjáthi of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, fellow Members, to congratulate, first of all, two other successfully elected politicians of the MSZP, László Vasvári, István Újpest and István Sári, representatives of the local government of Gyöngyös. Good work, good health [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I wish them further respectable service from the locals. But then I will get to the point: it swept through the media that it will be even more gigantic, Europe's biggest fireworks on 20 August in Budapest. The 24.hu reported that the three-day series celebrating the establishment of the state could take up to HUF 6.5 billion net, so that the price of the fireworks was not included, because they were looking for a organizer in a separate public procurement. According to Zoltán Guller, CEO of the Hungarian Tourism Agency, the largest light and fireworks in Europe will be planned, which will be seen on more than four kilometers of the Danube quay. The price can be measured as well: in the draft contract in the recently uploaded documents in the electronic procurement system, the National Communications Office calculates a net estimated price of HUF 1.3 billion. HVG writes that the fireworks itself cost at least 910 million in 2021, but it may have cost 1.2 billion forints, as the minimum and maximum of the contract was that of it. By comparison: In 2019 only, 212 million were spent on fireworks. In fact, a lot more than two years ago last year, eight times more, 40 thousand missiles were fired. I remember when I was young on television watching the traditional August 20 state-founding holidays, programs, the clean-up, the air parade, the flag show. I remember how impressed I was with the fighter planes that passed over Parliament and the colourful domes of paratroopers. I also remember when my children for the first time, for the first time in their lives, were able to watch the fireworks in Budapest live, and it was a huge experience for them. Therefore, I strongly stress that I do not want to take this experience away from any family, not one child, but I think that in the present situation it would be worth considering that we could celebrate the establishment of the state with only 212 million fireworks in a much more modest, only, quote sign. There's a war going on in the neighboring country, and there's a very different kind of rockets crossing the sky, not the sound of rockets celebrating, but death. In our country there is a crisis of livelihood and security of life, the relentlessly loosed prices, the raging inflation of families, pensioners, but in many cases working people, it is also a celebration when fresh vegetables, fruit and meat are on the table. On the 20th of August, the roaring of fireworks can suppress the sound of a growling stomach for a while, and its light can blur yellow checks. But then what? For lucky people and families who will surely come home from fireworks with a wonderful experience, this will be a great experience, it will be wonderful, but the whole country would be happier if we used this gigantic fireworks to save money for crisis management and help families in distress. During a crisis-free period, it may be easier to digest a billion-dollar fireworks, but in a serious life-security crisis, there is a better place for this huge amount. I think that more bread, less circuses, safe living, valuable pensions, work, bread and decent wages. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the lines of MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-06-28-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State, Deputy Minister.
u2022-06-28-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, That, if I understand your speech correctly, you have taken out one event, and you are virtually disapproval of the government's support for it, or that it provides such resources to organize it. In a broader context, I consider this part of the fact that your party and, more broadly, the left have always had a conflicting relationship with national holidays. They always had a concern about how to celebrate the 23rd of October, we mean the history of this, even 15th March and our founding of the state, the celebration of St. Stephen. So we can actually look at this as part of it. The government's goal is to celebrate the greats, the founding of the state, the 23rd of October, or the '48 heroes, on these national holidays, either during difficult periods or during sunny times. [[9.40]] The fireworks are one but very important element of this August 20 celebration, and they have a very serious tradition and are extremely popular. So if you take a decision on this matter beyond your hesitation, then stand up to the Hungarians and say that there should not be fireworks in this form. [[Imre Komjathi: No, we don't say that!]] I would ask you to consider that such fireworks, if we are to celebrate August 20, have a cost. If you're saying that there's something else to be spent on, that there's significant resources to be provided, I agree. But before I mention this, I would add that this is also part of the tourism strategy, where tourism is a driving sector in Hungary; not only because it strengthens the economy, it contributes to economic growth, but also because it creates and preserves jobs, and the fireworks play a role here, but also play a big, big role in strengthening the brand of the country. If you open the question of not spending on such events [[Imre Komjathi: Spend!]] or don't spend so much [[Imre Komjathi: That's right!]] Then where does it end? Then next time, it is suggested that there should be no Opera House renovation, stop the Liget investment. [[Imre Komjathi shakes his head.]] You're trying to deny it now, but you're proposing it. The Liget investment would have been hindered by you. Or it could be a next step on your part to stop the fast-track investments. So there's no telling where it ends when these things start. If we look at the areas in which resources are being allocated, we can say, together with fireworks, that we are increasing resources in the priority areas. Allow me to give you a few examples of your governance: we will provide protection from 224 billion to 1375 billion; for educational activities you often deal with this issue from 1444 billion to 2378 billion; for health costs from 1197 billion to 2669 billion; for cultural activities from 171 billion to 572 billion. I'm saying these amounts because, compared to this, the cost of fireworks is a small-scale thing compared to these surpluses. Social measures, you often raise this issue: in 2010, the government spent 325 billion on this, 964 billion in the budget submitted in 2023. These are significant increases. So we spend more on each area, and if we spend more on each priority area, it also means that we can celebrate our national holidays as well. By the way, if you're interested in matters of living, I'd like you to be aware of the price-stop decisions. [[Imre Komjathi's thumb is pointing up.]] Four types of price-stops have been introduced by this government, and we're keeping them up. It's just that while you're showing me this, [[He's pointing his thumb up.]] When they should have been publicly supported, they were not supported. They had a candidate for Prime Minister, and you started on his list. He said there's no stopping prices at the border, that's what he said. So the price stops when you needed them, you didn't support them. They support the global minimum tax, and they also support sanctions on the EU scene which pose a serious livelihood risk not only for the Hungarian people but also for the European people. So if you want to do something about the Hungarians' livelihood, I ask you to at least support these government measures. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Vajda laughs.]]
u2022-06-28-16	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Momentum Group, MEP Ferenc Gelencsér applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-17	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, I spoke about the tragic state of health, and today I would like to say a few words about the situation of the police while there are still police in our country, since in the first week of June, 299 policemen were discharged. The only solution to the situation can be immediate substantial wage increases for law enforcement workers. I was very pleased with Balázs Fürjes' speech yesterday, where he said that responsibility should not be blamed on others and blamed for our mistakes. I can only trust that Mr. Furjes has not been placed on the edge of the carpet because of true words leaving his mouth. For 12 years, you have claimed that every problem in this world is the result of a European capital. So, what's this all about? You've been ruling by two-thirds for 12 years, so technically, you can do anything. As a result, the failures of the last 12 years have been borne solely by you. Unfortunately, despite their possibilities, we have managed to take a few measures that would otherwise be useful to our nation. Do you know how much money a cop makes today? About 200,000 forints net. I spoke to a friend of mine yesterday, and I found out that a 21-year-old starting officer, along with adding that he was under 21 years old, so it was a complimentary measure, so he earns 237 thousand forints. 27,000 forints of this goes to the workers' hostel, because it is not easy to put aside rents with so much money, so that you can even live. He who had nothing said John Lazarus a few years ago said that he was worth so much. So you think the cops who don't make enough money to put me aside are worth nothing? Yesterday, I was browsing the statistics, and the salary of a junior Hungarian police officer is roughly EUR 635 gross. It is no wonder that you do not want to adopt the euro, because then it would be much easier to compare how much you pay for certain professions in different neighbouring countries. Do you know how much a beginner cop makes in Slovakia? About EUR 955 gross. Do you know how much a rookie cop makes in Romania? About 715 euros gross. Do you know how much a rookie cop makes in Croatia? About EUR 656 gross. Even in a country where there was a bloody war 21 years ago, there was a better financial appreciation for the officers of the Order. What have you guys been doing for 12 years, my fellow members of the government? How could it happen that after 18 years of EU membership, Hungarian police earn worse than their Romanian, Slovak or Croatian colleagues? In light of this, the poster campaign a few years ago is even more comical. Well, who would want to take the work of the Hungarians if it wasn't paid? It's not a job at all, it's a robot, though I know you like historical nostalgia. According to Sándor Pintér, the Hungarian economy works so well that the competitive sphere rushes skilled police officers, and therefore there are not enough policemen in the force. I see it a little differently. How much you have done for the police in recent years shows that, while in 2014, 3060 people have applied for deputy technical training, only 1715 in 2018 and 880 in 2019. I do not believe that this is due to the outstanding Hungarian economy, as these young people were not drawn from police personnel by the competition sphere. This has reduced the number of candidates, because today in Hungary the police are treated shamelessly, with those who risk their lives every day for this nation. Some recent measures have been taken by the Ministry of Interior to preserve the stock. This was the assigned half-year arms money, the 10 percent increase at the beginning of the year, but the value of which was quickly inflected due to the rising prices. Looking at the budget presented, there is not much chance that another wage increase will be decided in the near future. The Momentum budgetary amendment therefore proposes an immediate wage increase for law enforcement workers, because it is important to estimate those who take care of our safety. We are working for a more solidarityful, happier Hungary, so please support this amendment, because without police officers there is no order. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-06-28-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to the speaker's speech before the agenda will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'm very sorry that your own group leader didn't listen to this speech about the respect of the cops, because he was the one who said he didn't throw the cops, just dropped a smoke grenade behind the cops. Then it wasn't about order, it wasn't about respect for the police, it was about protecting the security of public areas, it was about provocation of the police, forcing some kind of police action against itself, pushing the boundaries of the legal order. When it's politically important to you, you don't care about order and not a single police officer. [[9.50]] Did they think about it when they're throwing cops? Now he's talking about honoring the police. All good people agree with that. When they were thrown smoke grenades at them, did you think that they should be given greater respect, greater respect, that they were the basis for real order in our country, and that everyone could feel safe? [[There are constant interruptions from the Momentum.]] When you're throwing smoke grenades at the police, is that what you're thinking, honourable Member? Or, in fact, neither one nor the other is authentic. When they think that their political interests dictate this, that's what they do when they dictate their political interests, that's what they do. As they play double-faced, double-faced, even in connection with EU grants: they come in here on Mondays and Tuesdays, every week they tell us why Hungarian EU funds no longer appear in Hungary, then they get on the plane, they go out to Brussels and tell them not to send a penny to Hungary because Hungary is not a rule of law, it is not a dictatorship. [[Sic!]] There's corruption everywhere. Then they get back on the plane again, Monday-Tuesday again, they come to Parliament again: well, why are those EU money not coming, they shed crocodile tears; they get on a plane again in the spirit of green thinking, they go to Brussels and demand once again to initiate an immediate procedure against Hungary, so that we don't get a penny. That's how you work with the police and Brussels. You can say that, and you can say the opposite. On the other hand, every Hungarian police officer is truly honored and respected, because the fact that the Hungarian people feel safer now is primarily due to their work, and the government has tried to appreciate it. Before 2010, they were used for political purposes; after 2010, you provoked the police first and foremost, you did not help them, but we really tried to give the police predictability and respect, financial respect, whether it was the introduction of the law enforcement administration, and there was a 35 percent increase; be it six months' arms money; or be it a 10 percent increase this year. Thanks to these, the number of crimes in Hungary has decreased from 428,000 in 2010 to 142 thousand, i.e. one third. This is also the reason why people's sense of security has also increased at the same time. At the beginning of the 2010s, when we started our government, 64 percent of people felt safe, now nearly 85 percent and 84.8 percent of Hungarians feel safe about themselves. This is also due to the successful work of the police and to the fact that police and police procedures cannot be mocked. You weren't sitting here, but your allies were sitting here when we adopted the new criminal code when we adopted the new procedural laws so that it wouldn't happen that the victim or policeman often have to explain in criminal proceedings why he acted. That's not the words you said at the time. This is where you say the Helsinki Committee, TASZ, rights offender and similar words. They never side with the police and the police, but they always seek and seek out how to attack the police in connection with police measures. Because before 2010, it was a world where people, when they defended themselves, their own property, often found themselves in a difficult situation. We've been trying to eliminate this world, and we've eliminated it over the years, so that anyone who lives fairly doesn't follow the law, so that he doesn't end up in a situation where he's the victim of a crime, and he ends up on the bench of the defendants, while he's actually the victim of a crime. Therefore, I would suggest to you that you really try to speak in the tone of respect of those police officers who, when I look at car thefts, the robberies, the number of home invasions, have done a job that is worthy of recognition, and we have tried to express this recognition either in the arms money or in the 10 percent or 35 percent wage increases, or in the previous 5 percent wage increases, so that they actually receive their income. But we didn't just do that, you know, if you've read up on these questions, whether they're in a service-house building program or something, and we've been trying to provide in-kind support to make police careers as predictable and perspective as possible. And for this special thanks to the Hungarian police, it is the Hungarian police who could have been listed by all the countries in the European Union, instead they defend the Hungarian southern border in the winter cold and summer heat, and prevent illegal migrants from entering Hungary in the order of hundreds of thousands. Why don't you thank the police for that and don't throw smoke grenades at them? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-20	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Mr Zoltán Sas has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, In the debates of the last few days, several of my fellow Members have indicated that it would be very good to develop a common national interest on important issues and on national issues. I can fully identify with that idea. I believe that, with regard to the operation of defence and military and civil national security services, this common national interest will also be achieved, since the protection of the country, the security of the country, is a national matter which must be supported, and this should not be a party policy issue. What is weak, however, is the issue of law enforcement, since the lack of a law enforcement stipend can cause serious problems. I would like to look for someone who is not faulty, guilty or responsible, but I would just like to point out that the law enforcement salary has been HUF 38 650 since 2008, i.e. 14 years unchanged. I've had the opportunity to serve my country as a soldier and a police officer, believe me, this is an extremely uplifting and honored task, but a difficult profession, with many resignations. I think it would be unfair to expect our police officers to give up their housing needs, to give up their idea of starting a family because their wages are low. The police will not give up on them, but will give up on their service, and we will come to the current culmination of the problem, as we will never be discharged by the police to an unprecedented extent, one of which is due to a low level of law enforcement salary, and the fact is that unfortunately very few people choose this career, which is also partly due to the low level of salaries. It is quite clear, fellow Members, that if water continues to flow from a glass and the droplets are dripd with a pipette on the top, sooner or later this glass will be empty. If the police profession is empty, the police will be unable to carry out their statutory duties, with very serious consequences. Police are one of the pillars of the state's operation. If the police can't operate, it will also significantly affect the operation of the state and make it worse. At the same time, it will be a very important problem that, if there are not enough policemen, who will guarantee the achievement of the overall social interest in public security? Another reason for disarming police officers is the difficult service conditions. What would I like to talk about here? About the service at the southern border. In recent times, we have seen the number of irregular migrants constantly increasing, organised, grouped, armed and often armed, trying to cross the border section of Hungary, and unfortunately we also have to say that violence against Hungarian border guards has occurred almost daily in the past. I think it's an intolerable condition. Unfortunately, the second front, the Eastern front, has also been opened in recent years, as the unfortunate consequence of the Russian-Ukrainian war is that the provision of the eastern border section has become an additional task, as well as the need to contribute to the care of an incredibly large number of war refugees, which leads to additional service tasks. If this is coupled with extremely low wages, then perhaps we can see why there is such a high number of outliers. Well, what's the solution, what's the answer to this problem? We have proposed earlier, not only us, but also several opposition parties, and I believe that there are fellow Members sitting in the pro-government benches who agree that police pay should be increased. On the other hand, Jobbik has previously proposed the creation of an independent border guard, which I would like to say to you in such a way as to call it anything, it does not need to be called a border guard, it does not need to be independent, so it does not need to have an independent management, it can be under the control of the Minister of Interior or even the national police commissioner, but there must be an organisation that does nothing but protect and protect the Hungarian borders 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. If this is done by creating the border protection centuries again, then we will have an organization that, because of its training and equipment, is capable and capable of cementing the safety of the Hungarian borders in the long term, for decades. The only question remains that there is an intention to raise the law enforcement stipend, raise police salaries, have the intention to create a modern and modern border protection, create an independent border guard, because if there is, then it is a national minimum interest that I think should be supported regardless of party standing, but I will certainly support it myself. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[10.00]]
u2022-06-28-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. In response to the statement by the Member before the agenda, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister, Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, From the speeches before the agenda, I see such character-building speeches from parts of the left, the Dialogue and the LMP are competing to see who is greener. You are trying to find your way back to the 2010 better direction, which was pro-police, but today Jobbik is not at all about what it was ten years ago. You are now a branch of Ferenc Gyurcsány, a fascist branch of the left, just as the other parties have become one department. However, those goals are noble, in fact, to ensure order in the country and to honor the police. Just, honourable Member, who cannot ensure order at their party events, and there must be the most fear, say, of what happens to a young woman, where the party president reports the vice-president of the party, and then it turns out that he does not report it, but it was a kind of an instigation of how they treat public funds in-house. So if they can't keep order in the house, it's a little difficult to show outwards that you have security, or that order is a fundamental value, because we see that safety is neither in pig slaughter nor in order to talk about public money management. But we've been trying to strengthen law enforcement, which is why we've doubled our resources for law enforcement since we've been in government. This was a sum of around HUF 449 billion when we took over the government, and now it is about HUF 1000 billion that we use for law enforcement. I would like to correct one thing that was in the previous speech and in your speech. You really expected it as if you were rooting for it, and I felt from your words that when the crisis caused by the coronal virus expires and the moratorium expires, people from the police and hospitals will resign in bulk. You guys have had a major meltdown. Then the Hungarian people could relax. You, on the other hand, are very disappointed that, in the police department, the fluctuations that take place after a period of more than six months' notice, which, let's face it, in almost every organisation, is that if we add all the moratorium periods together for months, half a year or longer before that, then 1 percent is the change in the number of employees, it is not out of the question. You were talking about a huge scale. You've been expecting this, we know that, we've seen this, and they've built it in their own press, that there's going to be a very large wave of resignations here, but thank God, that's not happening. This may be disappointing for you, but it is a relief for the Hungarian people, because the fact that here it was a 50 percent wage increase is basically a 50 percent wage increase, if I add up the different wage increases, that there was a six-month cash payment, that is a security for many people. If we look at the police's number, we're talking about a raise of 3174. So you may be talking about a few hundred people resigning at the end of the resignation moratorium, but we can actually talk about a surplus of thousands in recent years, and, as I said, not too much of a turnover for any organisation of this scale, for tens of thousands of organisations you have said in order of magnitude, honourable Member. You know that in addition, we have completed the benefits system in recent years, and in the new system of promotion and salary, it is important that we have been able to get performance benefits since 2016 with a budget of HUF 12 billion for the better performing police officers. There is also a new housing support system, with a budget of HUF 2.8 billion a year. Support is also available for house purchase, with a maximum amount of HUF 20 million. It can also be used for house upgrades, and this is up to HUF 5 million. These grants may also be used for credit redemption. So it is indeed housing that is an important issue for the police, and it has also been included in the objectives supported by the state, of course. It's a matter of the southern border. You are right, honourable Member, that, in the long term, it cannot be maintained that those who are concerned only with border surveillance will be deprived of this capacity by the police in the long term. We could not know exactly when the migration crisis broke out, how long this would take, but now we can see that this is going to take a long time, and we can also see that every number this year is planning this, and that an increasing number of irregular migrants will appear, a growing trend that is visible year after year and month after month. In addition, the Ukrainian-Russian war clearly amplifies this issue. So, as was said here in Parliament yesterday, by the Prime Minister, a permanent force in the police force that deals only and exclusively with the protection of the southern border will be needed. We cannot count on any particular European help in this, so we will also rely on ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, From the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-25	Mr. President. Dear House, In the last few weeks, I have talked a lot with the citizens of Kőbánya and Kispest, and that is okay, as it is also my job as an individual Member of Parliament. But I would also suggest to the members of the government and to the representatives of the government that they should also talk to their own voters, the Hungarian citizens. Because, you know, the pensioner in New Mountain, the college student in Practitioner Street, the Hunyadi Street family mother, the worker in the Pongrácstelep, or the educator in Attila József Street, what are you talking about? What do they care about? What are they talking about? How expensive it is to buy in the store, how much bread costs, how much tomatoes cost, how much cheese costs. It's how much gas can be filled at the gas station. The fact that you can travel at the current exchange rate of the euro where you usually go. That they would have the money to visit his granddaughter in England. They're talking about the low wage, the low pension, the rise of the Prime Minister's salary, not theirs. [[Intruder from the ranks of Fidesz: yours, too!]] That is what the people, my fellow Members, are talking about, which is what Hungarian citizens are interested in today. And what interests the government and the government side? Well, it's worth looking at this week's Parliamentary agenda. The government is interested in the county of the Archbishop. I have nothing against the fact that if you play such games among yourselves, there is no problem, you like to call each other Mr. Excellency. I see, some people have their vanity fanned by it. There would be nothing wrong with solving the country's problems while dealing with inflation. And do you know what your saying about inflation is? Well, it's because of the war, inflation is not the Hungarian government's fault. Really? And then tell me why it is that the forint weakens most of the regional currencies. Why is it that, for example, the price of bread has risen in Hungary in the last year to the highest of all the EU Member States, in a country that is not otherwise dependent on wheat imports, despite all your efforts. So what I have to tell you is that it's a lie when you say that this is only inflation because of the war. There is inflation because of you, inflation is due to the Orbán government. There is inflation because they are unable to manage economic processes. They were very proud of their economic performance at a time when all of Europe was going well, and we were still behind in comparison with Romania, for example, but now, when there is trouble, it turns out that they are unable to control the country, to resolve this kind of crisis, they are unable to solve the real problems of people. Of course, you can play the county and the Archbishop, if it amuses you, but it doesn't make bread cheaper, there won't be any more pensions and there won't be any more pay. Of course, you can touch the electoral rules. It may be possible to play a little more with the date of the municipal elections or with the parliamentary house, in order to make the opposition less likely to run for the elections, or to give its opinion here in Parliament, but that does not mean that there will be less petrol stations where there is a shortage of petrol, that there will be no crystal sugar in the shops. It is possible to talk about, although this is already highly life-threatening, what you are doing now is opening another circle in the fight against freedom against the European Union. They want to turn European integration back to the time of the European Economic Community by virtually fifty years, and there is no doubt that with the intention of preparing the conditions for the Hungarian Union's exit in order to create a basis for this. I'll give you another example of what's important to you. We have amended a series of laws in order to finally become the political director of the Hungarian government. Well, if there was something missing in these times with the 53 secretary of state and 13 secretary of public administration, it was just a political director. But, no doubt, he's also serving his money. You've succeeded, haven't you, by saying that the war on Putin is putting all of Europe at risk, the war on Putin. So the Ukrainians bombed President Putin in the Kremlin, not the Russians bombing Ukrainian housing, cities and hospitals under the leadership of President Putin. [[10.10]] It's cynicism of a degree that really needed a special political director, because, by the way, it probably wouldn't have fit the faces of most of your ministers and ministers. You went to the moon after the election, as announced, and have not come back since. I think it's time for them to land on Earth and start dealing with people's real problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-28-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, contact with voters. If we hadn't been in contact with the electorate, if we hadn't been in regular dialogue with them, we wouldn't have achieved the election result that we had achieved on 3 April. [[Lajos Kósa: And Sunday.]] And this Sunday; this Sunday there were mid-term elections in Hungary, in many parts of the country, and Fidesz, the governing parties, won a great, great victory. Mr Komjathi congratulated two elected left-wing representatives. The reason I don't do it is to congratulate them one by one because they won 17 Fidesz candidates in 17 places. 17 places. It's overwhelming results, overwhelming support. Thank you for the voter's trust. All pro-government politicians will try to deserve this. For the left-wing parties, for you, this is a warning if you do not understand the message of the April election. If they do not side with the Hungarians on matters of peace, security and livelihood, they can expect a similar failure in the future. It's not too late to change. When I listen to your speeches, they paint a picture of a country where destruction, poverty and decline prevail. Because of the epidemic and the war, it is true that we are living in a difficult time, but we can also say that the Hungarian economy is stable. Allow me to support all of this with a few facts. In the second quarter, 4 million 693 thousand people worked in Hungary, which means that we are at a record level since the regime change. According to Eurostat, unemployment in Hungary is the sixth lowest across the European Union. The average gross earnings in Hungary rose by 15 percent in a year, despite the epidemic and the war situation. So to an extent beyond inflation. In 2021 and 2022, the minimum wage grew the most. The minimum wage has nearly tripled for your period. By the way, the number of people living on the minimum wage is decreasing by 35 percent between 2017 and 2020. Now on the issue of inflation: you don't really believe that while there is inflation in Hungary, there is nothing else, and the war has nothing to do with it. You don't mean that. If you hadn't done it, I don't know if you've done it, or if you're trying to mislead the public, please take a look at the inflation figures in Europe. There are countries where inflation is 20 percent and there is a clear correlation between how close individual countries are to the war conflict zone. So I ask that at least the fundamental link that war is the root cause and the rise in energy prices is the fundamental cause of inflation, war inflation, at least don't deny it. What measures the government is taking to ensure that if you talk to citizens, you can tell them that we've put in four price stops. For example, if there were no petrol stop, Hungarians would pay an average of HUF 21,000 more for fuel per month. Gas is now the cheapest in Hungary all over Europe. We're also maintaining the reduction of the rent. If we didn't, a Hungarian household would have an average fee of 4.5 times higher. The next time you see your constituents, please tell me this, and tell me that you did not support this. Gas prices are now the lowest in Hungary and electricity is the second lowest in the European Union. The interest rate stop is also an important measure to say one more. With its help we protect Hungarian families from an average of 11 thousand HUF. You mentioned wages. If you look at this year alone: we have rebuilt the 13th month pension, in January there has been a wage increase in the social sector, in the cultural sector, higher wages for university teachers, teachers and kindergarten teachers, higher wages for nurses in January, and the most powerful medical wage increase programme has been continued. Honourable Congressman, We are not saying that these increases are sufficient, that further increases are needed. We'll make sure that happens as soon as possible. But there is a fundamental condition for this, and this is peace. We can move to new economic levels if the clouds of war disappear from the sky of Europe. If there is peace, then there will be a way to break down war inflation, then there will also be a way to stop the rise in energy prices. So, if you would like to do something for the Hungarians' livelihood, not only in words, you can join the peace efforts, and you can even support the government in this, unlike their custom. For example, do not want to send weapons or soldiers, support us with negative sanctions, and do not encourage bureaucrats in Brussels to hold back EU funds that are otherwise due to us. [[Gergely Harvester: Don't steal it!]] If they're gonna take these, we're gonna be inside. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-28	Thank you very much. Dear House, fellow Members, Mr István Simicskó, Head of the Group of the KDNP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, 26 days have passed since World War II in peace. Unfortunately, it's... [[Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] It's been 26 days in peace, I'll confirm, follow up on that. [[Lajos Kósa: All over the world?]] This is a sad fact, because wars are constantly raging in the world, and now here in our neighbourhood again. [[To Lajos Kósa:]] All over the world, yes, but you can still ask me. [[Defiance.]] Well, here we go.
u2022-06-28-30	Congressman Kósa, please speak up, and I will give you your word.
u2022-06-28-31	So, so shocking, but these are facts. And there's a war going on in our neighborhood right now. In this case, it is worth considering and enumerating the risks to safety, so that we can provide the right answers to this. According to the literature, safety threats and threats are distinguished according to origin, so that natural or artificial, distinguish by size, scope and intensity, low or high intensity, high intensity. Here, I would point out two things when interpreting origin: challenges of natural origin, threats such as floods, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions are the greatest threat. I must now refer to the dangers of artificial origin and reduce my speech, which is war, terrorism and migration. The fact is that technology has now reached such a level of development that certain powers can even trigger phenomena of natural origin with artificial intervention. But most importantly, the question of war, terrorism and migration is that Europe, the European Union, must find appropriate answers and build defence mechanisms. It is certain that the old continent once had better times, and we all know that we see that there have been serious problems in recent years, especially in 2015 as a result of mass illegal migration, the European Union has shown its inability to defend its external borders. Hungary has set an example for Europe and for the world. There is a lack of a much mentioned European defence capability system and a lack of a European defence system. They talk a lot about it, but concrete steps are not very important, and it has not been able to stop not only migration, but it has not been able to prevent more and more wars in Europe following the end of the Cold War. I would refer to the war in Yugoslavia, the horrors, the destructions of the brother war, and, well, well, the current Russian-Ukrainian war since February 24th, which has many victims and refugees. Therefore, European civilisation is facing clearly visible problems. Obviously, we know that the development stage of civilizations shows a period of decline, after a development there is a decline at the summit; there are many reasons for this. As a Christian Democrat politician, let me say that basically I see one of the main causes of great troubles in spirituality, in the absence of a significant part of the European Union and its political leaders losing their faith, losing and denying their Christian faith and walking the path of self-destruction. [[10.20]] If we are active members of such a community, who have constantly set an example not only in Christianity, not only in raising awareness, but also in protecting and even protecting the Schengen borders and the external borders of Europe, this is a very important responsibility for Hungary and the Hungarian government, because in the last seven years, we have done everything in our power to ensure that Hungarian citizens can live safely and through it Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, However, migration is once again showing a growing trend, it is clearly visible, and it is well shown by numbers. The economic consequences of the Russian-Ukrainian war have already been felt. Among other things, there may be a famine in Africa due to the lack of food supplies that can once again boost mass migration and illegal migration. So it is necessary to prepare for this, to prepare for the protection of the European Union, if it is to defend itself at all. It is certain that Hungary must maintain and even strengthen border police, border surveillance and border protection. We will fully support this in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-28-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, responds to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Let us look at the figures why we really need to think in this direction and take steps, which Mr. Group Leader has also said. In 2020, 46,000 illegal migrants tried to cross the Hungarian southern border, but last year they tried 122 thousand against 46,000. Last year, in 2020, 455 smugglers were captured by the Hungarian police, but last year, not 455, but 1277. This is a clear increase from the year before last year to last year. Let's look at the time-related change from last year to this year: between January 1st and June 27th last year, 45 000 people were trying to cross the southern Hungarian border illegally, whereas now 106 000 people are trying to cross the southern Hungarian border. Last year, in the first nearly six months of the year, 408 smugglers were captured by Hungarian police; now, not 408 but 790. So in every number, we see that from last year to last year, there is a large increase of two and a half times, and this year there is at least one double increase, so that we can see a growth trend within the year, because in the first months of the year, the number of illegal attempts to cross the border weekly was still around 3,000, and this 3,000 has now risen to 6500 by summer. So there is also an increase within the year, with a doubling already in the year, it seems that it will definitely happen. And not only the numbers are rising, but the methods of smugglers are becoming more aggressive, and obviously the number of violent crimes and acts are also increasing from the increasing number of illegal border crossings. When you look at the number of cases where the fence has been damaged, for example, by illegal border crossings, the technical means of the temporary border lock, you see 21 of these major damage. Some of these are also videos on the government's side. In 164 cases, the police were attacked by illegal migrants and smugglers, and 69 were attacked by their vehicles, so they broke parts of them, smashed the windshield. You can see that they're increasingly aggressive, not just trying to dodge the police, or when they're not there, they're trying to cross the border, they're trying to attack the police, they're trying to take a minivan and they can't stop at the border until a cop stands in front of them, and they're just trying to stop. So illegal border crossings are getting more aggressive with the police. The government also asked the vigilantes for help earlier, and we gave them HUF 371 million in support to help the police work there. We also provided 170 million forints of support to the field guard services. The legal environment is also suitable for the prosecution to bring the defendant to justice within eight days if he is caught in an act of unlawful interference. At the same time, these figures show that we have an increasing number here. The work is not reduced, the burden is not reduced, the task is not reduced, but the task is increasing as compared to previous years. And we can also see that police officers are in addition to carrying out law enforcement tasks throughout the country, they are also at the southern border, with an increasing number of people to act against, and they are also at the eastern border, at the Ukrainian-Hungarian border, where the war is causing them to be. That is why the government, which Prime Minister also spoke about yesterday in the hour of immediate questioning, decided that it would be necessary here to create an independent force to protect the border, which does not take the police away from the other services, but only to protect the southern border. This should not be outside the police framework, because it would only multiply control, economic and other backup organisations, but it would, as an independent department, with specific requirements, under special conditions, directly protect the southern border. This helps the police to go back to the Hungarian settlements from here and contribute to the maintenance of public safety, which has been effectively carried out in recent years, since the number of crimes committed has decreased by a third. Time is pressing for us, because we can see from these figures and the food price explosions in the poorest countries, whether in Africa or in the Middle East, that by autumn we must prepare for a wave even bigger than summer. Therefore, by autumn, the individual border protection unit, whether called border hunters or otherwise, will have to stand up, who will be able to help us protect the Hungarian external border. Hungary spent about 600 billion forints on protecting the external border; we did not even receive 1.5 percent of this from EU funds. So Hungary protects not only itself, but also the European Union [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Compared to this, the EU supports everyone, if necessary, to facilitate migration, and to symbolically support us, Hungarians, in order to protect the external border. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-28-34	Thank you very much. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Lajos Kósa has applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-35	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Today is the beginning of the NATO summit in Madrid, which NATO called for the Russian-Ukrainian war. It is quite obvious that war will be the main issue at the summit. It is therefore right to record in the Hungarian Parliament the position of the Fidesz fraction on the war. We are on the side of peace. Our firm position is that we do not send weapons to this war, we do not send soldiers, we do all humanitarian tasks, we do more than that, we help those fleeing Ukraine. Today, the country's largest ever humanitarian aid action is ongoing in Hungary. Thousands of people arrive from Ukraine every day, really fleeing the war. We believe that any support for war with weapons, soldiers, logistics, and the transfer of information will only result in an increase in the number of victims, but it does not seem to help to end the war. Therefore, we believe that whoever provides weapons, soldiers, logistics, information, and other help is unfortunately willful, but helps to carry on the war, so whatever he thinks of himself is on the side of war. On the other hand, I would like to fix: we want an immediate ceasefire, immediate peace talks and immediate peace, and we are doing everything we can at all international forums to help this process. We note that the opposition's position differs from that. On several occasions, they said that weapons, logistics, soldiers should be sent to the war, either in agreement with NATO, or regardless of NATO; see: the Vice President-President Jobbik said that she had failed to find that there was a contract military in Hungary, so that she would not send our sons, that there were contract soldiers, even though these soldiers were born by mothers. So this is the most facial, irresponsible, ignominious statement ever made by opposition politicians during the war. But we do not agree with the opposition, we do not agree that the opposition will provide weapons, ammunition and other military assistance in this war, which, by the way, will bring Hungary and the Hungarian people closer to this war. At the NATO summit, it will also be clear that at the famous NATO summit in Wales in 2014, NATO has very strongly drawn the attention of the Member States to achieving a military budget of 2 per cent of GDP. At that time Hungary stood at 1.1 percent. [[10.30]] I would add that even this was based on fraud. You remember the unforgettable words of Ferenc Gyurcsány: hundreds of tricks you don't need to know about. Hungary's military expenditures were only put up above 1 percent in proportion to GDP, where pension payments to retired soldiers were calculated; I do not have to say that this means nothing in strengthening defence capabilities. Meanwhile, the Hungarian artillery was decommissioned, so all self-propelled cannons, taracks, everything was sold. They disarmed our armored capabilities, disarmed all the armored men, gave our armored transport war vehicles to Iraq and the T72s. So, in fact, they weakened the defence capabilities of the Hungarian army to such an extent that, compared to that, the Trianon Peace Dictate was an armistice program in the literal sense, look at the statistics, and they said that the Hungarian ability to defend in a war emergency will be based on the Hungarian voluntary forces. There were 17 of them, 17 of them in 2010. Compared to this, Hungary is proud to announce that next year we will reach the military budget of 2% of GDP. We live in a dangerous age, so just a piece of advice for the end. There are a lot of fake news, a lot of fake calls last time against fake-Geri Klicko on both sides of the lines, a good advice to make one of the 642 consultants a pre-caller so that the Mayor of the Hungarian capital will not be so embarrassed that he realizes it hours later [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That he was talking to a fake man, because unfortunately, it's embarrassing the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-28-36	On behalf of the Government, Mr Lajos Kósa, State Secretary Tamás Vargha, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think it is not unnecessary to repeat the very important sentence that Mr President said at the beginning of his speech that we, Hungary, are on the side of peace, peace and security are the most important to us, because there is a war going on next door, and we do not see the end of this war and the end of it, and this war is also a constant threat to Hungary. We have entered and are in not only an era of epidemics and not only uncertainty, but also of war threats. The Hungarian people have made a clear decision on what they expect of Hungary's leaders, what they expect of the Hungarian government. They expect to protect Hungarian people and protect Hungary against these dangers. We are committed to staying out of this war, wanting to stay out of it, and we will stay out of it, and we will give answers to the economic crisis and war inflation that will unfold that will enable us to preserve the results achieved so far, and this very simple response to war inflation and the economic crisis: peace. At the same time, we are, of course, in solidarity with Ukraine, with the Ukrainian people, and we have given all the help we have already given, and we will give it to refugees arriving in our country. We also provide humanitarian aid to the people left in Ukraine, Transcarpathia, Ukraine and Transcarpathia. In addition to the threat of war inflation and economic crisis, not only Hungary but also Europe as a whole, new ideas of sanctions are emerging. We have supported and agreed with the sanctions that the European Union has imposed against Russia, but we see that these sanctions have not hit Russia, the target, but not Hungary, but, more importantly, Europe as a whole. So we do not need new sanctions, we need new sanctions, we need another one of Europe with which it puts itself in a more difficult position, we need peace, and that is why we have said yes to Ukraine's membership in the EU, and we have said yes to peace and no to further sanctions. In this era, in the era of dangers, we cannot talk about Hungary's security without talking about the strong Hungarian army. Our goals remain unchanged: we are committed to the development and modernisation of the defence, and indeed, we will achieve a certain 2% in the budget for the years to come. This was originally planned for 2024. We served with Minister István Simicskó in the Ministry of Defence when we started that military development program. We also thank Minister for his work, as a result of which we are here today, and we would, of course, not only want to continue this programme, but we will also continue it, and this budget for next year, together with the Defence Fund, will give us all the opportunity. Of course, NATO is one of the cornerstones of our security, but we must not forget that NATO cooperation is a condition of national self-force. Strong NATO exists only if it is made up of strong Member States. Mr President, Member of the Council said that between 2002 and 2010, certain capabilities mentioned by the Member had been removed. Let us be even more open, not only have these abilities been decommissioned and eliminated, but also the tools that gave and reported the abilities, have been misplaced by socialist governments. As a result of our developments, a defence system, a defence force, will be created that will be able to protect Hungary and guarantee the security of Hungary even in a time of danger before us, since Hungary is the first, the peace and security of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-28-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the speeches before the agenda. There will be debates now. Dear Parliament, The XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly follows in a row. Act 10/2014 amending and amending certain related laws, as well as Articles 10/2014 and 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure on certain house rules. [[ANNEX II 24.]] Joint general debate on the proposal for a decision amending the decision until closure. I declare that the proposals will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear House, Presentations submitted by representatives of Máté Kocsis, István Simicskó, Róbert Zsigó, Gabriella Selmeczi, Imre Vejkey, János Hargitai and Lőrinc Nacsa T/369, and H/368. The IT network of the House is accessible to all of us. The authors indicated that two speakers had presented the opening statement. First, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, the rapporteur on the agenda, the group leader of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, To introduce our presentation, let me begin by saying, as I am sure you know, that there is a war going on in the neighbouring country, and the effects of this war, as you know, should not be specified, but it is still necessary to mention the introduction of this proposal. These effects are those that have caused war inflation, these effects that have brought Europe into an energy crisis, perhaps the whole world, but certainly Europe, and these effects are those from which we need to protect the everyday lives of Hungarian people, the costs of households and the security of the country. [[10.40]] For this reason, the Hungarian government has set up a Defence Fund and a Rezségvédelmi Fund, in which, in many cases, it taxes the extra profit obtained from the war, and uses the proceeds from it for the aforementioned purposes. We can therefore say that, in fact, this struggle, this energy, this war inflation, including the poorly defined Brussels sanctions policy, has created a situation in which we are currently struggling to defend our achievements. Now, it also follows that this new type of burden should be shared by everyone who can. And according to our logic, according to the logic of the proposal with my fellow authors, parties and factions must also be involved in bearing burdens. This also means that, as has already been done during the coronal virus epidemic, we are now giving up certain amounts, which, by the way, serve the function of the fractions. This is also necessary, because if I put the whole thing I have said in parentheses, and the world around us would be just as it used to be, there would still be an unfair situation, which is due to the fact that if the Hungarian Parliament continued to operate in addition to the current rules, the left and the right would cost 3-3 billion forints more. Of course, this is also true of the fact that the basic salaries of its representatives, which are always the basis for the calculation of the group subsidies, are tied to the Hungarian average wage. By the way, we did the right thing. If Hungarians earn better, their representatives can earn better, if Hungarians can earn worse, then their representatives will have to earn worse. We cry together, we laugh together, this calculation model determines the basis for group support and this principle. It is also necessary to mention here that the bill before us is the 3 billion surplus on the left, and 3 billion surplus on the right is treating the problem as taking 3 billion away from left parties and forints 2 billion away from the right-wing or governing parties. This means that if the current rules were to change, it would cost more of the functioning of the parliamentary factions, and we can easily see that this is not right. Obviously, they're going to ask why in such a proportion. There are two answers to this; one is that support for factions or the distribution of parliamentary aid must rest on the will to vote. And I'm not saying this at the forefront, but math is math: left-wing parties lost 800 000 voters in four years, so we can't accept as the right principle that anyone who loses 800 000 voters will cost more by HUF 3 billion. There are fewer of them, and they've lost a vote. I could also say that if there are fewer buyers for their product, there is less revenue, and I think that's fair. What's been going on? So far, it has been that one opposition representative has cost 1.5-1.6 times more than one pro-government representative on group subsidies. This does not change after the proposal, i.e. the fact that more forints are still added to opposition representatives per person, but the proportions are significantly changing and falling. So it is not that we have reason to accept the proposals that are worthy of appreciation, but they accept this as if it were a worthy proposal when we maintained a system of support for opposition representatives exceeding the amount of subsidies for pro-government representatives. Where else did the amount of support for the factions come apart from what I just said, that the Hungarian average wage has been constantly increasing, and in parallel, the subsidies? It was there that the opposition parties, the single list on the left, the Gyurcsány list, formed six factions in Parliament, if you will. This thing smells like a little abuse of rights. Although they said that in the campaign, it is easy to see that, and there is no need to be politically informed that four of the six left parties would not have made it to the National Assembly. If we look at the electoral will, our knowledge of the present and the election at the moment is known only the Democratic Coalition and the Momentum would have an independent parliamentary faction. Compared to this, twice as many parties wish to benefit from this parliamentary mandate, and do so disproportionately. Consequently, we proposed to include the principle in the way of calculation, which I referred to earlier, because we believe it is right that parties should also take part in this burden. So let me start by talking about the operating framework. The operational framework will be reduced for all parliamentary factions. If we were to keep the current rules, this would be the largest amount that would rise, but now all fractions will be reduced. The method of calculating the subsidies proposed by us, which can be read in the material, will better reflect the form of participation in the election. We are thinking here that the factions would no longer receive special support, but only the common list would otherwise receive the increased amount of the calculation basis of the previous operating framework, so not by faction, but by list, simply because the voters did not have the opportunity to vote for parties. As Fidesz and KDNP started on a common list, voters had no way to measure Fidesz and KDNP separately. [[Gergely Harvesto: I'd like to see it sometime.]] So the left-wing parties started on a common list. They didn't have a chance to tell the voters what they thought of them separately. Therefore, the basis for calculating the operational framework for both us and for the joint list of oppositions, as mentioned above, will be changed. We believe that the will of the electorate will is better, because it was clearly the purpose of obtaining the mandate of the common list to create the electoral will rather than some factions. So the voters didn't vote for group formation, they voted for a list that was placed on the menu, on the electoral menu. So the proposal also amends the rules on the staff base of the political groups in accordance with the above principles. In the future, in the case of parties on the common list, the list should be grouped into the appropriate band on the basis of the number of mandates obtained together on the list, and the number of employees corresponding to it shall be allocated to the fractions of each party in proportion to their mandate, while respecting the principle of proportionality. Other amendments, which are part of the proposal here: one of these has been included in the legislative package by opposition, and this is the procedure already introduced at the time, which is already known from the time, that parliamentary groups may waive some of their operating conditions for the benefit of their own party. This has been introduced once in connection with the withdrawal during the coronal virus epidemic, but only temporarily. In view of the fact that political costs are difficult to divide between factions and parties, let us introduce this for the future. It was an opposition proposal, but for our part it was included in the bill because we agree with it. We are also proposing to amend the house rules, creating the possibility of joining the Group between the fractions of the parties that started on the common electoral list. If, in this case, voters had the opportunity to vote for a list, it is right to open it, because they did not have the opportunity to vote for factions, and therefore this kind of obligation is called an atypical way of saying that it does not exist. [[10.50]] The basis of democratic legitimacy is not the faction, but the votes cast on the party list or on the party candidates, the faction is the result of everything. We therefore believe that we need to go back to democratic legitimacy, the votes cast, and we think that this is the only way that the electoral will can be understood, and that this is the only way to translate the electorate's intentions into the day-to-day working of the factions, Parliament and the support of the factions. In other words, we recommend opening up the possibility of free fraction selection within the lists. The Constitutional Court has previously pointed out what I have just mentioned as a guiding principle, and we therefore consider the principle to be correct. So the vote cast on the candidate of the party or on the joint candidate is the basis of legitimacy, and therefore, because it was only possible to vote for a list, we also ask for its support. Overall, I trust that the debate on political costs, which is policy on politics, is taking place in an appropriate manner, and I ask you to support our proposal, and I ask you that, after the adoption of this proposal, we take part in the common burden that we need to do in order to preserve the Rezségvédelmi and Defence Fund, to ensure the safety of Hungarian people and to reduce the burden on Hungarian people. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to the other representative of the authors, Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to deal with the part of the proposal concerning Members of Parliament as the President of the Committee on immunity, with issues that cut into the profile of the Committee on immunity, these changes in the rules on conflicts of interest and on the return of property. Why are we touching these rules of the parliamentary law? The general justification also gives a grip on this, saying that the aim of the proposal is to further strengthen the integration of the European Union by standardising the rules on the declaration of assets. I have met several Members of the European Parliament from Western Europe, and I have always experienced the incomprehensible way they regulate Hungarian procedures. [[Sic!]] And in spite of my argument that the Hungarian procedure is more diverse, more detailed, we need much more things, if you like it, to admit it, to make it public than what is the practice in the European Parliament, yet our procedure has generally caused incomprehensible; therefore, as an author, we propose that we bow down to the high conditions of the rule of law dictated by the European Union Parliament, then we should also standardise this rule system in the way that they do in the European Parliament, as I note, that procedure is essentially based on German practice. It's in my hand. [[He's showing me a document.]] a statement by a Member of the European Parliament on his interests and his income situation, three pages. If you look at your own statements, which are otherwise public, so citizens can see that it often includes 40-50 pages, yet our procedure was critical, theirs, which is so simple, so transparent, and it was very legal. So we're proposing unification. First, conflict of interest rules. According to the Hungarian Parliamentary Act, Parliamentary Members have been subject to incredibly strict rules of conflict of interest since 2010, when we have established the so-called full-time representation, because the law provides for rules of public interest, there would be no change in these rules; it provides for very strict rules of economic conflict of interest; these strict rules remain; there are other rules of conflict of interest; there will be other rules of conflict of interest, there will be a change in the matter of the gift, and I will mention this; there has been activities that have been subject to notification, which has not been public, there will be change here; and the rules of declaration of assets will obviously change, and I will also talk about this, partly the procedural rules will change. I have referred to the Hungarian Parliamentary Act, which is a two-thirds law, and I have said that it sets out incredibly strict rules of conflict of interest for us, and in comparison to this, I will present to you the general conflict of interest regime in the European Parliament: if a Member of the European Parliament's personal interest does not properly influence the performance of the task of his Members of the European Parliament, there is a conflict of interest that is a matter for him, for the Member, and his document also says that when the Member perceives these conflicts of interest, which conflict with the code which he has formulated, he will resolve this conflict of interest, if he does not succeed, he will report to the President, and he can be helped to do so. They feel this framework and, on the other hand, the clear, very strict rules laid down in the Hungarian Parliamentary Act. And I said that there will be no substantive change in Hungarian practice, because the framework that represents a conflict of interest for us remains unchanged, and in this context we will have to interpret our obligations to make declarations of assets. I will then turn to what I have already planned to explain to my fellow Members where changes are expected. That's the question of a gift. This gift was regulated under other conflict of interest rules, isn't it? In the future, the following provisions would apply to this area. The Member shall refrain from accepting any gift or similar allowance in connection with the mandate of the Members, so that is the first rule, no gift shall be accepted. This would obviously be completely unviable knowing the Hungarian gifting habits, Geresdlak, if I turned around as an individual representative, I'm sure they'll put the lavender leaf in my hand, Marok, I don't know, the family, the brew, half cheese in the third place, and so on and so on. To these, the legislator says that these are gifts that are consistent with courtesy habits, but also to set a threshold, so the law says that the 104th century is the case. In paragraph (1) of this article, it is the gifts that we can no longer accept, so this is a clear sum, I note that this is also tens of thousands of HUF. I have never met such gifts in 24 years, and I will not see them in the future, because what an average Member encounters are not these thresholds, and these gifts that comply with civility rules would continue to be acceptable. And the law will also say that the present acts on behalf of the Parliament on what they are, when we are Members of Parliament's official representation, this is also regulated by the law, which is obviously bound to the approval of the Speaker of the House, such gifts to the Speaker, if he represents them abroad as official representatives at an international event, he will submit them to the Speaker of the House. Usually, these are a bagatell things that a congressman gets as a gift, and the Speaker of the House can decide whether to keep it to himself or not. Here is the regulation of the gift given to us by the Parliament, the things given to us by our parties, the things given to us by the party foundation or the faction, the things that help us in our work, they would not fall under this prohibition system, these, and the acceptance of such benefits is clearly still possible for the Member. The next point I have referred to, which is changing, is the non-beneficial activities covered by Chapter 33. [[11.00]] This has been an activity subject to notification so far. When we took over our mandate, we filled these out in a separate form and announced them to the Speaker. But it wasn't public. This practice will cease, and we will also account for activities that are not subject to conflict of interest in our declaration of assets. The property statement was already Annex 1 to the law. The new type of Annex 1 is obviously available to Members. So we will have to meet our obligation to make a declaration of assets in a strict form. If we look at such a form, it will obviously be as simple as the form used by MEPs. There, from A to H, we provide information on our incomes in different areas, X indicates the categories in which this income falls, what economic interests we have. Nóvum is really the first statement in point A. Here, our statement will be about the interests we had three years before our representative activity. That's what we need to show. We obviously bring our interests from the past, our interests before our public office, with us, we cannot undo it, and that network of contacts may influence our activities. Obviously, we also provide for the items that we can do in addition to the activities of our representatives. This is a very broad list in the European Parliament, and I have read the rules on general conflicts of interest for a reason. In our case, in our rule system, the parliamentary law continues to strictly bind the parliamentary representative's hand, so there will be little, if you will, to confess within this item. I know that the rules of procedure are changing in such a way that we do not have to account for the wealth that we have so far accounted for in the future, because this is not a practice in Europe. My property statement is also about the real estate I own from my parents during the compensation process, if you will, I have acquired it or inherited it. In this respect, wealth is removed from this system of declaration, and the relatives are also removed, who, of course, have not been publicly available in this regard. So, in the future, our declaration of assets will also be a declaration of income in accordance with European Parliament practice, and a declaration of interests will be made, covering economic activities, and other activities, which civil society organisations we are a member of, what foundations are around us, which we may be members of, what influence we have on certain companies, through which we are able to influence public-law processes, and so on and so forth. So this is the order of declaration of assets. When do we make the property statements? Obviously, when the Member is elected, he will take an oath, and within a month the order of this declaration of property will come. We will then face a continuous maintenance obligation of this declaration, because if any of the items contained in the declaration change at any time, the Member shall indicate this to the immunity committee, and the immunity committee shall disclose these facts, as it has done in the past. This legislation also states that, with the deadline of 5 August in this new order, Members now make a declaration of assets in accordance with the new order and then maintain these declarations of assets in accordance with the law. As a last thought, I can say that we are taking full account of the practice that the European Parliament is following. This statement is similar in terms of its mission, but we remain subject to stricter rules of conflict of interest, since we have not changed them, while the European Parliament is generous and liberal in this respect. So our obligation to declare property, which is in form like that of the European Parliament, is within a much stricter set of conditions, because, I tell you, the parliamentary law dictates our hand. There is a partial change in procedural order. I think that this is a much simpler procedure than we can get used to, but certain concepts will cause problems for Members to fill in. Obviously, the immunity committee is at the disposal of any Member by interpretation. I think that, after a declaration, we will get involved, and this new order will be maintained and fulfilled by our Members, as has been the case in the course of the wealth declarations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister of State, to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] Here you go. Your time frame is 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-06-28-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In such cases, when the Parliament makes its own rules, the government does not take sides. But what I would like to say is that the Government fully agrees with the objectives of the bill and the proposal, and the Government supports the objective of the bill, and I urge you to vote and accept these proposals. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Róbert Zsigó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of Hungary states in Article 1 (1) that the main representative body of Hungary is the National Assembly, so it is natural that the amendment of the rules establishing the operating framework of the National Assembly is always subject to special attention. Yet our amendment is now necessary. It is necessary, for in recent times we have faced a number of new situations that we need to adapt to. Dear Parliament, We are faced with a new situation in the region of neighbouring Ukraine, with prolonged war and inflation caused by war, which is greatly hampered by the European Union leaders' faulty sanctions policy, so we need to reduce our operating costs, protect Hungarian families, pensioners and jobs, and preserve the results achieved, including the reduction of the rent. As a new situation, it can also be assessed that a candidate who has won an individual mandate in the parliamentary elections after the election, ignoring the task of representing the citizens who elected him, does not take his oath in protest at the Parliament's inaugural meeting, and we can also see as a novelty that the left is primarily taking into account its own financial aspects in the formation of parliamentary political groups. Of course, there's not much new to this, because we knew, and everyone knows, that the left is only about power and money. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposals before us include, in addition to these issues, other technical amendments, which may improve the effectiveness of the Parliament's operation. On the issue of fraction financing, it is important to highlight the following. There are serious imbalances in the current fraction financing system. Although fewer left-wing Members have entered the National Assembly compared to the previous term, they would still receive billions more state aid. The leader of the left, Ferenc Gyurcsány, seemed to know that it was not only a tactic to maximize votes, but there are also serious calculations. According to him, cooperation is also a profitable investment from a financial point of view, as parties would receive almost 160 million forints of base base money not once, but per faction. [[11.10]] The same shall apply to the support of representatives, to office costs, to the framework to assist the representative in his work and to any other allowances which assist the parliamentary work of the faction and from which the budget of each faction is set up. Dear Parliament, While the Left lost 800,000 voters in the April elections, their trick would cost taxpayers 3 billion HUF more. We should not allow or leave this in peacetime, but in this way, during wartime, it is unacceptable. I find it unfair to think that, after the historic defeat of 3 April, the left will divide itself into smaller parties and smaller sections for financial reasons. In view of this, a self-sacrifice gesture by the Democratic Coalition led by Gyurcsány also becomes understandable when a list of representatives were handed over to LMP to form the independent faction. In parentheses, who would have thought that the survival of a parliamentary group of the party proclaiming change in his name would depend on the favors of the former Prime Minister who had previously brought our country to the brink of bankruptcy? It also shows that if it is up to you, there will never be another policy on the left. Dear Parliament, The proposal prevents this trick by amending the system of basic support to ensure the financing of the expenditure related to the operation of the fractions and the system of proportionate support per representative. Under the proposal, the basic part of the operational framework will not be allocated separately to the political groups in the future, but to the common list, which will be divided equally among them. The support for Members as part of the other part of the operational framework is 30% of the basic Members' Honorary Award, multiplied by the number of the Group. The proposal therefore introduces a new complex calculation, as the system in which the Fidesz-KDNP fraction received a HUF 2.2 million monthly grant for one representative during the previous cycle is unsustainable, while a left-wing representative received HUF 3.1 million in support. If we did not change it, this imbalance would continue to increase, which would cost Hungarian taxpayers HUF 4.5 million on a monthly basis, while a pro-government representative would cost HUF 2.7 million. I would add that in the new system there will be more support for an opposition representative than a pro-government member. This would mean that the factions would cost 6 billion HUF more in this cycle than in the previous four years. In the current war situation, this cannot be allowed. Dear Parliament, It is important to say that Hungary has been criticized several times over the past years because of the Hungarian property declaration system. No matter what we think this was a legitimate or unjustified criticism, the proposal on the Parliament's table to lift the situation has decided to shift the system of declaration of assets, essentially based on the German model, which has been recognised throughout Europe and has been applied for years by the MEPs of all EU countries. This is backed up by the strengthening of EU integration, the idea of a single regulation with European countries, which can also prevent future gender-free attacks. By coordinating the regulation, the same obligation applies to Members of Parliament and the Hungarian European Parliament, who in both cases are authorised from the same electoral base, but have so far been subject to unjustified discrimination. Dear Parliament, It is also part of the proposal that parliamentary groups should be able to resign from a specific part of their operating terms and offer it to their party on the national list in the form of grants. The support shall be decided by the head of the parliamentary group and shall be paid by transfer to the payment account of the beneficiary credit institution. The possibility of crossing the political groups on the common list is also included in the proposals. The House Rule does not currently allow Members of the Group to join any other faction. In all cases, the termination of the membership of the political group will result in the Member becoming independent and he will no longer be able to join another political group. The proposal was made because democratic legitimacy is not based on the faction to which the Member belongs, but on the party list, the joint party list or the single mandate constituency, the vote cast on the candidate of the party or the joint candidate. In other words, the current rules do not allow the full effect of the electoral will, as the voter votes for a particular list or candidate to give the party on the list or, in the case of a common list, a joint mandate to enter the National Assembly. This proposal would make it possible to do so by allowing the representative of the political group of the parties making up the common national list to join any faction formed from representatives of the party on the common national list. This option, as a result of the above principles, should, mutatis mutandis, be granted only to the groups of the parties on the common list, not to the independent or independent Members. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We believe it is important that the Parliament discusses and adopts the proposal, and that we should also strengthen the authority of the Parliament and strengthen it so that the will of the electorate can become even more effective in our parliamentary work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Gergely Arató, lead speaker for the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-47	Dear House, I have to say that this proposal, which, now continuing the practice of the last more than a decade, has come before Parliament unilaterally, without consulting, without any kind of consensus, is, in a sense, a recognition of opposition work. After all, as much as you ignore what we say here, at any time, two thirds, as a voting machine, without thinking about all our proposals and all our comments, this proposal shows that you are disturbed by the opposition's parliamentary presence and parliamentary work. They will do their best to make the work of the opposition more difficult, to do their best to prevent the opposition from representing the opinion of the voters voting for it and the country's interest in our faith here in Parliament. So far, they continue to ignore all voters who do not vote for you, I would add that their own voters are constantly being deceived. So what is this proposal about? First of all, the fact that there are independent institutions in Hungary is now giving up the appearance, as it has been established in 30 years that in Parliament a committee consisting of representatives of various such bodies, such as the Media Council, the Public Service Board, the State Court of Auditors or the Constitutional Court, has proposed the current five-, six-, seven-, eight-party committee, i.e. representatives of all factions. Undoubtedly, since 2010, this has been a formality, because every time you propose membership and leadership of these bodies by sweeping down opposition opinions, you don't care what the opposition represents in this regard, and you don't care that these are posts for which it would be appropriate to reach a compromise, it would be appropriate if consensus candidates could be put forward. Now, with a respectably sincere gesture, they are ending this type of coercion, and they do not even want to listen to the opposition in this matter. [[11.20]] They will bring this matter to the Committees, with a majority of you, i.e. the Committees with a pro-government majority, where precisely what is going to happen now in the case of budgetary amendments is that all opposition proposals will be voted out without thinking. Let it be clear: this proposal is an open admission that the public service curatorium, the State Audit Office, the Constitutional Court or the Media Council are not independent institutions, these are the political functions of Fidesz, the government side. We already knew that. I'll say it again. [[Máté Kocsis: But how does that come out? Where did you read that, Gergő?]] I am grateful that you are now speaking frankly about this. [[Máté Kocsis: Where did you read it? The president's ringing the bell.]] And they're prosecuting it. I would like to give another fine example of how democracy works in your view. [[Robert Szigó: You haven't said one more!]] This is that, from now on, the seat of Members will be defined by the Speaker of the House. This also worked in the past by seeking consensus, by reaching a consensus before 2010, and after 2010, you pushed it through force, but at least there was an appearance that we were seeking agreement. But that is no longer the case, and the Speaker of the House will decide where to sit, whose place is, as it should be, in a nice, democratic manner. The situation is similar with the membership of the political groups and the possibility of a transfer. Ladies and gentlemen, these rules are such that you have some kind of concept of what is beneficial to Fidesz and, of course, to KDNP, and they simply lead it through one-sidedly. A year or two or three years ago, it was considered appropriate not to change a political group, who, for some reason, wants to get out of the group, to go to detention among the independents, and now they see their interest in being able to sit between the political groups. I don't know why, because I don't know about that kind of intention, but you may already know more than I do. Now they're gonna write back and undo this rule. The important thing is not to be honest about what is right, not what is right in principle, but rather to say that these are typically rules that are tried by consensus and agreement in a democratic parliament. Because, in principle, opposition representatives in Parliament have the same rights, because they represent their own voters, but you have not been able to accept this since 2010. They cannot accept that despite all manipulation, all propaganda and any austerity and any retortion of opposition, and all penalties, opposition representatives in this Parliament also sometimes disagree with you. We've reached the essence of this bill, because of course, the rest is a sort of beauty patch. What is the point of this bill? Abolition of the property declaration system. There is, of course, a reference to the European Parliament, but the situation, dear fellow Members, is that there is no system of declaration of assets in the European Parliament, and Members in the European Parliament make a statement of financial interest. That it is right that there is no system of declaration of assets in the European Parliament is worth discussing [[Why didn't you criticize him?]] , a number of people are also debating it, including opposition MEPs, and they say that there is a need for stricter regulation there as well. But you're not moving forward, you're stepping back. You are moving in the direction of no asset declaration system. Let me be clear, you don't want to account for your assets, you don't want to spread the cards. Yet, the declaration of property would be an important tool if it were to be used in an appropriate way, for it would enable it to be seen who would suddenly appear in his wealth of grapes, inventions, and real estate. As bad as this wealth declaration system works and is limited, it still gives a kind of picture of the propertyisation of Members. Is this asset statement system okay, what's going on today? This wealth declaration system is not good, it can be played in many ways, and you will play it. If we were to introduce a stricter system of declaration of assets, a more transparent system, to make tax returns public, to make real estate registers searchable, to make the family's declaration public under certain circumstances, we could support it. But that's not what's happening here. What's happening is that you want to take the last of the weak brakes out of your own wealth, and in no way do you wish to admit to the electorate that, under your parliamentary representation, you may not give to me, by abusing what wealth you will acquire. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Small fork! The president's ringing the bell.]] There is a rule that can be supported otherwise, and it would have been worth discussing if you had the intention to have a consensus. This is a clarification of the rules on gifts. I am very curious that, from now on, such non-small gifts as a foreign hunt or a free flight to international football matches will appear in the statement of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister concerned, confessing these from now on. I hope that's the case, but I don't think it's likely from experience. So, there's something to look for. You refer to the German Financial Interest Statement, but you may have missed the fact that in 2011 [[Sic!]] a scandal concerning the purchase of masks and ventilators, because such scandals are being revealed in Germany, tightened up these rules, and further tightening is to be expected precisely because it has also been shown that this type of system you are proposing is not appropriate. Finally, in many ways, the way in which you speak of the support of the factions and political groups is revealing. The problem is not in itself that they want to reduce this support. It may indeed be necessary, and it could even be negotiated by consensus, about how it is worth doing or how it can be done without, by the way, hindering the work of its representatives and the political work. But that is not the case, dear fellow Members. You have made the rules under which the factions operate today, unilaterally, without consulting the opposition. You have created the electoral system on the basis of which these factions are formed. You are the ones who forced the opposition to run on a common list by changing the electoral system. They didn't leave us any other option, because otherwise we couldn't have put together joint candidates in individual districts. To say, then, that the opposition abuses the law, to put it mildly, is insolence. You are the ones who continue to abuse the instruments of the law in order to put yourself in a favourable position in the elections and then put the opposition at a disadvantage in Parliament. You refer to the will to vote. Interestingly, it doesn't bother you that, unlike the electoral will, 54 percent of the Fidesz voter has reached 68 percent of their seats here in Parliament. Then you won't be disturbed by the will to vote. There was even greater disproportionateness in the previous two elections. The reason why there wasn't such a disproportion is because the opposition started together. Ladies and gentlemen, When you accuse the opposition of abuse of law, that is, to put it mildly, false and false. Speak honestly. Tell them you don't like the fact that there's an opposition. [[György Balla: We like the opposition very much! It's quite wonderful.]] And they will do everything in their power to make the life of the opposition more difficult in Parliament! I have to say that I understand this intention, and once again, I take it as a compliment, but you will not be able to intimidate us by these means. If you're hoping that with the constant destruction, with the punishment, with the violation of our rights, you'll [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What right did you have?]] the opposition and the Democratic Coalition can be silenced as the opposition's largest party, then they are wrong. We will stand up for our electorate's rights, and we will stand up for what we think is right. [[Robert Szigó: Money and power!]] You can punish, distract, make all kinds of regulations and rules to make our work in Parliament difficult, and we will still represent our constituents. [[Robert Zsigo: Because you have represented him so far!]] If you don't like it. Of course, we do not support the bill. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You want more money! The president's ringing the bell.]] is not considered acceptable in any form. [[Robert Zsigó: Congratulations! Applause from the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-28-48	Ladies and gentlemen, There will be a chance to comment, please put your capacities aside for that time, but do not try to get in the way, to take advantage of each other in some form. The following speakers presented the position of the KDNP Group. The party faction has indicated that two of their representatives will do so. First, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.30]]
u2022-06-28-49	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot go past the speech of our fellow Member Gergely Arató, because we must say that the abuse of rights has indeed occurred through the association of the six opposition parties led by Ferenc Gyurcsány and their fragmentation into factions. Abuse of rights, fellow Members, exercise of the law, if it is intended for purposes incompatible with the social purpose of the right. I therefore raise the question to our fellow Member Gergely Arató: do you consider it legitimate that because the left-wing unit led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, as Péter Márki-Zay put it, receives from the Communists to the fascists, essentially twice as much funding from the budget as the pro-government representatives? Is that legal, my fellow Member? I don't think so. Such a procedure, which leads to it, is only an abuse of rights, and if it weren't, we wouldn't have to amend the parliamentary law. In the last 12 years, Hungary, under the leadership of the national Christian government, has stood its ground, the Hungarian economy has become strong, and despite the crises, it has remained strong. I believe that this is annoying to our opposition fellow Members. And we are proud to be the fastest and most successful out of the crisis caused by Covid in Europe. This means that Hungarians can count on Fidesz-KDNP in any situation, peacetime, migration time, epidemic or now during the war period, and count on the government led by Viktor Orbán. Ladies and Gentlemen, Since the spring of 2022, that is, since the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out, we have faced even more serious crises and uncertainties. We have to assume that the war is going on, which means that the economic effects are getting worse every month, week after week, day after day. In the light of the above, the T/369 amendment of the Parliamentary Act was presented. The aim of this proposal is to contribute to the maintenance of national economic stability. This is linked, inter alia, to the amendment of the rules on the financing of parties and to the amendment of the rules on expenditure associated with the functioning of the factions, which Mr Máté Kocsis has already described in detail as rapporteur. The proposal also aims to strengthen European integration. In this context, Parliamentary Members' rule of declaration of property was transformed by the planned amendment of the house rules. In addition, the amendment proposes that the persons of public officials elected by Parliament, currently designated under a case-by-case nominating procedure, should be designated and heard in the future by the Standing Committee of Parliament responsible for the function, thereby bringing together and ensuring coherence with the rules on candidacy to be carried out in the parliamentary procedure. The proposal also includes amendments to a number of substantive and technical rules relating to the functioning of Parliament. Ladies and Gentlemen, Once again, I would like to stress that the left-wing merger led by Ferenc Gyurcsány started on a list, but on 2 May 2022 it finally formed six factions in the Hungarian Parliament. With this trick, the left-wing merger wants to enjoy the benefits of small parties, so that each of the six groups would have the operating costs, the supply framework, the pay and the cafeteria framework separately. The fact is that while the united left-wing opposition lost 800 thousand voters in the parliamentary elections in April 2022, despite their historic defeat at the parliamentary inaugural session, they already acted to demand 3 billion forints more from taxpayers. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The fact is that the benefit per opposition representative has always been a little more, but not so much, my fellow Members, and it is clear from this that this was not a legitimate conduct, but an abuse of a right, because the legislator's intention did not cover it. If we didn't change the regulation, a government representative would cost HUF 2.7 million a month, while an opposition representative would cost HUF 4.5 million in the period 2022-26. Ladies and Gentlemen, This is extremely disproportionate, and I hear it as if my fellow opposition Members are listening now. They're doing the right thing because, in their shame, they're probably just listening. This means that it would cost taxpayers almost twice as much to have an opposition representative as a pro-government representative. If we didn't touch the system, this cycle would cost Parliament 6 billion HUF more than in the previous cycle. Therefore, the bill introduces a new complete calculation, detracting 3 billion from the left by the faction trick, and the governing parties lose 2 billion forints. With these amendments, the result is still that even in this new system, an opposition representative will cost more than a pro-government representative. Ladies and Gentlemen, And as far as house rules are concerned, H/368. The resolution proposal amends the rules on group formation, allowing members of the group of members of the political groups which have drawn up a common national list and belong to the parties who have obtained a mandate in the previous general election of Members to join the political group, and introduces the European Parliament's declaration of assets, which, as we have heard, is in line with German rules. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that, for many years now, the Hungarian property declaration system has been much criticised, whether these criticisms have been justified or not, and I believe that the Brussels double standard that regularly reaches Hungary can be resolved from this point of view at least. This double standard in Brussels is now part of everyday life, but with this amendment of the Parliamentary Act and the amendment of the resolution rules, we can protect Hungary by incorporating the rules used in the EP word by word. I saw here in the debate that you have already started attacking, so you are not working with a double system, but with a triple system. By the way, as I said, the same system is used in Germany, and interestingly, there were neither the opposition nor external attacks on this property declaration in Germany. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill and the proposal for a decision. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The keynote speech of the KDNP will be continued by Mr István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Our essential arguments have been made, and I would like to add one. There is a very important principle for us that Fidesz and KDNP have not just begun to enforce in their work, but since we are in government. [[11.40]] This is to say that the institutional system of democracy cannot be decoupled from the economic, security and political reality around us. This was the reason, however, that when Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferencs destroyed this country and put the country on the brink of bankruptcy, we said that the institutional system of democracy must also be transformed, which is why it became a 199-member parliament with 386 members, because we said that in this economic situation the legislation must also be slimmered. We are continuing to enforce this principle today when there is war inflation. When there is a war next door, it is not permissible, as previous speakers have said, that with various tricks left-wing parties, despite losing 800 thousand voters, they will receive 3 billion forints more in the next four years. The point of the proposal before us is to transfer these funds, the parties and the factions will pass on this source and add it to the Defence and Security Funds. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow left-wing Members to the fact that it has cost almost twice as much under the current legislation or it still costs a left-wing Member as a right-winger. In fact, even if the Parliament adopts the new regulation, it will cost more to a left-wing Member than a right-wing Member. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow harvester when he said that only left-wing people are losing here, that, for example, all parties are losing on operating costs, both Fidesz and KDNP. [[Gergely Harvester: Except for our country, your favorites!]] I mean, he said everyone loses, but the government doesn't. I would like to tell Mr Arató to look at the regulation, because he will see that KDNP will also lose in this new rule over the next four years. But it is natural for us, in this difficult situation of war inflation, to make this contribution to the public policy. As far as the order of declaration of assets is concerned, I take it from Mr Arato, however, that they are talking about the transparency of wealth in the tiny mansion. There's a discreet charm to this. I mean, if you are now saying that you do not consider the order of the European Parliament's declaration to be appropriate, then I would like to ask what Klára Dobrev did, the wife of your party's president, as Vice-President of the European Parliament in this case, because she has not spoken once. So it seems to me that you've been in your right place so far, that Klára Dobrev was in line with this policy of property declaration, and now for some reason, it's no longer appropriate for you. We believe that the transposition of this system of declarations of property finally closes a long-standing debate with Brussels. Since we in Brussels, although we have debates, but we want to agree on sensible things, we think that we can at last shorten the series of debates by taking over the rules of declaration of assets, because there can be no debate from then on. Once again, we believe this regulation to be correct, we believe it to be realistic, which is why the KDNP faction will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman, who is speaking here on the stand. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to say my speech in classic threesomes. First, in our view, I would like to talk about the regulations of the proposals before us that violate balanced civil democracy, second, the rules on conflicts of interest and declaration of assets, and thirdly, I would like to call them a little colorful from the proposal before us. Let's start with the fact that over the last 12 years, Fidesz, building a one-party overpower, has been trying to suppress any support for the opposition's political activities. I would also like to remind you that the State Audit Office led by the former Fidesz Member hit the EPP Jobbik with a fine of almost one billion, which our party paid until March last year, so basically for many years there was hardly any way to finance our political activities at basic level. Here, too, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow pro-government speakers to the deceitful and cynical argument they have just made here. We are talking about HUF 3 billion, while only the Prime Minister, ministers and the State Secretarys' salary increase costs HUF 4 billion to Hungarian taxpayers. Don't you feel the infinite Pharisee in that argument? You really don't feel it? ! While Rogán's propagandaistery will be pouring information to us again from 76 billion forints, which is also the political activity of Fidesz, because in such a political system towards one-party overpower, the party of the state and the government begin to merge. Forward on the puppy road, comrades. So you don't feel the infinite deceitful and cynical nature of this? Seriously, do they dare to stand up here in these historical walls and argue that we'll save it? ! Seriously? In addition, Jobbik, as the right centre conservative party of our country, does not support the idea of post-painting, changing regulations after an election. Because we, as parties to the legal order, believe in the institutions and believe that it is only the stability of the institutions that belongs to a balanced civil democracy in which we believe, because it is the only thing that ensures the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens. So, on the basis of principle, too, this regulation before us is very false, because it is trying to find a set of arguments for why it brings a completely unfair funding system where practically the factions on the common list receive virtually equal support, regardless of how many people the faction is. I would like to note that on the Fidesz-KDNP list there is also a KDNP with a large fraction, while the social support of KDNP is converging towards zero. So to argue that the electoral will is being transposed here by your proposal is extremely cynical and worrying, in our opinion. In particular, Article 17 is of great concern. Paragraph 2 of the Act, which concerns the possibility of exonerating a committee president, vice-president and member, has just been forgotten from the regulation, who initiates, on what basis, who decides. What is it, if not, that, in practice, according to the experience so far, Mr Speaker decides, let's say, from tomorrow, an opposition representative is no longer a committee president? Do you really dare to write this in a law that, from now on, a representative elected by Hungarian citizens can be exonerated from any position? ! By the way, I note that the nearly two million voters who voted for the six-party cooperation, which, by the way, you forced out by regulating the electoral law a few months before the elections, which is a civil and conservative force giving you anything in a balanced civil democracy, won't do a few months before the election... and now they will change the rules afterwards, in line with their current political interests. This is outrageous, my fellow Members with Fidesz. This is outrageous! [[11.50]] In the second point, I would like to comment on the declarations of conflict of interest and property. Jobbik's group has also been very transparent in the system so far, and for a long time even our family members' declarations of property have been made public. Your propaganda was delicacy on this. You dare to stand here and say that it is good, then let everything be the same as in the European Union. Good. Anyway, it doesn't matter, because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's declaration of property hasn't been about reality, nor will it be about reality, because he believes that a 32-year-old Member of Parliament, who has been Prime Minister of this country for several years, doesn't have a piece of forint's savings, he can believe in anything, even an iron-nosed midwife. So I think it's not about regulation. By the way, the representatives of Jobbik, as they have done, will then enter reality in accordance with the framework that the respected Fidesz majority will now vote for. The truth doesn't depend on us, but it does depend on you. I called the last part of my speech "Little Colors." So, as you said in the expo, I understand that you have to bring a lex Hadházy here. In fact, if you look at someone deliberately boycotting the oath, you could even agree with that. At the same time, this regulation does not distinguish between deliberately boycotting the inaugural session for political purposes, as our fellow Member Hadházy did, and having a retortion, Jobbik agrees, but this bill does not regulate what happens if, let's say, if someone resigns as a new member of Parliament, he does not regulate how quickly the new Member has to swear. So we think that it is very important here to make this distinction, what it is, when someone is actually deliberately boycotting the formation of Parliament, it should be sanctioned, but it should be precisely sanctioned, and not for the Speaker of the House to decide on this, of course. At the same time, it must be distinguished from that, and there must be precise regulation of the time within which a new Member who, say, has to take an oath from the list, or even if an individual mandate is empty, how quickly after the result of the re-election can take the oath, I think that we must regulate it very accurately, precisely in order to avoid abuse. A. 87. § (3) I think that many of us will be employed for a long time. This is about the fact that when a person is on Parliament's behalf and receives a gift, it must be given to the Speaker. The Speaker of the House looks at this gift and decides whether or not to return it to the congressman. If this was a cabaret, I'd laugh, but it's not. You, my fellow Members, dared to write this down. Seriously. By the way, as Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Speaker of Parliament has never appointed me to represent the Hungarian Parliament, despite my express requests, but only a pro-government vice-president can do so. So we didn't really have the opportunity to do this as opposition representatives, so it doesn't concern us, and I would point out only the absurdity of this regulation that we are trying to regulate a virtually lifeless situation here, which is not my fellow Member Nacsa here, but a Bagi-Nacsa show fits better than the Parliament's bill. And I would also have a little color in this last part, which is a regulation for a time-frame debate. Here, this bill would remove the possibility of doubling timeframes in time-frame debates. I do not know, and I would ask the rapporteur whether this may be the first thing that you want to do is bring it back, that the debate on all legislative proposals should be on a time-frame, and then we would be able to put an end to it, so that we could double, say, in a parliamentary debate, the timeframe for a time-frame debate. So this is an open question for me as to the direction in which this regulation will take the operation of our Parliament. In summary, therefore, we are against this amendment proposal in principle, simply because in a balanced civil democracy, it cannot be subsequently, post-painted, any reason to change regulators with such deceitful and Pharisee arguments. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-28-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Momentum Group is Mr Miklós Hajnal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I'm a little sad that Mr. Máté Kocsis is no longer in the room, because I must admit, his thoughts were quite inspiring, which was that if opposition parties were to run independently, then who would enter Parliament and who would not. I have been so inspired that I would, with due respect, suggest to the pro-government coalition, and especially to KDNP, that he try to test himself in an election on his own next time, and that'll come to light. I think that the nation would be anxious to get to the KDNP parliament. Seriously, you've been in power for 12 years, and for 12 years, you've been virtually constantly amending the granite-solid Fundamental Law that you've written. And then, as we've seen in the last few days, they're doing the same thing with the house laws and parliamentary laws you've rewritten. It has to be seen that in the last 12 years, it has rarely occurred that there have been political factors that you have not been able to control. The exception was eight years ago the Internet protests, five years ago the NOlimpia and last fall the opposition primary. If you are able to govern by two thirds, often even have extraordinary permissions for everything, and otherwise there is hardly any domestic policy area left that you do not influence, then the question arises why you should always touch laws and decisions describing the country's basic functioning. Can't you make them properly? That's what we're talking about right now. Fidesz has written house rules and Parliamentary law, and they are about to change with little things where you can't see at all how it will otherwise serve the country's operation and development, and instead you will demonstrate that Parliament's operation can change unilaterally, according to the wishes of the governing parties. By the way, since Congressman Nacsa was quoted here, he set a very good example when he said that they had consulted each other, pointed to himself and Matthew Kocsis. Unfortunately, they did not do so to opposition parties and opposition representatives. It's not okay on its own. But let us also address one or two specific issues in these drafts, and there are two drafts in the debate. Dear fellow Members, It is clear that you are trying to exclude some who are unpleasant to you from the work of your substantive representatives, and this is an example in the case of an unspoken Member who may be called lex Hadházy, even in the case of an amendment limiting the Member's rights to request and access data. You still do not ensure the parliamentary representation of the voters in Zugló, but you are now proposing further derogations, and this proposal also includes a reduction of the available framework for the experts of independent Members by half. I would suggest to you that instead of restricting the substance of the work of unsympathetic Members, you may address the crisis or even the drawing of EU funds and fulfilling the conditions, and that you best allow Ákos Hadházy to take an oath. It would be difficult not to smile at the amendments that you are planning to make regarding the acceptance of gifts. Of course, by the way, these are completely eligible changes on paper, but from the representatives of a yachter, helicopter and private aviation government, this is simply ridiculous. Why are we amending a law that you are not going to comply with, or how are we going to imagine it? Péter Szijjártó himself will go to László Kövér or Viktor Orbán to ask permission at Lady MRD next time he wants to take a vacation on the Adriatic, or what will this process be? It's less amusing and more simply saddening, and there are no better words for it: it's simply a sneaky move you're making with the declarations of assets. [[12.00]] In fact, in a European harmonisation robe, you are creating a much weaker system of declaration of assets. On that basis, no declaration of assets shall be made annually from now on, only at the beginning of the mandate of the representatives. With this in mind, family members should no longer make declarations of property, and on this basis they would erase the property register from the property statement, so that this is a clear step backwards from the rules on property declarations that are already very weak, untraceable and with virtually no consequences. Believe me, I am glad that you are able to take on Western examples, but I would suggest that, if you want to learn from the functioning of the European Parliament, you should take on good practices, there are plenty of them. Fill the Parliamentary Commission's work with substance, as it is done in the European Parliament, or let the press back into the corridors, but these proposals will obviously not be followed. I would also like to draw your attention to a consequence, which is also linked to this amendment, with which I am not sure that they have been taken into account, although President-in-Office of the Commission has also mentioned it in his speech. According to their current draft, the new rules for the declaration of assets are expected to enter into force on 1 August, so that, if I count correctly, everyone will have to make a new declaration by 5 August, at least this is indicated in the proposal 40. §, there is virtually no time to prepare. If that's what you're planning, then obviously your soul on it, we're gonna stick to the deadline, and we've been keeping it. I'm just suggesting that you two discuss how this timing can be held, so that the boss doesn't go on vacation. And if we are already lost in such small details, I must also point out that several of your proposals have been addressed only with a remarkably formal amendment proposal. I'm thinking, quite specifically, the proposal is 42. In its section, there are several examples of this, that instead of a word, a word is added to the word. This clearly suggests that you may want to make substantial changes to the amending package before the Legislative Committee. I'm a member of the Legislative Committee, and I know how it works. It seems to me that you are using this to prevent certain issues from being brought into a general debate, and then at the last minute 80-page amendments are submitted, and then we can vote the next day. So when you do this, and when you use such grammatical loopholes, you don't play with open cards, and you can easily see this as an example. So we are not debating today, or we are not debating a hundred percent of what will eventually be adopted today. I ask you to give the voters the respect of the public plenary debate and undertake not to present a last-minute amendment package to the Legislative Committee with a grammatical loophole. Now, you guys have been talking a lot about the extraction of the factions, but I'm not gonna go deeper into this, and it's probably gonna give you some kind of perverse pleasure. I'd just like to say that you can dig around in each other's pockets, but there's only one person who doesn't have you in their pockets, and these are the oligarchs. I therefore suggest that you support the Momentum proposal to introduce an oligarch tax. It would certainly serve the country's development and provide budget resources for a great deal of important issues, raising wages for teachers, settling the wages of nurses, and there are still so many initiatives that you will wipe out in the budgetary debate. Dear Parliament, In the last 12 years, the Hungarian Parliament has been virtually empty. Parliament's press publicity has been restricted, the Commission's work has almost been abolished, and the house rules are now being changed for no real reason. You have eliminated the Hungarian Parliament, maintaining only the appearance of parliamentary democracy, and with this presentation we are taking another step backwards, not forward. Thank you for your attention. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-06-28-56	Welcome, fellow Members. At the same time, I give the floor to Novak Elok, the lead speaker of the group of our country. [[Nacsa Lawrence: It's easy!]]
u2022-06-28-57	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, A hypocritical declaration of assets covering corruption would be replaced by an even less transparent one, which is unacceptable and therefore this proposal is unacceptable. Abolishing the obligation of family members to make declarations of property, which should be the most insufferable to them, but they were not ashamed to present it even after so many scandals. However, less money can be made available to the faction, the factions, including the Group of the Hungarian Movement, in the current situation. We support politicians to show restraint, so on the day of the Parliament's inaugural session, when all the parties here were busy fighting between the various parliamentary posts, we have already submitted a proposal to demonstrate political temperament in order to abolish immunity, which is clearly also aimed at curbing political crime. If, normally, the system of declarations of assets were used to make public life more transparent, especially the activities of politicians, and to reduce corruption, they would approach this proposal in a very different way. According to the rules so far, the Member is obliged to attach to his declaration of assets the property declaration of his or her married or co-habiting partner and his or her children. Well, these family property statements have been perfectly valid so far, because we're talking about a community of property in the case of a family, whatever family it is. That, very often, even underage children have bought various properties in the name of their own property and thus disposed of the various assets, obviously not properly acquired, since why should it be stashed in other cases, should normally have been discovered. However, the regulations so far were that they kept them in the Parliament's safe, so they basically encrypted the family's property statements, against which only the Hungarian Movement has spoken in recent years. We believe that this element of the declaration of assets system should be disclosed to the public, not removed. Further unacceptable changes, skewings in the system, that no precise amount should then be shown to Members, only a margin of income in the declarations of assets. There is no need to declare the incomes of relatives, real estate, high-value property, all of these had to be done so far, and then not on the basis of a proposal from the governing parties, as well as savings, loans, debts, so all that can make a slightly hypocritical system transparent. We are talking about a serious step backwards, while our country's movement would have proposals to curb political crime, to curb corruption. In addition to making the declarations of assets more transparent, we propose that at the beginning and at the end of each cycle, all Members of Parliament, but also the ministers of state, for example, should automatically be subject to a property inspection at the beginning and at the end of each cycle, in order, of course, to discover the property that has not been properly acquired by the Member in a way that can be covered by official income. This is what should be seen, and this should be revealed by a propertyisation investigation, a regular propertyisation investigation, but this is also a proposal that the governing parties and Balliberal opposition parties are not willing to hear about. Of course, there were flaws in the system of declaration of assets so far. Just think, for example, that you can't search, can't be looked at in the IT sense of the word, can't even be found in character-recognized PDFs on Parliament's website, even the property statements that we submit with an electronic filling system, or submit if this is automatically displayed after the rescue. But this is not what is happening, but after the rescue print it, sign it, scan it, but not as it used to be, for 10-20 years, even if it is at least a character-recognized bill, at least it can be searched for, but it is shown as a simple picture in practice, making the work of organisations fighting for transparency as difficult as possible. This is why, for example, the electronic filling system should be made such that the declarations of assets appear automatically, even retroactively, in a truly transparent form, and not by checking it, it is possible, but the transparency of these many thousands of pages can be called into question. It would be necessary for its representatives, in addition to the removal of its encryption, rather than the abolition of family property declarations, to introduce, in addition to regular propertyisation tests, an obligation to declare, for example, any other nationality. [[12.10]] Today, once Jobbik has been smoothed down to the left, only the Hungarian Movement confesses and demands it. We have seen scandals about this, when, in fact, a MSZP representative's passport obtained from an African banana republic, and thus his obviously citizenship may have covered the escape route that he might have found in his safe for hundreds of millions of forints in addition to the passport. If international examples are already being very clever, I must acknowledge this, bringing the EU example here, while this means a step backwards, but thus undoubtedly reducing the attackability, let me give you an example. Why shouldn't the Israeli example be brought here in relation to the obligation to declare any other nationality of Members? Not only does it have to be declared in Israel, but it cannot be a Member, nor can it be a Member of Parliament who holds the nationality of another country. In this regard, the proposal of the Hungarian Movement is almost insufferably moderate, since we are merely saying that it should be made public what other nationality the Members of the European Parliament may have. As it was, let's say, about Péter Márki-Zay, it turned out in the heat of the campaign that he had sworn to the Constitution of Canada alone, and not to the Hungarian. It would therefore be necessary to make many changes, but the clever move to refer to the Union's system of declaration of assets, to hide behind it, is that I think that politically it may be clever, but it is certainly not a fair move. In any case, it is not justified to adapt the Hungarian regime to the regulation of the Union, since it is necessary to prepare for life after the Union, but rather the European Union is moving towards this headless wave of enlargement, when the main question is when the Taliban will be admitted to the European Union, for example, with the unconditional support of Ukraine's accession to the European Union, except for the Hungarian Movement. In this sense, it should not be adapted to the legal order and practices of the European Union, but rather to the fight against corruption. Finally, let me put forward two small proposals, which are contained in this bill before us and in the amendment of house rules. The elimination of ad hoc nominating committees, I think, is eligible and should be supported, has been quite hypocritical and extremely bureaucratic so far, that we are creating a committee, as if it were decided who should be appointed, let us say, the President of the State Audit Office or the Constitutional Court, even though they are more decided in Viktor Orbán's study or perhaps the national presidency of Fidesz. On the other hand, setting up a new committee for a case-by-case decision, I think it is certainly unjustified when, for example, committees may do so. However, the amendment on which the Fidesz Group leader said that it was drafted in consultation with one of the opposition parties cannot be accepted, so it is truly a opposition proposal, which has now been tabled by the governing parties. Although he did not tell us which party suggested this, which party on the left, because it was not the Hungarian Movement that made such backup deals with Fidesz, he lobbied the fact that the group funds could now be played over to the parties. This is not acceptable to me, because, although Parliament's debates have been emptied so far, these parliamentary support groups would serve to entrust experts with the writing of serious background material where appropriate and to allow more serious, substantive debates to take place here in Parliament. The fact that this is actually party money and that it is possible to build a party here rather than a meaningful parliamentary work, for example, to finance campaign expenditure, is that propaganda is financed from these state aids, for example, instead of professional working materials, substantial constructive proposals, I do not think that it promotes parliamentary democracy, the functioning of Parliament. Therefore, this part of the proposal was whispered to Fidesz by any Balliberal side and was thus included in this proposal by the Fidesz faction leader, according to a statement from the Fidesz faction leader, the Hungarian Movement cannot in any way support it. As well as the whole proposal before us, despite the obvious justification for reducing the operational support of the factions. Obviously, this sacrifice will be accepted by our country's Movement, as the other parties will have to do. This is certainly a forward-looking measure, and it must be about the restraint of politicians that a proposal has finally been tabled, and if, for example, our proposal to abolish immunity has been voted down, I think that this self-limiting is at least appropriate and justified. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-28-58	The next speaker was Mr András Jámbor, lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-28-59	Thank you for the floor. Actually, I'm not so surprised that we're here in the debate on a bill, that there's been an election that sets the framework for four years of work, and then you rewrite it. Obviously, this is what we have seen in recent years, that gradually, instead of the traditions of popular will and Hungarian parliamentarism, your interests in power determine how this work works. By the way, I think that the example of Ákos Hadházy is the best one, with whom I have many disputes, but the fact remains that there is one of the 106 Hungarian constituencies that does not have a representative, who cannot submit proposals for amending the budget, who cannot address the problems of the local people. And you would have been able to resolve this situation if you had given Ákos Hadházy the opportunity to take an oath. [[Robert Szigó: Why didn't you take an oath?]] You didn't give me this opportunity, so the representation of the population of one of the 106 constituencies was essentially taken away. And the problem is that this opens up opportunities to take away the rights and opportunities of any Member of Parliament in Hungary, because there is only one House Rule amendment to say that anyone who comes into the Parliament in a white shirt will become unworthy of representation, and then you will be able to make different rules about them. My question to you is, do you steal? 'Cause if they're not stealing, I don't understand exactly why asset statements need to be weakened otherwise. The current legislation is also lousy, and in the last 12 years, the system of declarations of assets has been continuously weakened. You know, this is a question that they don't have to hide. Then why is it that you guys are essentially evacuating this asset statement system? There would be a lot of opportunities, even in your direction, to copy the European Parliament's system of declaration of assets to tighten up, because there is a lot of other anti-corruption regulations attached to the European Parliament, the European Union, there is the European Public Prosecutor's Office, there is lobbying regulation, there is conflict of interest regulation, but somehow I do not see them in this bill. What I see is that they are taking on a really bad European Parliament regulation, and this is particularly amusing because we will be discussing another item on the agenda tonight, where you are proposing the lifting of the European Parliament, but in this item on the agenda, they are proposing that we take over one of the regulations of the European Parliament. That doesn't seem very consistent to me. Overall, this proposal is obviously all about how Parliamentarism rules are rewritten in their own interests, and obviously we have been used to this in the last 12 years, unfortunately there are little surprises in this area. However, I would like to add one thing: in addition to reducing the money of the parliamentary factions, the Group of Dialogue had a proposal to reduce the salary of Members, Ministers, State Secretarys, the Prime Minister by 20%. This, by the way, represents a greater saving than the proposal that lies before Parliament, and would not only be a greater saving, but instead of professional work, instead of the professional work of the parties and the factions, it would be taken from you, me, the ministers and the Prime Minister's salary. I think it is not a sacrifice that should be made to reduce the wages of fellow Members, but a reduction in our salary is the sacrifice that must be made in a livelihood crisis. Thank you for the floor.
u2022-06-28-60	Lóránt László Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, is now coming. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.20]]
u2022-06-28-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Members have said many things to me, and it will be justified to respond to them and to react to some comments, but I would also like to run through these two legislative proposals first, which we are therefore discussing in a joint debate. We fully agree, and I think that this cannot be a debate about the fact that we were living in a time of crisis, so it is clear that, after the corona virus pandemic and the economic crisis that has arisen, we now have the climate crisis, the effects of climate change, the effects of environmental destruction, in the context of a serious war conflict. It can be seen that these are crises that we can say are changing, and we cannot really expect to be able to avoid these challenges in the coming decades. Obviously, we are all struggling and hoping that there will not be such serious crises, and obviously there will be no wars here in our immediate vicinity or anywhere in general. It is therefore clear that in times of crisis this must be addressed, and we also agree that, where possible, unjustified or unjustified expenditure should be reduced, and we also fully agree that everyone should take their share of public burdens or make a greater contribution to public burdens in such a difficult economic situation. We also agree, of course, that the parties must do the same. When there was a motion under the Covid, we agreed that I spoke and supported it here myself, and obviously we also agree that the operation of the Parliament alone should be less spent, and that the factions should be able to manage and operate from fewer sources. However, the problem is that you do not want to comply with these principles. In certain areas, regulations are dealt with, in other areas interested, and, where appropriate, fidesz oligarchs are always protected and exempted by you, so that in any way you may have to participate in public burdens, including, where appropriate, actors who have, over the past decade, been incredibly stuffed with state orders or supported by their moonyards. It is also problematic how you use abstract resources in this way, really supporting the most difficult families, the Hungarian people, or perhaps investments that again do not start in the interests of the Hungarian people. In this regard, I can say that there are very, very few points of agreement. You've had a statement here in the last few weeks that you're starting to save on yourself. This goes down many times, almost every day. There are some examples that need to be mentioned in particular in this regard. Today's news is that former ministers of state and former ministers of state for the ceased EMMI receive a reward of millions each, despite the fact that most of them currently hold a high level of public administration, whether they are State Secretary or other high. So this proves that in this situation and in a time of severe crisis, when there is a war conflict next door, they are ready to give their own politicians, their own commissaries, millions of rewards at any time, even if it is completely unjustified, because they are not unemployed from these former State Secretarys, but most of them are in the position of State Secretary. But it was also apparent that, in the middle of a crisis, a provision was brought in to abolish the payment ceiling of the State Secretarys, your State Secretarys and Ministers, and gave the Prime Minister the opportunity to raise these salaries to the stars; not to mention that the Prime Minister's salary was doubled. But you can see that you are increasing the weight of the government apparatus from one cycle to the next. 14 ministers, 67 State Secretarys and 108 Deputy State Secretarys, we can say that this is a record in all respects. You haven't spent as much money on government as you have in a time of crisis, when there's actually a livelihood crisis and an incredible inflation, how much you spend on yourself at this time of year. To give you another example: the budget of the Presidential Office will increase from HUF 3.5 billion last year to HUF 5.8 billion. So you can see that you spend a lot more on politics than you did in the last cycle, and you spend a lot more than you did in cycles. So you immediately failed your lying claim to start saving on yourself, that's not true. We have seen how you have thought to implement so-called economic protection in the wake of the economic crisis caused by Covid. One of their first measures was that the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which you have encrypted and implemented and implemented in accordance with Chinese great authority interests, was spent on abstract funds, such as funds taken from local authorities, and this encrypted project was called economic development, while we know precisely that 175 thousand new Hungarian jobs have been sacrificed in order to implement this project. But it is also an exclusive example of common public burdens, as you understand it, that when the most severe austerity and crisis took place, you gave Lőrinc Mészáros's hotel chain a grant of 18 billion dollars, while Lőrinc Mészáros took dividends from his own construction companies at a level of 10 billion. So, even at such a difficult time, you maintain the enrichment of your own oligarchs. You can see now, if you look at next year's budget, look at the projects running now and your spending, then you can see that there is no mention of supporting the most difficult families, or spending on important tasks that determine the everyday lives of Hungarian people. We do not see, where appropriate, the resources needed to maintain the water utility sector. There has been a lack of funding in the budget for the wage development of various law enforcement organisations, which has been behind late proposals for many years. In general, we can say that people in the public sector are humiliatingly low earning money, and you have no intention of earmarking budget resources for their wage development and decent wages. But likewise, when we present proposals that would help, let's say, sustainability issues in the same way as job creation, for example, to create a 300 billion-dollar building energy modernisation fund that could modernise more than 100,000 homes a year, they would not support this either. So, unfortunately, we can say that we can agree that everyone must participate in these public burdens, but at the same time you do not enforce this and exempt politics and their own moonyards. At that time, moving to the point of debate that perhaps most has been said here today, the transformation of the system of declarations of assets, as you have said: the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the system of declarations of assets is not being transformed here, but is being drawn up and eliminated. So, in 2022, you feel that the time has come to launch a system of declarations of assets. What you are setting as an example in the European Parliament is some kind of statement of financial interest that needs to be made in addition to many other statements, but there is no obligation to declare assets. There has been so far in Hungary, bleeding from many wounds, but so far there has been an obligation to declare assets. You will eliminate this and try to replace it as a kind of political reference with one of the otherwise completely wrong and incomplete reporting obligations of the European Parliament. They are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about why they are leading the system of declarations of property in Hungary, and why they are abolishing it. By the way, after 2010, I understand that the only faction that has not only always made its declarations of assets, but that we have made it public continuously, we have made the declarations of property of the spouses and family members, and every year we have made our proposals on how we consider it important to tighten up these obligations of declaration of assets, so that citizens can actually have a chance to monitor the change in the financial situation of the elected Members in different political roles, where appropriate, and thus the propertyisation. You would not only improve the system, which is bleeding from a lot of wounds, but simply lead it out, abolish the obligation to make a declaration of assets. They will also achieve that the propertyisation of people working in Parliament or in other positions, otherwise subject to a declaration of assets obligation or subject to such an obligation, will simply not be monitored after these changes, because how else could it be possible to follow the change in the financial situation of the Members who have just been elected, so that if you change it on the move, after an election, you will lead to the creation of the means of making a declaration. That's pretty amazing. Here, as a question, Mr Harghitai spoke in great detail about the system of various gifts. Which, by the way, has been a personal example of his experience in various meetings, or in a village of such courtesy, I can share, so it really is a lifelike example. At the same time, for example, Minister Péter Szijjártó attended an amazing, unspeakably expensive yacht on a holiday he reported as a private vacation. At the same time, it was the yacht of an economic operator whose vast astronomical wealth largely comes from government orders. So I would specifically ask Mr Harghitai whether spending his free time on the yacht of a billionaire economic operator, say, as a minister, and this will be made public, is this a gift? So, for a jam, for example, you're gonna have to write down a yacht holiday like this in a property statement? Or it has been mentioned here that if a person travels on private planes of different oligarchs, it is considered a gift, so it will be included in these so-called declarations of interest or declarations of property, which, by the way, may be worth hundreds of millions. [[12.30]] So you're far from exhausting that category, hundreds of millions of one of these... [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] No, if, overall, a person flies with private jets during a cycle on various yacht trips, it is an amazing item. I ask the Member, Mr Harghitai, that such yacht vacations, flights, and the rest of their careers will have to report to the various political players, so this will be part of this regulation. I'd like to talk to you about a few more things. He's not here... he's here, by the way, Congressman Róbert Zsigó. [[Róbert Zsigo nods.]] As speaker of the Fidesz faction, as lead speaker, you made some references to my party, allow me to respond briefly, and you spoke very strongly about the authority of the Parliament. Here we just had a speech from the government benches, which sort of sounded like you guys were just here for the money. I think that it is unworthy that, even if we are debating in this style, even if these are done on the basis of such statements, but I think that from 2010, I am a Member of Parliament, but starting in 2018, the LMP faction and the LMP have always demonstrated that we honor the dignity of the Parliament, we do not come here for pay, but we come here to work. We are convinced that we are actively involved in the work of the National Assembly, which is what we are doing now for the benefit of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian nation, so we are doing so, and from 2018 onwards, following the way in which I have been actively working as a local government representative for two cycles before, I am doing this now, so I do not feel worthy of this kind of expression. Nor do I feel worthy that if, in relation to the authority of the Parliament, let us say, the Fidesz faction does not speak of Members who, if necessary, do not make any speeches through cycles, make one or a few motions, they simply do not participate spectacularly in the work of the Parliament, but actually take their salary. I do not know that Minister Antal Rogán, Member, has already spoken in this term, but I do know that he has not had an opinion on anything in about eight or nine years, so he has not spoken at Parliament's plenary session for seven or eight years. Is that not against the authority of the Parliament, honourable Member? Or does it not violate the authority of the Parliament when we give respect to you, we give respect to the ministers of state, we ask questions in order to inform the Hungarian voters, and you spectacularly ignore the question, take out some, I don't know, many places hidden paper, and read out a completely inappropriate propaganda text written by someone, and even the most basic effort to respond to Members at some level? Or is it not the perfect disregard for the dignity of the Parliament that I formally submit a written question, specifically written down, giving respect to the targeted minister, what information I would like to know, and a completely inappropriate, irrelevant, if appropriate, Gyurcsányó, or, I don't know, some kind of fidesz propaganda-speaking text? Doesn't that violate the dignity of the Parliament? I ask my honourable pro-government fellow Members that they do not feel that the emptiness of the Parliament has gone in this direction very, very much, so they should not be introducing regulations that will help honourable Members to do their job, really go to work in Parliament, and really comply with their own legal obligations, for example, by the way, with ministers who are obliged to answer the questions of their representatives. I completely miss the effort to do that. And one more thing, Mr. Zsigoo, when you were talking about the LMP. You have already mentioned, my fellow Members, that not three months, by the way, that you have mistakenly said, Mr Brenner Koloman, but that about a year and a half before the election, so at some point at the end of 2020, you have made a provision to make a national list, not by making 27 individual candidates, but perhaps by changing this rule to 71. So you knew precisely that the opposition parties wanted to make joint candidates, and you made such a decision based on your own technical considerations, so that you could only do so if you started on a common list. So, basically, you made a decision to make a common list, and then, on the basis of the faction financing system that you have previously imposed, you say that this is a misuse of opposition factions. Well, that's unthinkable and completely unrealistic, what you're talking about. And one more reference, Your Honour. There was a kind of agreement between the six parties, which was part of the fact that the LMP also had the guarantee of forming a faction, in exchange for LMP giving up a lot of things, such as starting in individual districts, so it simply doesn't correspond to reality! That our faction depended on the good intentions of one party or another, or that they would have lent us a mandate. No, there are five representatives of LMP in the LMP fraction and I will continue in a later comment. Thank you for the President's patience. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 30 minutes!]]
u2022-06-28-62	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-63	Danke sehr! Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir, die Meinung unseres Ausschusses über die Änderung des Gesetzes über dem Parlament und bestimmter damit zusammenhängender Gesetze mit Nummer T/369 zum Ausdruck zu bringen. Madam President, Dear House, Allow me to express our committee's opinion on Parliament's 2012 XXXVI. Act T/369 amending Act T/369 and certain related laws of the Bill No. 1 and its parts concerning nationalities. This proposal for an amendment is, of course, directly or indirectly affecting national minority advocates and nationality representatives in several places, of which I would like to highlight five paragraphs. First, the 13th. §2 which states that the 2012 XXXVI. on the National Assembly Act 5. The following point (i) is added to paragraph 1 of the Parliamentary Decree: [[hereinafter referred to as "the Rules of Procedure']] in the case laid down, the representative and the minority spokesperson shall contribute [[hereinafter referred to as "the Spokesman']] in the control of his instrument of oath. This amendment to point (i) was necessary because the legislation in force does not cover the oath of the minority advocate and the verification of his oath document. On the basis of practical experience, the amendment of the bill and the regulations of the resolution will install the task to the notaries of the Parliament. Accordingly, the instrument of oath of Members not taking an oath at the inaugural meeting will also be verified. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities agrees, of course, with this addition. At the same time, if we are already at the oath, I would like to point out that the provisions on certain house rules are set out in Article 10/2014. [[ANNEX II 24.]] Parliamentary resolution 10. § (3):. Members of the national minority and those of the national minority representative take an oath without pre-reading. The oath in the language of nationality is a legitimate demand expected and arising from the representative of nationality, as he will be placed on the electoral list of his nationality in the National Assembly. In practice, while 198 Members say the text of the oath in Hungarian, one or two ethnic representatives should say the text of the oath in ethnic language at the same time. I myself have experienced this situation twice, and believe me, this is almost unreal and also results in a rather hurtful situation, even though the oath should be one of the most beautiful, uplifting moments of the four-year term for the representatives of the national minority. That is why I propose and ask for consideration from this House, so that the representatives of the national minority can say their oath here in the Parliament, in the language of nationality, without a pre-reading by their notaries, following the oath in the Hungarian language. [[12.40]] This should not cause any real difficulties, since from the 13 indigenous nationalities it is possible for the Roma and German nationalities to become members of the Clan Parliament, even mathematically, of up to 2 nationalities. An oath in one or two ethnic languages is given one or two minutes every four years. This would also be an occasion, perhaps, where, as I have been saying for years in the debate on the drafts of budgetary law, quoting Johann Wolfgang von Goethe - "The tolerance can only mark a temporary state that should lead to recognition. Accepting in itself is an insult. In this way, the majority of Hungarian society can also prove the recognition of nationalities, the real fact of our state-making existence under the Fundamental Law. Secondly, the bill 19th. I would like to point out that. XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly Law 40. The following paragraph 3a is added to Article 3a of the Acting Committee and the Standing Committee of the Standing Committees and the Legislative Committee: The representative who has obtained a mandate from the national minority list may take part, without a separate decision, in the discussion of the item on the interests and rights of nationalities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The proposal aims at allowing a representative who has obtained a mandate from the national minority list to attend the meetings of the permanent committees and the Legislative Committee under the same conditions as the minority advocate. This proposal, which provides for additional rights and opportunities, can significantly simplify the work of the committee of representatives who have obtained a mandate from the national minority list. Thirdly, the bill is 20. I would like to point out that the 2012 XXXVI. Law 42. § 1 shall be replaced by the following:. The representative who has obtained a mandate from the national minority list shall be entitled, in addition to the possibility granted by the House Committee to independent Members, to say one further interpellation per ordinary session concerning the interests and rights of nationalities, which may be discussed at a meeting where the interpellation submitted by an independent representative is not discussed. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In this key sentence, the only amendment compared to the legislation currently in force is that the name of the national minority representative has been changed from the nationality list to the representative who has obtained the mandate. The intention to amend would obviously serve to clarify the names and definitions, but it still does not generate this issue, since the Parliamentary Act and the House Rule of Decisions use, on the one hand, the term "member" belonging to the nationality: a representative from a non-nationality list, but from an individual district or party list to a parliament, who otherwise openly undertakes to belong to an indigenous nationality in Hungary, and, on the other hand, also uses the names of the representative of the nationality representative and the representative of the nationality list. Obviously, the latter two are a short but clear version of the same term as the representative who obtained a mandate from the national minority list. This paragraph opens a similar question of interpretation with regard to advocates, as it does with regard to nationality representatives. Because it's the 22nd. § 3 (4) and [[4.a]] In paragraphs 4, 4 and 4 (a), leaving the nationality indicator is in a context in which the representative who obtained a mandate from the national minority list and the advocate for ethnicity, which is clearly a minority list, can only obtain a mandate, and therefore, in this context, like the representative, the bill feels unnecessary to use the nationality indicator. 12th Parliamentary Act. § and in particular Article 29. § and 29/A. This contradiction also exists between the provisions of the Article 12, since the title of Chapter 12 refers in itself to the word "nationality" and, at the same time, in the two paragraphs referred to, only to a speaker. If my calculations are correct, the name "speaker" appears only 22 times in the law. I think that it would be clearer, clearer, clearer to use a uniform definition of nationality. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: A new declaration of property within the meaning of § 5 of the Act would be introduced for Members of Parliament and for national minority advocates. This adaptation to European standards is accepted and supported by our committee. Finally, 42. § 29/A. §. In paragraph 6 of the first subparagraph, the following definitions shall apply: The text of the sub-title is replaced by the entries "18 and 18/A'. a text is inserted. Like Members of Parliament, it is appropriate to include minority advocates in Annex 18/A. Disciplinary and legal rules for committee meetings under Chapter 1. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities also agrees with this amendment. Mr President, Dear House, Dear tableds, To conclude, we respectfully ask those who have submitted the bill to consider our proposal, our request and to ensure that the legislation is in place, both for the individual oath of the national minority and for the national minority advocate. In view of all this, overall, I can say that T/369. XXXVI of 2012 on the Parliament The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities supports and proposes to adopt a bill amending law and certain related laws. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause.]]
u2022-06-28-64	Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-65	Thank you very much. Madam President, I would like to respond with a few words to my fellow Members. First of all, while you're here, Lóránt László Keresztes, who said that they had borrowed a DK mandate for sharing and forming a faction because of how much LMP had given up before and did not start in individual districts. Well, honourable Member, you were beaten in the primary by your fellows in the individual districts, and then the voters said you didn't need so many LMPs in Parliament, honourable Members. That's why the voters gave their verdict, and that's why you had to resort to a ruse to borrow a mandate from DK to have a faction. I would like to point out to Mr András Jámbor that, although he was talking about parliamentary salary cuts and budget cuts, let us remember that a few months ago he was the one who said in the campaign that he only wanted to be a notary of the Parliament because he had a huge amount of money. This was the attitude of András Jámbor to the issue and the parliamentary mandate. I would like to point out to Mr President Novak that the fact that parliamentary support can be handed over to parties is not mandatory, honourable Member. If you'd like to hire experts, discuss it with your group leader. You have said this question here as if it were mandatory for anyone and mandatory for the factions to do so. Everyone should, at their own discretion, manage the faction frame correctly and well, in accordance with the law. And I would ask Miklós Hajnal that if he considers the European Parliament's system of declaration to be so bad and finds it weak and opaque, then how is it that Katalin Czech and Anna Donáth have all the time in Brussels to report Hungary daily to Jourova to produce reports condemning all Hungary, but why have they not spoken out because of the European Parliament's system of declarations that they do not like it. [[12.50]] Interestingly, your representatives have in no way criticised the EP's declaration of assets, so we believe that if it is good for the Germans, if it is good for the European Parliament, it will be good for us too. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-66	Our next two-minute speech is Congressman László Keresztes, LMP. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-67	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would only react very briefly to Congressman Nacsa. I think it is relatively bold that a KDNP representative stands up here in Parliament and talks about which party has the right or the legitimacy to form a faction, which does not. The KDNP has not started independently in the election since human memory, its social support is hardly visible, it cannot be detected; the LMP has entered the National Assembly three times on its own. So I think that we can criticize each other in a lot of ways, but I think that KDNP should wisely show restraint on a matter like this. Honourable Congressman, What you said here, what you said about forming the LMP faction, it's not real information. Obviously, you will spread propaganda, you will attack the LMP, and we will continue our work. We would like you to be a little more open to such political blade changes, in addition to the proposals we are presenting. I very much hope that you feel that, in such a difficult situation, we have a shared responsibility to strengthen the dignity and authority of Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-68	There's still a two-minute comment. Robert Zsigo, representative of Fidesz, please.
u2022-06-28-69	Thank you very much, Madam President. I didn't want to comment, but since Mr. Crusades spoke to me by name, I thought I'd give you a few thoughts. The faction leader said that the LMP faction doesn't come for money, and they've been coming here to work since 2010. I have to tell you, as I look around here, that, let alone you don't come in for money, you don't come in for money, because none of your representatives are sitting there, and you're not even sitting here when you've been giving lectures. So I'm forced to tell you what I said, and I quote. I find it unfair that the left side, after its historic defeat on 3 April, divides itself into smaller parties for financial reasons. In view of this, a self-sacrifice gesture by the Democratic Coalition led by Gyurcsány is also understandable when a list of representatives handed over a mandate to LMP to form an independent faction. In parentheses, I note that who would have thought that the survival of a parliamentary group of the party, which announced the change in its name, would depend on the favors of the Prime Minister who had previously brought our country to the brink of bankruptcy. It also shows that if it is up to you, there will never be another policy on the left. That's what I said, Mr. Group Leader, I'm holding on to that right now. You're playing tricks, and we want to stop this trick, because we couldn't allow it in peacetime, and in wartime, we shouldn't allow it at all. We need to protect families, pensioners, jobs, and we need to keep the cost reduction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-70	Dear Parliament, Next will be the further speeches by the Members; next will be Mr Lóránt Keresztes. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Congressman, I was here in the House building, watching your speech as a speaker on internal television, and I reacted on that basis. What you quoted, by the way, was indeed a literal repetition of what you said in your speaker's speech. There are several factually false statements here that, after the election, the opposition has divided itself into parties. I don't know what you mean by the fact that the opposition has divided itself into parties. As you have said, you have already decided that if opposition parties want to make joint candidates, the only way they can do that is if they run on a common list. Perhaps in December 2020 your proposal was here before the House, which was decided by you, and in practice you have decided that parties should run on a common list if they want to start joint candidates if they want to coordinate a constituency. Obviously, you think that the dignity of the Parliament should include you constantly claiming untruths, this is a mantra, and this is how you try to discredit opposition parties and, let's say, withdraw from debates on policy issues, which are, let's say, specifically, about people's livelihoods or important public services in people's everyday lives. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] You also did not answer the questions that I said to the Secretary of State during the budgetary debate. In particular, aside from party policy, I have actually brought figures, by the way, most of the figures came from various professional interest groups, not from opposition experts, but from what basic public services are, which you do not support at the same time at the same time at the level of maintenance. In fact, we have listed the restrictions imposed on local governments, and we have also listed those cases, where appropriate, in law enforcement agencies, police officers, firefighters. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: What does that have to do with you?]] [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: What does that have to do with you?]] where there is a specific threat of tragedy... (Dr. Zoltán Kovács: What does that have to do with it?) Honourable Congressman, I strongly suggest that you press the button, you know, and then the Speaker will speak to you, and then you will have an opportunity. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Topic!]] [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Topic!]] in an open debate, in addition to the fact that I now have the floor, honourable Member... (Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Discussion!) So this is to keep the dignity of the Parliament, Congressman, that I have the floor. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Let's get to the point.]] [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Topic!]] in an open debate, in addition to the fact that I now have the floor, honourable Member... (Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Discussion!) So this is to keep the dignity of the Parliament, Congressman, that I have the floor (Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Let's get to the point.) You're constantly talking about it, and instead of pressing the button and expressing your opinion openly, instead of talking into it. (Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Discussion!) I think, Mr Group Leader, such cases also show that it would be a bit more necessary to amend Parliamentary law or house rules in a different way, so that Parliament's parliamentary work can be shifted a little bit more in order to really work in the interests of the people in such a debate with greater efficiency. I just did not have time to speak, and I would like to say one more thing, which is the general debate... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács' intervention:]] Mr. Congressman, do you see that? You rarely speak to him, there are such buttons, if you press this, if you press the normal speech, then the President will give you the opportunity not to just yell at him, but to speak, to strap on the microphone, and to speak at Parliament's plenary session, and I will also have the opportunity to answer you if there is any relevant information in what you say. It's just, you know, it's not the way to argue in Parliament that you yell at me when you don't have the floor. I'd like to mention one more thing. A section of the law specifically refers to the fact that Mr Hadházy, who announced in advance that he would not attend the Parliament's inaugural session, had then repeatedly indicated that he would take the oath, but did not put his oath on the agenda, that, in particular, by limiting the rights of his representatives, this amendment before us completely precludes him from exercising these rights. Now, let me give you my opinion on this. I am one of those Members, and this is also typical of my fellow political groups, who think that, regardless of whether someone is pro-government or opposition, knowing that Parliamentary work is very diverse, so it is not just about parliamentary debates, we must also do this part with honor and honour. So we think that, in addition to having a lot of responsibilities for a Member of Parliament, we must come to Parliament, here in the various debates we must state our opinion, obviously we must draw attention to problems, especially if we are opposition representatives, then obviously our role has been determined. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: After the wedding!]] That's right! and must also take part in the votes. So what I think is that a Member is not doing the right thing, and I am thinking here of Mr Hadházy's concrete parliamentary activity in the previous term, so to speak, [[Lajos Kósa: Hadházy was LMP!]] That if there's a two-thirds majority here, he won't be involved in the parliamentary work. I believe that it is also the duty of an opposition representative to participate in this work, in particular in the debates of the Parliament and in the votes. By the way, I would add that this is particularly relevant for a Member who has been elected in an individual area. Ákos Hadházy was elected in an individual district, and I think it is important or particularly important that he participates in the parliamentary work, vote, live with motions, and that, by the way, the work he is doing is very honorable. So this is, say, a difference of opinion between Ákos Hadházy and me. At the same time, I find it totally unacceptable that you do not allow him to come to Parliament after such a political move and take the oath and use the powers of his representatives, which, by the way, was authorized by the people of Zugló. In particular, it is not acceptable for you to subsequently tighten up those rules or, I do not know, amend the rules that determine how, where appropriate, you can use the powers of your representatives in your work outside Parliament. I think it's very, very unacceptable. Not to mention that you may remember, fellow Members and fellow members of the Government, that there was indeed a time when you boycotted the work of the Parliament, practically only your group leader at that time was involved in the parliamentary work. I don't think you're anyone [[Novak Előd: 2006!]] It would have restricted the duties of your other representatives at the time. So I think you did the wrong thing when you were in opposition and you didn't take part in Parliament's work, so you only came in for the money, as my honourable fellow Member has just said. [[Robert Szigó: That's not true!]] I think that everyone should be involved in Parliament's work. Where appropriate, who is taking symbolic steps in a parliamentary election campaign, if I remember correctly, was on the common list of Fidesz or Fidesz-KDNP, who is a Member of the European Parliament, and who was included in the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary list, so that, I suppose, there was no discussion that he wished to continue his work as a European representative. [[13.00]] So you had such symbolic political steps, such a symbolic nomination on the list, behind which we knew exactly that there was a political intention, a message, obviously we saw a party list, but there was no question that he would not take the oath, that such a character would not take his mandate. So I think that even hypocrite, in addition to unacceptable restrictions on the work of a Member in this way, I repeat, even if, let us say, I do not agree with the political instrument that Ákos Hadházy has used. I add, and that is the most important thing I think is that you ignore or ignore the citizens' decision who have elected Ákos Hadházy, by the way. So I think it is unacceptable in itself, in addition to the fact that there are many elements in this proposal, and the most important and damaging element is the complete abolition of the obligation to declare assets, which makes this bill unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2022-06-28-72	We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, who came forward in two minutes. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-28-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Sic!]] Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, I thought he was a serious man, a serious politician, and I am now a little surprised by his speech. Allow me to quote two of your claims. One of them is that he is trying to point to us, like if we could do it, or if we had decided that you, all the way to the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány, had joined forces in the last parliamentary elections, and were still unable to win. The other statement was that we were not involved in professional debates about people living better, for example, about raising the wages of firefighters, if I remember correctly. Not going into this part of the debate in detail, let me just ask you a rhetorical question: could you count for me since 2010 the proposals submitted by the Fidesz-KDNP or the Fidesz government on what wage increases we give in different forms, such as firefighters, law enforcement workers, educators, health workers and so on, or how many bills have we managed to press a very button on how much more money we give to the given area? I am also curious to see which button can be pressed in the current budget law. Pressing the yes button will allow people to receive more money and more money for families in different areas of health, education policy and the rest. So I would like to conclude my speech, my comment, with which I began to say that it is incomprehensible, Mr Member, or Mr Group leader, which you have brought up here, and you have tried to accuse Fidesz. I think you should look in your ranks for a reason why you stand so shamefully. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-28-74	Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member LMP, also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Tomorrow, the Committee on Sustainable Development will meet, and it is the honour and responsibility that I am the chairman of this committee, and I intend to discuss all the amendments individually, and it seems that this will be supported by the Fidesz majority in the Committee, and we will discuss them in substance. In many committees, we find that the vote on opposition proposals takes place separately with the push of a button. So there are 200 opposition proposals, and you're gonna wipe that out without debate. I am very curious about the outcome of this debate tomorrow, and will, for example, come up with a proposal for an amendment to the opposition, a proposal for an LMP that is supported by the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP. I do not remember such a proposal in the last parliamentary term. We have now tabled an amendment of around 160, and I don't really remember yet, obviously we don't know what your voting behaviour will be, but I don't remember a budget amendment that you either would have voted in favour of, so it wasn't so, or you would have said you would have explained why you wouldn't do it. I'm not saying I never said that, and I've been following up on Parliament's debates since 2010, and even if I wasn't here, we've never said that there were no correct steps by the Fidesz-KDNP government. In fact, many times the political behaviour of the LMP has been so supportive that, in some cases, it has triggered, say, the attack and political attack of opposition parties, because we have always been guided by the fact that the proposals that are right are, in our belief, for the benefit of the Hungarian people, we support them regardless of which side or political party they are presented. Well, that's not true of you, honourable Member. I've been working here for a term, the last term as an opposition representative, and I've had two motions I don't know of the thousand you voted for. One of them, and I am very proud of this, is that I have even put forward a proposal as a rapporteur, a five-party proposal, support for the European citizens' initiative for national regions, and an attempt to bring back your settlement policy, which, by the way, is not permitted by the majority of governments in our amending proposal. I think that this should be considered, Madam honourable Member: is it true that two out of a thousand proposals were eligible? Which side is more constructive, Fidesz or LMP? Thank you very much, Madam President.
u2022-06-28-76	Member László Tasó, Fidesz, also submitted a two-minute comment. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-28-77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, The only reason I wanted to tell you that your memory was wrong, Mr. Keresztes, is because after 2006, the Fidesz faction did not work after the speeches before the agenda, because it was a liar named Ferenc Gyurcsány, who should have answered, and that is why we did not come in, but we also participated in the work on 164 in 2006. So we weren't in there at the time, so let's put it in its place, so that the record doesn't keep saying that it stops here and doesn't have any criticism. And the other is just a short sentence that if we talk about authority and the dignity of this House, well, the representative ladies and gentlemen who fight with the whistle, the drum and the violin of reeds, who have landed a few attractions here in the last few years, they have undermined the authority of this House, and if you think that any action needs to be taken, I will be happy to make your partner tougher and clearer that this country's house is and should be treated as such. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-28-78	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes applied for a normal comment. Here you go, Congressman. [[Lajos Kósa: Let's hear the words. But get to the point, Congressman.]]
u2022-06-28-79	I do not want to abuse the patience of the Parliament, I will be very, very brief. [[Lajos Kósa: Don't be short. Let's make it a long one.]] Congressman's request is an order. I can talk long, but that's not my goal anyway. On several occasions in the last few years, I have indicated in my speeches that this was also the case for my group, and we do not regard it as a proper policy if we are to live with such radical or uncompromising means as the dignity of the Parliament, which really do not belong here in the walls of the House. But I would add that there are cases, so when, for example, a pro-government faction or an alliance of factions betrays national interests, then there is room for protesting with all force and means. So there has been such an example, if any, in the case of the land law, you will remember it, fellow Members, so you have a field, and I would add, fellow Members, that if we are talking about the traditions of Parliament, then you know precisely that Parliamentarism has always been a part of it, and you may know that this can be a legitimate instrument. However, ladies and gentlemen, I think that it is possible to criticize, say, the tone of who is using what means, the tone in which they speak, but what content and what claims they make, I also think that it is right and must be criticised. So when, for example, one of the Fidesz MEPs said during the coronal virus epidemic, when our faction really tried with maximum constructivity to the extraordinary situation that we took the side of the epidemic, we took the side of the virus, I think that was one of the most undecided manifestations; but that is not the point, but I have only now obviously responded to the suggestions. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen in many cases that the use of Members' rights has been restricted, and here the house rules have been amended to limit the possibility of speaking, so this is a tendency for you to constantly reduce the possibilities of parliamentary politicalisation, while we are being called into account why we do not use it in a different way. I think that it is unworthy in itself to reduce the scope of parliamentary politics. I very much hope that we all believe in parliamentary democracy, and we all consider it important to function in Parliament, regardless of whether we disagree on a lot of issues, but we must recognise that you are constantly restricting this opportunity. But what I have just talked about in my keynote speeches is that it has reached quite amazing levels of disregard for requests from State Secretarys, ministries, ministers, and questions, so how much the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example, can afford to ask 14 concrete questions about the Paks II project, and I will be combined with an answer in two weeks, which is a completely meaningless propaganda text, and two points of propaganda were the answer. [[13.10]] So the answer to a specific question I asked specifically in accordance with the house rules was a complete blank. However, this trend was also characteristic of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology in such a way that, at the hearing of Minister Palkovic, I drew his attention to this, that he had any intention of answering the questions of his representatives, in accordance with his duty as described in the laws. And my representatives' questions weren't spat on party politics, they weren't full of embarrassing voices, they were specific questions. And we have come to the point, Mr Kósa, that in any such speech there is no requirement, when, let us say, there is an outside of the agenda to have the answer on the subject. We have seen from the Deputy Minister here that she has selected a pre-written text from a huge bundle of paper on the question of one of my fellow political groups and had nothing to do with what was on the question. So it didn't even appear that, with some flexibility, it's obviously not always possible to anticipate an immediate question of exactly what it's about, at least try to smuggle some kind of response into political voices. So there is any intention, Mr. Group leader, that this kind of emptiness of the Parliament is either regulated from the side of the Parliament or from the direction of the members of the government in some way, so that no member of the government, a secretary of state, can do so much to ignore Members; is there such a intention? Or is there any intention that your representatives might try to stimulate activity? I mentioned Antal Rogán as an example, while my colleagues wrote here that, yes, in 2015, or I don't know when was the last time Antal Rogán spoke as a representative that this was worthy, for example, of the authority of the Parliament, that a Member has not spoken to him since 2015? Is that what you want, fellow Members? Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-80	I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-81	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, I do not particularly consider the method of discussion to be fortunate in extracting or proving extreme examples from the 32-year history of Hungarian parliamentarianism, because it is possible to prove anything and the opposite on this basis. I'm just giving you an example. There is a fellow Member who initiated an extraordinary meeting of Parliament, presented a subject himself and did not come to the hearing. We were sitting here, and he wasn't in Szabó Timea. Now, how do you interpret that? But there was also an example of someone in the parliamentary debate choosing a method of substance, objective and forwarding the debate by turning on a siren in Parliament. Obviously, he thought this gesture was extremely important. I'm not talking about anything else right now. So I think it's a bad way to argue. And the truth is that to accuse the ruling parties of evacuating the functioning of Parliament when the opposition is swarming with actions that Ákos Hadházy, who, by the way, had previously been your party partner, if we remember correctly, presented an unspeakable sign about a horse. [[Gergely Arató: He was also your party partner, I'm just saying!]] How fortunate that Congressman Hadházy was expelled from the party! So I think it is completely unnecessary to mention the extremes, and that this is a necessary part of parliamentarism, it is also not worth mentioning, because there is a hole on the platform when an opposition representative shot the Prime Minister. Okay, I've had it before. [[To the Speaker! Nacsa Lárinc: The commies!]] In fact, to mention one of your current allies, there was also an example that a good-looking congressman at a press conference took out a huge jagigan and showed it. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Samurai sword!]] Samurai sword, I'm sorry. [[Noise.]] So what I would think is that we should go back to the question that is, by the way, the house regulation amendment that is in front of us. I would think that in the debate I had already listened to everything that was said in my office, so if there are any new arguments, perhaps they should come up with that. We will consider everything and, of course, we will vote accordingly. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-82	Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. As no one has applied for a speech, the joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Máté Kocsis: Yes. Gergely Arató: Definitely!]] Yeah. I give the floor to the leader of the group, Máté Kocsis. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I would like to respond to some things, or at least at the end of the debate, to what has been said. My first fellow Members of the Government, it is that exactly what we have expected has happened. If left-wing representatives are to be put into the joint, we are faced with a circus of this type, which we have seen here today. The good news is that they probably pick up where they left off, and that gives us a positive outlook for 2026, and we appreciate that. Seriously. I don't know yet, but the debate didn't tell me what made you think you'd lost a bunch of your MEPs, 800 thousand voters, but here you beat the tamtam, that you want an extra $3 billion in this term. How did this math come out for you? What made you think this would work? And I would just like to say to Mr Arató, after four more years, even if we have to work together superficially, which is why I am not going to say what I really think to you right now, and I am not going to say it in that style, but I would have wanted it. But after four deep breaths, here's what I'd like to say to you. When you say that people appointed to the head of national bodies or public institutions are being heard by committees, you will not be represented there, that is because you do not like to delegate to these committees. So it was very wrong of you to say that you cannot send a member to these committees, because this sentence is so precise that you do not send a member to these committees, they do not fill up the seats for you in the committees where these debates take place. That's one of them. You also didn't like to tell the truth when, in an inappropriate manner, you challenged the seating chart that we should also tell you where to sit. That's how it happened, but you and I know that because we were sitting at the same table, our faction director told you that if there is an agreement between the factions, it's also part of where you want to sit. After you did not make a proposal, there was no agreement, so we had to put you somewhere. It's not very sporty, and it's still my polite version. If you wish, Congressman, I am not disqualified from calling this declaration a declaration of income and financial interest. I think it is the right position, as my fellow Members have said here in the debate, that what is appropriate for the members of the European Union Parliament or what is appropriate for the members of the Bundestag is also appropriate in Hungary. By the way, I think that the statement of income and financial interest used in the European Parliament is not bad. It reflects the status of a Member's assets prior to the acquisition of the mandate, as it must also confess and include interim changes. It's not a bad system. Surprisingly, you have begun to criticize a European Parliament, unlike your custom, because we say pretty much anything, it is certainly not good. If we have just said that we are taking over the European Parliament's practice, at least at this point in the debate, we should end our differences, and now suddenly this is no good either. So let's agree that, after you cannot follow your needs, let's just say that if the European Parliament and the Great Germany change their own income and financial interest declaration system, we will be adapting it at the moment. But if we adjust it to anything else, that's what's gonna happen to you. If we had figured out now that we were using the Japanese, Romanian or Swedish method, they would have said exactly what they said today. I still think it is best to follow the example of the EP and Germany in this regard. [[13.20]] I would also like to say to you that the Member has given much thought to democratic relations, that at the moment you are speaking three and a half times as much in front of the agenda as we are. I'd like to point out that we didn't touch the right to speak. There's twice as many of us in Parliament, and you're talking three and a half times as much in front of the agenda. Is that okay? Shouldn't we change that, Congressman? Wouldn't that be fair, democratic? But I'll tell you something else, I have an idea. You were saying that I might not quote you exactly, but the point of what you were saying was that this group support system is embarrassing the opposition and it's not democratic. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not what I said!]] Right now... [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can.]] Yes! [[Gergely Harvester: No!]] I said maybe I didn't quote it literally, but that's the whole point, I remember. I would just like to point out that, to date, taxpayers still pay a lot more than a pro-government representative. This is the system, and it will remain so in the future. But I have a suggestion: if you don't like it, let's even it out. That would be democratic, Congressman. We have amendments. We have tried to take a stand on this issue in such a way that it is not unfair, but if you apply this tone, we are full of ideas linked to the amendment. We're full! Then let's even it out, then let's make every country and country the same for the taxpayers. I understand that's what you suggested. If this democracy is for you to be equal to everyone, then it should be a per capita group support, I wish you a good day, how many seats you have. And speaking of mandates, it is not my place to protect Christian democrats because they can defend themselves, but first of all, the Christian Democratic People's Party is the only historical party in the Hungarian Parliament. This is, of course, not a political advantage, but a state of affairs. Secondly, the Christian Democratic People's Party has nine individual representatives in the Parliament, one for you. They're on the same list as you. You have one mandate in individual districts, the Christian Democrats have nine. Thirdly, and perhaps this is the most important: Fidesz would never have such a social mandate without KDNP. We have two-thirds majority because of KDNP. Unlike you, who have one mandate, not to mention the dungeon called Dialogue, which didn't even exist as much as your party. What goes on is that you have at least once entered the parliament on your own, you have tested yourselves, you have had individual representatives, but in one election in your life you have not yet started independently, you have stuck to the socialists, you have no history, no future or presence, but four years ago, you have formed a faction that the very independent man Mellar was suddenly involved, because there were not enough people, but there were still not enough, so the socialists added a loan komchi, Burány to this team, and so there were five; only to form a faction, Member. Don't tell me that you didn't think it was fair enough, for example, from your point of view, because while you've ever, if ever been in the past, entered the National Assembly in your own right, they never did. What I'm trying to say is that you can comment on KDNP, but KDNP is a supporter, ally, cooperative partner of Fidesz with which we have a large social majority behind us. If we didn't have KDNP, we wouldn't have two thirds, so let's be clear, we wouldn't have such social support, as opposed to the Dialogue or, for example, the structure of this six, where you team up in any form of failure. Let's just split this up. Otherwise, don't be so sure that the KDNP itself won't get into Parliament. Don't be so sure. If we look at the historical roots of the Christian democracy and its social structure, let's just say, who are those who can be regarded as KDNP voters, this would be an 8-12 percent party in Hungary, I'm just saying. Don't bet the KDNP won't make it to the National Assembly. Once again, our alliance is a successful alliance, supported by 3 million 60,000 people, as opposed to yours, who have lost 800,000 voters. But that doesn't belong here right now, so I'm sorry I messed up. Allow me one more thought. After all, the sentence of the day was what we could tie to my colleague, Gregory Arató, that we forced you to make a common list. This is the greatest recognition you've given us in years. We all know that wasn't the case, but I think it was one of the decisive moments in the history of Hungarian politics that it seems that you have joined forces against us because of us. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] The interpretation of this could be an opportunity for further political debate, which I do not propose to conduct here for widespread reasons. Allow me a sentence about Congressman Hadházy. In recent years, Congressman Hadházy has played very cleverly that, having known the rule that if a Member did not participate in the work of Parliament for a year, he would lose his salary, so that Congressman Hadházy always sought that one time a year when he came in, he pressed the button quickly and then ran out of the Chamber and we did not see him again for a year. So he took a salary of approximately 60 million forints. [[The First of Novak: Shame!]] And this time, since all Members are here and take an oath, as this is required by law and due to respect for voters, and everyone acts according to the law, the same Member Hadházy does not come to take an oath because of sickness, accident, not justified absence, but for his own political reasons. (Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat) Replaced by Béla Mihalffy.) How is that our fault? Why don't you tell us what this has to do with us? ! This was the time of the oath. The Parliament is not an organisation where the representatives of Hadházy Ákos can do whatever they want at their own convenience. You know why? 'Cause we're not on our own here. Who cares who we are? We represent people here. Ákos Hadházy happens to represent the Zuglós, and the representative of the Zuglós decided not to represent the Zuglós from his own political convictions. What does that have to do with us? Oh, he's gonna want to tell me when the National Assembly will give him an opportunity to take the oath? That's his problem, but, you know, they didn't really think we had to take that into account. In closing, after we have heard your speeches, which we have only heard through the mediation, there is something personally, let me say that it is clear that they will still beat the table that they have taken your money from you. But it's money that you've never earned. Just like we didn't deserve the 2 billion forints we're losing in this proposal, you don't deserve that 3 billion. Believe me, I know it's a strange thought, but believe me, it's in the best place for people and the Respiracy Fund. Which is why I'm not surprised what happened, and you're going to pick up exactly where you left off. I also know that they won't support it if the taxpayers touch their wallets themselves, which is why I'm not counting on their votes. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I will stand up to the end that, compared to what you have achieved in the election, this is a fair proposal. However, I am asking my fellow members of the Government to support the adoption of the law. Madam President, thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-28-84	Dear Parliament, Congressman László Keresztes applied for a point of order. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-85	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would just like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that I have been given three times in the last long debate that, obviously, in the heat of the debate and out of habit, my fellow Members have thanked Mr President for the floor. I would like to ask my fellow Members to honor the President by paying a little more attention to this. [[Máté Kocsis: I said Madam President! Nacsa Lawrence: That's what I said!]] Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-86	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your attention. This did not concern Mr Group Leader, but it did happen three times in the course of the debate. Since I didn't undergo non-transmutation surgery, the name "President" is correct. I would also like to inform you that it is possible to submit amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the 11th amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary will follow until the closure. Presentation by Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; István Simicskó, KDNP; István Hollik, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; László Pósán, Fidesz, and Lajos Kósa, Fidesz, representatives T/361. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal is held as a minority item by the Parliament. The authors indicated that two speakers had presented the opening statement. First, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2022-06-28-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, The basic legislative amendment proposal before us contains very important issues, since in 2024 there will be two important elections in Hungary: one is the European Parliament elections and the other is the local elections. The preparation for this obviously also makes the legislator, the government and everyone wonder how to rationalise, how to hold both elections one day, and how to hold a number of international examples, looking through European examples, the provincial elections in many German provinces are held at the same time as the elections to the European Parliament, so there are plenty of international examples of how to resolve the problem of not having to go through two campaigns and making the elections cost-effective for all parties and all starters. It is perfectly reasonable and logical to amend the basic law before us, which, on the basis of such considerations, would allow these two important choices to take place on the same day. It is not a problem, since the amendment of the Fundamental Law also states that it also settles the detailed rules on how the local elections, which are customary and due to take place in the autumn, including the election of mayors, could happen in the spring, together with the elections to the European Parliament, and the new mayor and the new body of representatives will obviously take office in the municipalities from October. It is essential, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a cost-effective solution, and I would also like to refer to this, since it will save about HUF 10 billion. In such a global political and global economy situation, when there is a war going on in our neighbourhood, and it is not possible to know exactly what further negative effects this will have on the economy of all nations, so it is important to pay attention to the costs, so it is perfectly reasonable and logical to present the proposal. I would briefly argue that we have tabled this proposal to Parliament, and I would ask Members of Parliament to consider it and, of course, support the eleventh amendment to the Fundamental Law. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-88	I now give the floor to Mr László Pósán, who also spoke as rapporteur for the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-89	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The point of the eleventh amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the proposal before the National Assembly, is to bring back the values of the history of Hungarian statehood, autonomy and national freedom to public life and to our legal system by reviving old names. The restoration of the use of the words of the county and the Archbishop serves to ensure that the thousand-year-old Hungarian statehood also expresses and continues to live in this form, because both our words and their reports are the same age as the existence of our country. Of course, over hundreds of years, the contents of the words of the county and the Archbishop have undergone many changes. It was a royal county, a noble county, and a bourgeois county from April 1848. The county as the basic territorial unit of the Hungarian administration existed until 1949. The Communist dictatorship, who wanted to wipe out the past, declared by abolishing this term that it was not interested in the past of the nation, the associated culture and identity, the independence of Hungary, and rejects all the value of a thousand years. In 1990, the first democratically elected right-wing government with national and civil values attempted to re-establish the name of the county, but the post-communist forces and the SDS serving global interests prevented this. The SZDSZ not only acted against the old name, but also tried to eliminate the county itself. Hungarian history shows that the existence of the county often hurt the eyes of foreign powers. The Habsburgs began to take action against the county, the Moskovites serving the Soviets continued, and the neomarxist left who bowed to the West made it a program. Today, the idea of abolishing the past has become a culture of oblivion, so strengthening the values of the national past, its contents, its use of words, its linguistic expressions, or the initiatives aimed at this result in violent opposition and visceral rejection on the left. It is a fact that the county has a thousand years of history, a symbol of sovereignty, constitutional arrangement, national freedom, and a cradle of civil national culture from the time of reform. After the settlement, he became not only an important cornerstone of nation building, but also a promoter and shaper of local identity and belonging. In political terms, the countys were often the main centers of resistance to foreign imperial efforts that ignored Hungarian interests and thus played an important role in the preservation of our historic constitution. ANNEX II For example, in 1790 Joseph withdrew his decrees because of the opposition of the county. Following the defeat of the 1848-49 Revolution and the War of Independence, the Hungarian resistance continued in the framework of the county of the county against the various forms of absolutism. Ferenc Deák, the sage of the homeland, said in his speech on the Lower Table on 16 June 1835 that the county is a treasure with which the freest nations of Europe cannot boast. .......................................................................................................................................... These municopies stand guard for our constitution with indestructible moral power, which is where the nation's rights come from. At the time of the conciliation negotiations, in March 1866 Hungary called the county one of the most beautiful pearls of its constitution. According to István Széchenyi, the county is the salvation of our country. The 16th Law of 1848 considered the County organization a protective bulwark of constitutionality, but it was placed on the basis of popular representation, i.e. a civil foundation. By replacing the name of the county with the name of the county, according to the proposed amendment, the mandate of the government is to become a high-level minister, the powers laid down in the legislation remain unchanged and the amendment is therefore of a terminological nature. At the same time, expressions closely linked to the thousand-year-old Hungarian statehood can strengthen national identity. A number of international examples demonstrate that traditionalism at the level of official designations contributes to strengthening the sense of belonging, expressing national self-determination. In Europe, there are examples of historical terms and designations being used in modern public administrations. In England, for example, historical counties were replaced in 1889 by so-called administrative counties, but in their name they also kept the old names and terms, just as smaller territorial units, which are called Borough, which is basically a castle and a fortitude, and also recalls in the name of a number of settlements. In Norway, from the Kalamari Union, Annex XIV is replaced by the following: From the end of the century until 1919, the units of the territorial administration were called Amt. After that, however, the Norwegians returned an even older name, one that was used in the Viking times and the Middle Ages, and that is the Flyke term, and still means the county. Vojvodina in Poland is also of medieval origin, headed by a Vojvodina appointed by the central government. In the Czech Republic, the current territorial structure has been in place since 2000 and its name, Kraj, which is also an administrative unit that has existed since the Middle Ages. The leaders of the eight counties of Slovakia are genres, i.e. isps. By restoring the words of the county and the Archbishop, we are essentially following the practice and values of the V4 countries, and we are not talking about the nostalgia of a hundred years ago, with which the left was alarmed in 1990. By the way, some of the words used in old times with administrative significance are already used today, for example, in 2012 the former Curia was given its original name back after it had been named the Supreme Court since 1949. We also restored the walks in 2012. But we also have a word, which is an administrative position, which is still used today, which has changed its meaning significantly, so for example, the Mayor of Budapest was originally a representative of the government, and the magistrate elected by the citizens of the capital was called mayor. Under Act No. 36 of 1872, the mayor was elected by the general assembly of the capital of the three persons nominated by the king. [[13.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, If the current amendment of the Fundamental Law had been made with the intention of reciting the past, then the proposal should also include, for example, that the office of Mayor of Budapest is a representative of the government, but this is not in the text, so no one should explain more than what is actually written. In today's times, when the European nation states, including our country, are increasingly under attack from the empire-building, national bonding left, proclaiming the culture of abolition, we must seize every means and opportunity to strengthen Hungarian identity and historical attachment. The proposal to amend the Fundamental Law serves this purpose. Please, you'll support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-90	I am now speaking on behalf of the government to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-91	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Madam President, Dear tableds, The amendment of the basic law tabled by Mr.Máté Kocsis, Mr.István Simicskó and their fellow Members in two areas would amend Hungary's Fundamental Law. The Fundamental Law XXXV. Article 2 (2) would be amended by the fact that instead of the month of October, the general election of local government representatives and mayors should be held at the same time as the election of MEPs in the month of April, May, June or July of the fifth year following the previous local government election. As a transitional rule, it would be included in the final and mixed provisions of the Fundamental Law that, following the local elections in October 2019, the mandate of the currently in office body of representatives and mayor runs until 1 October 2024. The general justification of the proposal states that the general election of the members of Parliament in 2022 and the conduct of the national referendum in a joint procedure resulted in significant cost savings, which in the specific case was more than HUF 10 billion. In the last two years, unfortunately, one major global crisis has followed the other, which also seriously affects national economies, making the balance of central budgets worse in Hungary, the European Union and many other countries around the world. From March 2020, local closures introduced to address the pandemic situation caused by the corona virus pandemic have caused serious disruptions in global supply chains, which have particularly affected export-oriented, open-structure national economies such as Hungary. With the full invasion launched on 24 February 2022, the Russian-Ukrainian war escalated into the most serious regional conflict of war after the Second World War, which takes place in the territory of a neighbouring country where there is a large number of foreign communities, the Transcarpathian Hungarians. Since the beginning of the February aggression, more than 800 thousand refugees, mostly women, older people and children, have come to our country, and their humanitarian care is also a significant daily livelihood for the churches and charitable organisations, as well as for public bodies operating with taxpayers' money. Due to war inflation and often counterproductive sanctions, the drastic rise in energy prices and the disruption of raw materials supply in energy and many industries threaten the global economic crisis, which, as a neighbouring state in Ukraine, can particularly affect Hungary. In this situation, the first thing for the government, as always, is the representation of the interests of Hungarian people and families and the protection of the decades-old results of the Hungarian economy. In our view, this is also the purpose of the intention to hold the elections of the European Parliament and of the local government on one day. I would like to mention here that, before the agenda, an opposition Member has proposed that we save fireworks on 20 August, because we also need the 3 billion forints that this fireworks would cost. Think about these words now, when we talk about saving 10 billion forints by having two choices one day. Dear Parliament, The Ministry of Justice reviewed the amendment of the basic law in question. Feeling that the European Parliament elections will be held on the same day in several countries of the European Union with other votes, it can be said that the proposal fits into European public law practice related to local and popular elections. Baden-Württemberg's electoral law specifically emphasises that it is possible to hold provincial voting on the same day as the EP election. In Luxembourg, Parliament's elections were held from 1979 to 2009 one day with the EP election. The 2019 EP elections were held in Germany, Italy, Belgium, Latvia, Malta, Ireland and Denmark on the same day with other kinds of votes. Dear House, The solemn preamble of the Fundamental Law, the National Confession, declares that we are proud that our King St. Stephen laid the Hungarian state on solid foundations a thousand years ago. We respect the achievements of our historic constitution and confess that protecting our identity, rooted in historical constitutions, is a fundamental duty of the state. We do not acknowledge the suspension of our historic constitution due to alien occupations. We do not recognize the communist constitution of 1949, because it was the basis of a tyrannical rule, so we declare its nullity. The restoration of Hungary's state self-determination lost on 19 March 1944 is expected from 2 May 1990, the first freely elected National Assembly. Article R (3) of the Fundamental Law states that the provisions of the Fundamental Law must be interpreted in accordance with their purpose, the national creed and the achievements of our historical constitution. Article R (4) renders the protection of the constitutional identity of Hungary a duty of all the organs of the State. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In Croatia, the counties are still called bounties. In Germany Bremen, Hamburg and Lubeck are still proud of the official title of the free Hanza town of medieval roots. The administrative units of England, having more than a thousand years of state in Hungary, still bear the name of an ancient Anglo-Saxon, and in the United States, which is the model country of the modern republican state, the elected sheriffs perform various law and order functions, while the character of the Sheriff of Nottingham shows well that it is an Anglo-Saxon of medieval origin. In France and Italy, which are republics, the Minister of Justice also holds the post of guardian of the seals. But let's go home. The judicial levels of justice in the justice system are referred to as the Curia, the referee, the court, the district court. This is the mansion you just told me about, Congressman. I would like to note about the name of the judge's plaque, that it was restored in 1997, on the proposal of the government of a Prime Minister Gyula Horn. And the courts and district courts have been restored to this name and these court units since 2010 at the time of our government. From these examples, it is clear that countries with a better history, which have not been occupied for many decades or even centuries by aliens, and who have not begun the sovereignty of their state, have in many cases preserved their ancient administrative institutions and offices, adapted to the wishes of that age. Consequently, the proposal for the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law to restore the name of the Soviet occupation and the Pre-Communist County, together with another proposal to re-establish the title of Archipelago, is in fact intended to restore the continuity of the constitutional law of Hungary in accordance with the National Creed of the Fundamental Law. After the national drafts of the 20th century, which were connected almost without exception to the alien occupations of a thousand-year-old Hungarian statehood and sovereignty. [[13.50]] Dear House, For this reason, on the part of the Government and on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, we provide for our support for the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-92	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Louis Kósa, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. 30-minute time frame.
u2022-06-28-93	Madam President! Dear House, There are two essential elements of the basic law amendment that we are discussing here. One is the forwarding of municipal elections during parliamentary elections and the other is the re-baptization of counties in the administrative position of the Hungarian state. I can safely say that the second amendment is a simple respect for the Hungarian thousand-year-old statehood. It is a taste question, I can say, because otherwise no other conditions, circumstances or powers change, so the current counties do not lose, they do not win, they do not undergo any change, we simply bring back in their name the thousand-year-old Hungarian administrative position that our King St. Stephen really created. I, to be honest, am pleased with that, and I do not attach such great importance to the debate that surrounds this in the press, because the debate that opposes it brings back the press debate that the Hungarian People and the other Party Press, Workers's Journal, and the rest of the debate in the 49-50s, because there was an extremely strong ideological glaze in this change, because there was a fundamental change in the power, position, organization and everything of the county. And indeed, the past was completely wiped out, so there is no new under the sun, the Cancel culture is not a new invention, it is now completely wiped out, slave, start with us, so they bring it back in this sense, it is of no importance to me, I might say, a taste question. It is of one importance when we say that Hungary has one of the oldest state-states, then we have a reference: for example, a thousand years ago, the administrative order, the essence of which was the county of the castle, began, and we are returning to this name today. Personally, I am very happy about this, but I think that Hungarian political public life and the Hungarian electorate will be as much atone for it as they have made peace with the table court and walking and the Mansion and other such names. So I think it's not going to be such a big problem. Like those who spoke before me, I also support the name of the Archbishop with the small remark that this is even simpler because there is a government office manager, a government official, a government commissioner, there is some confusion in the names. The Archbishop refers to at least one definitive, clear concept, which also refers to a very old Hungarian name, which has also passed into the name of the organisation of other neighbouring states, and ispian-chupan compliance is well known. Therefore, the name of the Archbishop also simplifies the situation, and I think that again, since there is no other change, this is more of a taste issue. So in that sense, I just want to say that I like both of them, and I support them as an author, but I accept if someone doesn't like them. It's like, I'm telling you, it's tasteful. The other issue is that if, on an ideal basis, one does not want to establish any kind of connection with the Hungarian thousand-year-old statehood and the present administration and administrative order, it is a matter of substance, but it is not the subject of this debate, because this issue is not affected here. The second main element of the amendment to the basic law is much more interesting and important, in my view, it is a change in the date of the elections, since the most important procedure of a democratic arrangement is certainly democratic elections. The democratic elections are essentially determined by the order of elections, the manner and time of conduct. So I think that this is a key issue, and I just want to remind everyone that there has been an example, by the way, that the original electoral order and times have been changed. In 1994, the Socialist-Free Democratic Government had constitutional power, two thirds in Parliament, and the rule was that local elections should be held in October. Yes, but the free democratic-socialist coalition could not agree on either the order or the time of the election, and therefore, my dear left-wing representatives, who are extremely sensitive to the rule of law and principles! The Socialist-Free Democratic Government has postponed the elections. It was extended because they had constitutional powers, the time of the outgoing municipal mandates, and the election was in December; in December, because they could not complete the electoral law in time. Therefore, not only would the law have been amended one month before the end of the mandate, but the law was amended two months after the end of the mandate. Do so when someone refers to the correct order of amendment of electoral laws. I note that fundamental changes were made, so not only the date was postponed for more than two months, but the one-way election was introduced at that time. So in the Hungarian electoral order, the one-way system as innovation, as innovation, was linked to socialist-free democratic governments in the municipal electoral order. This is the innovation that we have taken over, by the way. I also listened to the arguments that, not when the one-way election system is criticized by the left, it completely forgets what the arguments of the one-way election system were when they did the same. And of course, it was then that the institution of the directly elected mayor came in, which is again a fundamental amendment compared to the previous municipal electoral system. This is far from the point of view here, but that, first, it was clear to everyone that it was right, in a democracy, more precisely, to amend it: some have admitted that it is not right, that in a democracy, not once every four years, within a six-month period, or twice a half-year, voters should be asked what they think of the political elite, the government's work, the party's work, Parliament, the local governments, but that we somehow push this away and introduce a sort of interim election, which is, moreover, a completely accepted institution in many democracies. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) From this consideration, we modified the order of municipal elections at the first possible time by creating the situation that parliamentary elections and municipal elections were not in one year, but were pushed away from each other, because the parliamentary term was four years old, the municipal five, for example, 2014 was the last year, which, according to the old order, held the parliamentary and municipal elections together with a half-year shift, but already in 18 parliamentary elections, in 19 there was a municipal election, and otherwise it can be calculated that only relatively rarely coincides in this system, so that the term of office was postponed, in one year the municipal and parliamentary elections. There could have been another choice, for example, if we had said that the municipalities also had a four-year term, but it was always in the middle of the parliamentary election, it was a sensible debate and a raise. What was important to us was to bring in a dictatorship with such a brown shirt and such a terrible oppression and a system of authoritarianism that, if possible, we should ask voters at a reasonable pace about their views on the governance of the country, not the method of asking their opinions twice every four years in a six-month period. [[14.00]] So obviously he won't change so much. This also helps to resolve disputes between the elites of the parties, or at least helps to settle them. If you think about it, in the previous system, the municipal and parliamentary electoral logic was something in which what actually happened? There's an elite dispute within the parties, one elite has a fight with the other. You stand up before the election, you decide who will be appointed, who will not be. We have the election, but obviously, whoever wins, the elite wins, so they go on to the municipal election, but where they lost the coupleteli, everyone in the previous system said that everyone should be quiet now, and then we will discuss the debates, but the municipal election comes in the fall, if we don't want to suffer a complete, catastrophic defeat, then don't change anything after that. Yes, but at that time, the elite defeated in the elections will enter the municipal positions and the system will be frozen for four years. (In the notary seat, Dániel Z. Carpathian Replaced by David Dócs.) The current situation helps, for example, because there are not municipal and parliamentary elections in one year. If you fail, the pair that fails with your party in the elections, in one of the elections, there is a chance and time for you to rebuild yourself in the previous struggle, and in the municipal elections you will open up the question of who should then run for municipal elections. In this formula comes the order of the European Parliament elections and the timetable that is independent of us, because when we entered the European Union, we accepted the order that was formed there. There is a five-year term with a spring election, otherwise there is a late spring, early summer election period in the European Parliament. Here in Hungary, this meant that, in fact, we ask people twice in the European Parliament or municipal elections about what they think in a six-month period. Of course, someone can say that the European Parliament elections are about European politics, but they are not. In practice, everyone knows that domestic political debate is the European Parliament's election in all countries and has nothing to do with European trends, common Europe and such abstract concepts as it is in municipal elections, i.e. it is abstract in the sense that we are dealing with matters that are very far from people's everyday problems and lives. So very few Hungarian voters wake up at dawn at 3:00 in the morning and say, "Oh, my God, what will become of you, European unity, or how to proceed with European identity." I think it's rare, but I'm sure there is. I would like to risk that, according to the experience of the Hungarian parliamentary elections and the European Parliament elections, people have come from the Hungarian domestic political situation. This explains why a party like Momentum was able to enter the European Parliament. Because, by the way, it is obvious that if, indeed, on the basis of European processes, which the Momentum was not in any way involved in earlier, it would have been decided, this would not have happened. But he's cute, they're in, well, well... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Well, it's not that cute!]] Well, I think it's right in the sense that it shows that Hungarian democracy in this terrible dictatorship and oppression and brutality represented by Fidesz is alive and flourishing, because there are new actors who cannot be considered government creation or Fidesz branch organization, at least not yet I have heard this, although it may be, but in any case, as the opposition representatives were kind enough, or parties to pin our country on Fidesz, even though they should ask the President of Novak about his reality, whether it is right or not. [[Defiance.]] parentheses closed. So let's not drink ahead of the bear, there will be András Fekete-Győr as head of the Momentum faction, and by the way, if you look at his performance, then let's face it, sometimes he plays specifically for us. [[Defiance.]] If you weren't playing below us, I wouldn't dare assume you're so infinitely uninformed and blind, that you don't know the basic facts about the most important political issue for him, the Olympics from which your whole genesis came? No way! [[Nacsa Lawrence: Four times!]] [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] If you weren't playing below us, I wouldn't dare assume you're so infinitely uninformed and blind, that you don't know the basic facts about the most important political issue for him, the Olympics from which your whole genesis came? No way! (Nacsa Lőrinc: Four times!) I have a better opinion of Black Győr, so I'd rather suspect that Black Győr is still our agent. (Faintness.) As Vice President Fidesz, I will look into this (Development). parentheses closed. But the Black-Győr plays under us all the time, that's for sure. Like no one else would want to make a complete fool of themselves in a friendly Partisan report with a parentheses permanently locked up in connection with the Momentum. I would just like to note that I am pleased that the Momentum has also entered Parliament, the European Parliament, and this proves the virulent nature of Hungarian democracy, even if I do not know what is going on in the country, according to opposition analysts, in the meantime a terrible dictatorship and brown shirt fascism. Returning to seriousness, I therefore believe that the municipal elections held at the same time as the elections to the European Parliament are of excellent interest in ensuring not only competition between parties in democratic elections, but also, where appropriate, a system that does not make the elites within the expectations impossible. By the way, even if I say something strange, perhaps that I think it's important to have a self-reflection of the parties, or to be able to sense the political situation or political events in some way, in relation to the various electoral dynamics and organizational sociological reasons, let's not strangle it originally or otherwise... so I support far-reaching, as I did before, to bring the two elections together. I think the regulation seems to be such a technical issue in this sense, but it should also be okay, and that is okay. I think it's an additional, additional advantage, and it also has significant cost savings. So the pointless waste of money will be eliminated by this proposal. I very much hope that I will be right, for example, that this system will allow what I have said to clarify the internal elite problems of the various political forces. The most eloquent proof of this will be that the joint candidate for mayor of the opposition will not be Gergely Christmas, but someone else who has the chance in this sense. If the old system had worked now, there wouldn't be any chance of that. So I would like to ask Members to listen, not only to the proposal, but also to look at what we have done with regard to electoral systems. [[Defiance from the opposition benches.]] One of the first important things is that we have shifted the municipal and parliamentary cycles. That's the most important thing. That's what makes it possible what I'm talking about. If we hadn't pushed it now, and we had an election in October, this October according to the old system, then I'm sure that Gregory Christmas would be your joint candidate, so there's an opportunity to decide whether Gregory Christmas is the most outstanding or someone else. That's great. [[Defiance from the opposition benches. Gergely Harvestó: We are grateful, Louis, so much!]] Opportunity only [[Defiance.]] Take it or leave it, you know. The other important thing is that we also respond to the question of how many times in a cycle we ask voters what their opinion is. I don't think twice in six months is going to do that, so in that sense, that's the downside. I think that it is not negligible that if this has some cost-saving effect, but if we are to operate a system that allows new candidates to enter, it is always good for democracy. By all means, let us operate a system that gives parliamentary parties and parliamentary parties an important opportunity to reflect themselves, even if sometimes we are listening to wild analyses about what is the context. [[14.10]] That is why we have tabled this proposal, this House, so I would not simplify it on a purely budgetary issue. I hope that you will be able to support this proposal, it would be okay if there were some common minimum in this, but the choice in democracy, that is... that is perhaps the most important system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-94	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It is well known that the Democratic Coalition is not a great believer in this Fundamental Law, and we have said and expressed this in a plastic way on many occasions, but there is a certain interest in having a stability of the Fundamental Law, the current constitution. The fact is, however, while you are educating us about the respect of the Fundamental Law and asking us to do so, you are the ones who do not respect their own Fundamental Law in the least. In the previous cycle, it has been amended three times, and now the Parliament has not been in operation for two months, but we are already in the second amendment of the basic law. In the case of the Fundamental Law, you clearly do not seek to do so from the beginning, because you have not sought to establish a framework for our common political life with some kind of social consensus, nor do you seek to take their own Fundamental Law so seriously that it can be amended only to the extent and frequency required. When some political interest calls for this last announcement of the current emergency, it is now a municipal election tactical issue, then the Fundamental Law will be amended without thinking and remorse. Because what is this bill about? You are saying that that is why, and that is your main argument, although Congressman Kósa has now brought this issue to light in a very wide range of ways, but you are saying that the main reason for the election of the local government and the European Parliament is the same period of time, the savings, the savings that can be achieved in this way. There's no doubt that the budget needs all the money, but they're not spending it very well, but it'll be the subject of another debate, the debate on the budget, but there would be something to spend this money, this resource, on the other hand. I just wanted to ask you, why don't you, say, reduce the number of State Secretarys? This government has 57 state ministers, plus 11 state ministers. Do you know how many state ministers the second Gyurcsány government had? I'll tell you, 13. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And how many were working? Half!]] So, if we could say we split this state secretary's figure, we'd be making a very significant savings. Or if the Prime Minister's salary had been raised not twice, but only one and a half times, and I am sorry, I did not want to hurt him two and a half times, but only raised him by one and a half times, and he would not have been given a hand by removing the tenant ceiling for the members of the government, and I could have saved a considerable amount of money; and I can say a few more. But obviously, you do not touch the election date because of this, but because, as usual, you are hoping for a tactical advantage, you hope to make the situation of the opposition more difficult, because there are two [[Lajos Kósa: At this? Don't be silly.]] an election in a different electoral system must be held at the same time, and the opposition must prepare for this: the European Parliament election is a clean list election, while the municipal election is a complicated, mixed choice, at least in large cities, larger settlements, there is an individual district election and a mayor's election, where cooperation is, of course, the desirable and successful tactic for the opposition. You want to prevent this or make it difficult, you look down on opposition voters, you think you'll have trouble following how to vote. I think you're wrong about that, by the way. I hardly think that would disturb the opposition voters, but that's obviously what the intention is. As a matter of fact, the voters do not have to vote too often or contribute to the urns, right, the fact is that on the basis of this argument, you have already made a change at the time of the municipal elections, surprisingly, a relatively reasonable change, which said that after two five-year cycles, the election date will be halfway through the parliamentary elections, and then it will remain so with another four-year term. They are changing this now, continuing the five-year cycles, but bringing forward the local elections to the European Parliament elections. This is a good idea this year, but among other things, this year will be the year 2034, and after this kind of quiz game, I see that it has become a parliamentary genre, I will tell you that in 2034 as opposed to what you think, there will be Olympics, and winter Olympics. But, to get back to the essence of the question, I would therefore like to point out that this solution is a practical idea only at first, because it will continue with the fact that we are going to return to the system we had before, and rightly that the parliamentary and municipal elections were in the same year, and now we are going to return to this system again, at least at times this will be the case. I must also add, ladies and gentlemen, that, moreover, this is believed to be being moved away from their earlier promises and to move to another kind of system, to create an impossible legal situation when the mayors and councils elected for five years in 2019 are voted in May or more precisely in early June, if I remember the date well, the new municipalities and mayors are voters, and then in October the new bodies and mayors will only take office. Those who remember what happened in 2002, when the Orbán government was replaced, or who remember what happened in 2019 in the municipalities where Fidesz lost, have some concern about what these may have already lost, lost office or, sorry, lost the possibility of further continuation, but still in office mayors and municipal bodies will use this summer period. With regard to the other element of the proposal, the county of the castle, and with reference to the introduction of the post not included here, but otherwise related to the capital, this is, quite frankly, of no practical significance. Most of all, these topics are meant to be discussed here. I am a believer in the promotion of historical traditions, but for example, I would see it more powerful in the area of the maintenance of historical traditions if the system of heritage conservation were restored and the Hungarian built heritage was not destroyed in the same way as in the last 12 years. As far as the counties are concerned, Mr Pósán has spoken very nicely about this, and I fully agree with him, but it does not depend on the name of the institution as county or county. However, if they were to return to the counties the institutions and permissions that were taken from them, that would be more consistent with the traditions of the Hungarian county, and would be more consistent with the role that the counties have historically played and which they should continue today as elected administrative middle level. And I'd like to put an emphasis on that last sentence. Because, of course, I know that you know this, but let us remember that the relationship between the Archbishop and the County was not legally what you propose or what is currently the relationship between the government commissioner and the elected county government and its president. The Archbishop was, in essence, chief of the county, and although it is not now proposed to amend these powers, but, as Mr Máté Kocsis has just so kindly said, I am sorry, Mr Group Leader, there may still be one or two amendments to the county, and let us say that I would not be surprised, or live by the suspicions that, before we vote on this amendment of the basic law or on the relevant amendments to the law, we may have yet to come up with an amendment which will rearrange the relations between the Archbishop and the County, or which might recreate the noble historical tradition that Mr Pósán mentioned in a very citing sign that the Chief Mayor, an agent of the government, is not elected by the people of the capital. [[14.20]] I can see from your constant comments that you have a need for this, that you find it difficult for the citizens of the capital to choose their own mayor. [[Lajos Kósa: You know wrong, we're happy!]] It is also very strange that they want to tie the local elections to the European Parliament by taking away the opportunity for Hungarian citizens to elect their MEPs themselves. But we will discuss this in more detail in the debate on a next bill. So let's just say that some of this fundamental law amendment is not timely, that later in a comprehensive amendment or in a local government reform it could be discussed, but it is not important, it is not important. Other parts, however, are particularly harmful and serve some political intentions, so we are still unable to support them. [[Lajos Kosa applauds.]]
u2022-06-28-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the KDNP Group has indicated that three speakers are presenting the group's position. I'll give the floor to Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-97	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law contains four articles, the first article amends Article 35 (2) of the Fundamental Law in such a way that European Parliament and municipal elections are held at the same time. With this, we would save nearly HUF 10 billion. The second article adds a new point 27 to the final provisions, which shall also apply to the general election of local government representatives and mayors following the general election in 2019 by the fact that, unlike Article 35 (3), the term of office of the incumbent body of representatives and mayor runs until 1 October 2024. The third article amends the Fundamental Law in so far as the name of the counties changes to the county. The basic territorial units of the Hungarian administration from the establishment of the state, remember, until 1949 the county itself was the county. The use of the word "Vármegye" was abolished by the dictatorial communist regime, which was intended to completely break up with the former Hungarian constitutional and administrative system. The fourth article concerns the entry into force of the amendments, so that the first two enter into force on the date of publication, while the part of the county of the castle will enter into force on 1 January 2023. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please remember, the Fundamental Law is more than a law. The Fundamental Law is the law of the law. It was the Fundamental Law that brought our country back to the path of organic development in 2011. Remember, too, that the main features of the Hungarian nation are the love of constitutionality, so it is no coincidence that the II. The Golden Bull, which was founded by King Andrew eight hundred years ago, rivals the Magna Charter, which was created almost at the same time. The Golden Bull lays down principles of law which, to this day, are one of the most fundamental truths of a rule of law, the principle of one and the same freedom ensured equal rights for free country dwellers, while the right of resistance is the same opportunity to resist a ruler who violates the historic constitution. The Golden Bull is not only of historical importance, but also a right, a law that still exists under our Fundamental Law, which allows us to enforce our historic constitution through interpretation of the law. Our nation's constitutional faith, the spiritual heritage of our historic constitution, is the basis for our Fundamental Law, so if we want to be Hungarian citizens worthy of our ancestors, then we must retain the guiding spiritual power of our historic constitution, or national Christian values. There were times when this organic constitutional development forced our country to be torn apart. That's what XX of 1949 did. Law, which was the Hungarian adaptation of the Stalin Constitution, born in the shadow of Soviet bayonets. Although, after the change of regime, significant changes were made to Section XX of 1949. Law, the Communist Constitution, but that doesn't change his inspiration. Under his jurisdiction, we felt like we were in a castle without guards. Return to our organic constitutional development took place on 25 April 2011 under our Easter Fundamental Law. Again, we have to say this repeatedly, because for many, this fact is not self-evident. Ladies and Gentlemen, For a thousand years, the Hungarian nation has been constantly expressing its desire to live in a Christian national form. Only occupation or total dictatorship could override that. We Hungarians consider traditional Jewish-Christian values important, so we consider the creation of the world important, and that man was created for man and woman. For this, the Hungarian Constitution provides a line of defence. This line of defense is protected by Fidesz-KDNP. Therefore, whatever foreign pressure we are under, Hungary does not sell its future. Let's go, Hungary, let's go, Hungarians! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-98	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the next speaker of the KDNP. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, please.
u2022-06-28-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The speakers before me have already talked about why it is important to combine municipal and European Parliament elections, what administrative, bureaucratic action this is, and how much money we can save. It can also be seen that it worked in 2022 that parliamentary elections were held together with the referendum, thus increasing the willingness of both to participate, and that there were basically more people involved than usual, thereby strengthening the legitimacy of the current government, the current parliamentary majority. This year's parliamentary election and the conduct of a national referendum in a joint procedure resulted in cost savings of more than HUF 10 billion, so the participation in the parliamentary elections was 70.21 percent, while the percentage of non-answers to four questions in the referendum ranged from 92 to 95 percent, i.e. 3.6 to 3.7 million people agreed with the government's questions. In addition, 158-300 thousand people voted in favour of each question. This means that in the referendum, as it was held at the same time as the parliamentary elections, there was an extremely high number of voters who contributed to the ballot box. This high participation gives real legitimacy to the results of the referendum questions, whether the Hungarian people voted yes or no. This is also a record, as in the history of Hungarian democracy, 3.6-3,7 million people have never agreed with the government's position in a referendum, including the referendums on NATO and EU accession. Municipal elections and elections to the European Parliament tend to take place with less than 50 percent participation. At the municipal elections there was 44.30 percent participation at national level in 2014, compared with 48.58 percent in 2019. In 2014 there was 28.97 percent participation in the European Parliament elections, compared with 43.48 percent in 2019. The election of the local and European Parliament to be held one day will create the possibility that voters will only have to contribute once in 2024 to the ballot box, thereby increasing the willingness to participate. The additional advantage of holding two national votes on one day is that in 2024 there is no need to conduct two election campaigns with half a year apart, which is also a financial, resource and administrative relief for both nominating organisations, activists, the Election Office, the state administration and even the budget. Voters also benefit from the fact that they do not need to see DK's electoral posters and advertisements in two periods a year, for example, and they will not feel that they are living in a permanent election campaign. [[Gergely Harvesting: Our posters are being mauled anyway! Lajos Kósa: Yes, and we rip it off personally.]] The other part of the 11th amendment to the Fundamental Law seeks to restore historical satisfaction from the destruction of communists. From the establishment of the state until 1949, the main territorial units of the Hungarian administration were the county. Gergely Arató mentioned that we have repeatedly amended the Fundamental Law, and he loves stability. Well, that's probably why they didn't touch the Communist Basic Law, the 1949 Constitution, Gergely Arató never once, he likes this stability, the long-term basic laws and constitutions. [[14.30]] The use of the word "Vármegye" was abolished by the dictatorial communist regime, which was intended to completely break up with the former Hungarian constitutional and administrative system. Restoring the use of the word Vármegye in today's Hungarian legal order ensures that the constitutional traditions of the thousand-year-old Hungarian state will continue in this form. The backbone of the administration and defence system of the Christian Hungarian state founded by St. Stephen was formed by the county for more than 900 years. In countries in a more fortunate historical situation where there was no communism, there are still historical names for public offices and territorial administration, for example, in the United Kingdom, the Minister of Justice is still called Lord High Chancellor of Great Britain. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that, if we look at Poland, there are Vojvodinas, which are led by Vojvodinas, or just a bunch of them, which my fellow Member has already spoken about, or prefectures from the territory of Romania, or in the Irish language they call the counties, in the traditional Irish language, which are the current units of the administration. If you look at it, fellow Members, it was also a big debate around the 1990 regime change that both the mayor and the notary were a new office that had not been brought back before, under the Communists, and then the left of that time was already your predecessors or you made the same kind of trouble that... You guys like the county council board system, so let's face it. So that's actually your problem, that there are mayors, there's notaries, there's county, there's archbishops, and it's not the county council presidents who rule life and death in terms of territorial administration. I would rather turn to Ferenc Deák, the sage of the homeland, who put it this way about the county in the Reform Age in 1835, "These municopies stand guard for our constitution with undefinable moral strength, and from here they source, and that is where virtually all the gains of the nation come back. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, So after nine and a half centuries in Hungary, the Communists created XX of 1949 on the Soviet model. By law, the Stalinist constitution, the rejection of the local government, they considered the counties as executives of the central government, and led by a council, the bodies of which had real powers, were the executive committees, led by the presidents. The Communists abolished it with the Stalinist Constitution of 1949, and then the Curia, called the Supreme Court, was given its old historical name back in 2012. We have seen many of these good examples, since today, for more than thirty years, it is natural to call the elected leaders of the settlements mayors, but this is also a traditional historical name. Based on all this, it is high time, in honor of our historical traditions, to restore the name of the county, which will be as natural as the words of the mayor or the mansion, in a few years, in a decade. The renaming is therefore a sign of repayment of historical debt, respect for Hungarian historical traditions, and a tribute to the history of the Hungarian administration, which is why we will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-100	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to István Hollik, also from KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Most of our arguments have been made, and I would only add a few. The fundamental law amendment before us has basically two parts; one concerns the county of the castle and the name of the Archbishop. Here, ladies and gentlemen on the left, Gergely Arató has already done this, and the others will probably still join him, asking why we are changing these names now. I think, of course, you have the right to ask this question. The question should be asked why, after 900 years, the Communists have changed the name of this institution with a great tradition. I think that's the right question. If we answer this question, the answer must be that the communist destruction, which has such symbolic results, such as the renaming of institutions with hundreds of years of tradition, must be put in place. Yeah, we can do that now, so we're gonna do it. The fact that these names, by the way, will take root in the common language, obviously none of us have any experience, perhaps one, but it is worth reaching back to. We have heard the skeptical statements that Moscow Square will always be Moscow Square, and even though we call it Széll Kálmán Square, it will always be so. I am experiencing it now, but it is obviously a personal remark that the common language has started to use it, and the members of the young generation, who no longer know the name Moscow Square, have started to use it, and almost only use it as Széll Kálmán tér. So I think that the common language will embrace this beautiful old tradition. Moreover, it is indeed as my fellow Members have said, that there have been precedents for this debate, because in 1990 we restored it, and the then Parliament restored the name of the mayor and the notary. There wasn't much debate about that. I don't understand that if these are old names, pre-49 names, otherwise, if they didn't have a problem with this, what's wrong with the Archbishop and the County? The other, in agreement with my fellow Member, Kósa, is in fact a matter of style, and I would like to confirm once again that this does not change the competence of the counties and government commissioners. So that doesn't make the work of the government commissioners any better, or worse, and the powers and duties of the counties don't change. I therefore think that, on this basis, there is, in fact, no reason not to support this change, this restoration, the retreat to historical traditions. The other issue is the setting up of two elections, the European Parliament and the municipal elections. I would now like to draw the attention of the left-wing Members first of all to the fact that they are not unprecedented in the European Union in bringing together two elections. In Denmark, for example, the general elections were held ten days before the EP elections in 2019; on 24 May 19 local and European Parliament elections were held in Ireland on one day; on 26 May 2019 the EP elections and the first round of local and regional elections were held at the same time in Greece. But in Finland, too, there was a system similar to ours that the election was at two different times, and they are working on changing it and pulling it together. To tell you the truth, there is a discreet charm when the Democratic Coalition is concerned about public standing and the stability of the Fundamental Law, as our fellow Member Gergely Arató did. As my fellow Member Nacsa has said, this is probably because they have not been able to change the former Communist Constitution of 49 in XX for 30 years. To add one more aspect to this: when they had a legal obligation to do so, because the Election Committee identified such a difference and disproportionateness in the Budapest and Pest county constituencies, which would have obliged you to change the electoral district borders as party associations, which would otherwise have held a majority of governments, you did not even do so. So you didn't take any action even when it was an obligation to do so, the Constitutional Court specifically stated that there was a failure to comply with the constitution in your case. So I understand that you do not want to change, but I think that this change is appropriate, and that makes sense. Mr Arató's accusation is that, in fact, there will be years, if I count it correctly, every 20 years, when the parliamentary, European Parliament and municipal elections are in one place. By the way, you list this as a counter-argument to the current amendment, and I consider it a pro argument, because I think that, by the way, voters will have to participate in a campaign at that time, or, as they say, they will have to suffer a campaign, an argument specifically for the current change, not against it. [[14.40]] And one more point: this is not the first time you've made an accusation that the Fidesz-KDNP majority would end the direct mayor election. I've heard that as many times as left-wing analysts say that Fidesz wants to hold elections in the next month or the next month. If I haven't heard that a hundred times in the last 10 to 15 years, I haven't heard it once. Obviously, these left-wing analysts and politicians who make these accusations when these predictions don't happen, never apologize for their lies. It would be nice if you could do that for once. Summa summarum, KDNP, as two of my fellow Members have said, considers both proposals to be good, and we will therefore support it. I ask my fellow left-wing Members to do the same. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-102	Thank you, Member, and I give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, Here is the n+1, sorry, in the N+11 amendment of the Fundamental Law, showing how much of our unfortunate Fundamental Law amendment had to be passed, which the Prime Minister also regularly calls the Constitution. If there is one thing to say to you, then, if we are talking about a historic constitution, we could at least amend the Fundamental Law to a constitution, because that is how you always use it in public speaking, and perhaps there is no greater question now, that if we call it a story, then it could be called a constitution. But that is not what the bill itself is about, and this is not the subject of the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law, but of the debate on the county and the Archbishop, on the one hand, and the restoration of this institution, on the other hand, perhaps a less important one, the election of the European Parliament and the holding of the local elections on the one day. Jobbik's position on the county has remained unchanged since 2011. If the bill itself were to vote only on the county of the castle, or if it had an established point, or a separate request point, in which only the county should be voted on as an institution, Jobbik would be able to support this proposal. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, when you talk about missed historical opportunities, and the Communists, socialists, of whom, let us be honest, there are still more in your benches who were ministers and officials of this power, whether in the KIS or in other areas, but obviously in their souls, we would be pleased to hear them speak, probably the former KIS officials or other officials who, as anointed representatives of the then governing party, worked in the county councils or local councils, or in these offices, and would now tell us how worried they are about the interrupted constitution and broken history... So, the thing is, the Jobbik can suggest to you that they would have been brave in 2011. In 2011, there was a debate about this, and Jobbik supported the introduction of the institution of the county in itself, and since then, I repeat, we support the return of this institution. Perhaps that is the least, and this is not a problem at all with this proposal. So what I can tell you is that at this point, if there is a separate vote on it, you will certainly be able to stand our support. On the other hand, with regard to the Archbishop, we already do, and I believe that, overall, the proposal can be said to have some proportion lost, in some way, of the most important problems of the past period and, in some way, an unfair diversion of the current situation. This should also be the focus of Hungary and perhaps the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, and it should respond to the fact that we are at the threshold of an economic crisis or already in the middle of an economic crisis, with an exchange rate of more than 400 forints, two-digit inflation, while the government is idly watching this, and there are debates in Parliament about how we will bring back the county or the Archbishop. There is, of course, a legitimate way to argue about this, but it is in the interests of the Hungarian people, and in this I think that, as a right-wing conservative betterman, we should have a debate, and perhaps the most important debates should be held in this, the crisis of people's daily livelihood and the subsequent crisis following the smallest small entrepreneurs, and the management of this should be the main focus. Let me also add that you have not, as usual, carried out minimal social consultations with this proposal, and thought that after an imported bill, the ingenious people of Facebook should judge the fate of the county and the Archbishop. All of us had a smile on our faces because of the entries that had been made in this context, but they certainly did not help to increase public confidence in this direction with regard to the two institutions and traditions which were otherwise historically important, because the way in which you chose to bring it in and threw the view of this issue to Facebook people without agreement, it may not have helped to build the narrative and the narrative that the county really needed, for example, and it is worth having a social debate on this. Instead, the Facebook people dragged this topic to the left and to the right, and misplaced it with different adjectives. Otherwise, it was a pleasure to watch this, but it would have been much more enjoyable to look at the views on the livelihood crisis, why the VAT is not zero percent, how people will have more money in their pockets, and not talk about how the multinationals will not pass on or steal that money from the people's pockets with public taxes or taxes passed on. They should have been discussed in substance. We therefore propose that the main debate be that there should be zero percent VAT, that we protect this VAT reduction and that we introduce a social card, in the long term, we guarantee the most deprived people. It is also clear, and this is the second part of the bill, the amendment of the basic law, that there is a minimum concern about the provision, and here, in a legal and even public sense, that you want to hold the European Parliament elections on the same day as the municipal elections. Perhaps the biggest concern will be the transition period, and perhaps the situation in the Hungarian legal order will be less known and a little uncertain, when one body still has a mandate, another has been elected, but its mandate is not yet in place, and there may be a sufficient number of legal situations in the intermediate period, the regulation of which is necessary both in the electoral and in public law. This uncertainty also does not increase public confidence, which is perhaps one of the most important elements of indirect democracy, the confidence in the local government and municipal representatives and the bodies, because they are the end of the institution of democracy, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the entry points, which may be surrounded by the largest nymbussmen and the highest recognition. From 2010 to 2014, I had the pleasure of being a municipal representative in the city of Karcag, and, fellow Members, there are fewer things better than being a municipal representative. Some of us look around, some of us look around, some of us mayor or mayor. You can think of less better things than dealing with people's issues on a daily basis, essentially living among them. In this, any uncertain transition period in which there is a legal situation in question and, let us say, by trying to settle the transitional period with whatever legislation, will bring about a lot of unsolvable situations for both the legislator and the law-abiding authorities, which undermines the public confidence that people have placed in municipal offices, elected representatives, mayors and the office serving them. So that's why I think he's extremely concerned. For my part, I am not interested in the fact that there will be two choices on this day and how the parties will campaign on it. The election must be won on the day it is. If it rains, if the wind blows, if the sun shines, if people don't like to vote, if people are willing to vote, it doesn't matter on which day the elections are held, they can be settled one day. In fact, you can even share the argument that this can be saved. It has been said on your part that it can be saved for HUF 10 billion, or I would add that both elections, the European Parliament elections and the municipal elections are in their own way a national consultation. One is a national consultation on where our place is in the world, what our relationship is with Western countries, our ally system, the European interest and the value circle. This is one of the national consultations, which is the European Parliament's choice. The other is how we think of the local public life, which is the important issues we want to organise, and in whom we trust so much that for the next five or four years, depending on the cycle, how to organize the life of our narrowest country and the narrowest medium affecting us. These two consultations alone are worth HUF 10-10 billion, or at least one of them is worth HUF 10 billion. I would like to say to you that the argument in itself that this will save 10 billion forints is perhaps quite interesting in the light of the fact that you have allocated 76 billion forints for the next year, in the budget of 2023 only for central government communication, which is at the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, for poster and national consultation. [[14.50]] This means that you will also be planning at least two national consultations next year, which exceed the amount of the real national consultation I have referred to. So the argument of summation alone would not be enough to hold it one day, but I would add that Jobbik is not interested in this aspect at all, in a gown, in a budapestic way, does not care that the two choices will be made in the same day. You have to do well in both elections if it's one day, if it's separate. However, it is certainly a matter of consideration, as I have just mentioned to you, that there may be legal concerns or disorderly situations that we do not see and see in what legislation it comes from. It is likely that the law on suffrage or the law on electoral proceedings will have to settle the specific rules that fall between the transitional period, i.e. the local government that obtained the mandate and exited the mandate, as it will result in and result in a great deal of irregular situations. So, overall, I have to say that the best way to deal with the country's fate is to have N+1. It would be about how we will solve the livelihood crisis, how we will ensure that the cost of war is not borne by families, because it is also clear that the extra profit tax that is passed on will be paid by families. It is also clear that the value of double-digit inflation is ultimately paid by families, and it also seems that if there is no VAT reduction, the cost of high prices, the high euro, and even the whole cost of living and the livelihood crisis will be paid by families, which cannot be allowed. Overall, this current bill, the eleventh amendment of the basic law, contains only one respectable and good point for the county of the county, and it is also largely unacceptable, so I will not say anything new to you by saying that Jobbik cannot support it in this form. If there are separate voting methods and options for the county, our position in 2011 is, unlike you, unchanged, we can support it. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-104	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to David Bedő, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-105	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Well, now we've come to the eleventh amendment to our rock-solid Fundamental Law, another amendment. It is really very, very difficult to follow how many of us are at, because every time your political interests so require, they change one of our Fundamental Laws. I expect you to know that I am not going to talk about the Archbishop and the county because I think that the biggest clown you've done in the last 12 years is what you've been doing about it. Let's talk about the other important part of this fundamental amendment, the removal of the election. I think that oppression does not come in one step, freedom disappears step by step, in small doses, almost undetected. The most cunning villains in history, like frogs in pots, slowly boiled the society they had taken over. By the time they noticed, they couldn't jump out of that pot. While the system has always devoured its own children without exception, breaking up society always leads to winners and losers who end up being losers. We have seen examples of this in Hungarian history, but, unfortunately, in the last 12 years, we no longer have to look at the codes for this reason, here is your government and your government: stealthy oppression, always hiding behind some excuse, some explanation, a exalted reason. 25 March 2013 Fourth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law: non-marriage partners, orphaned children and the aunt who raised him or the same-sex couples are no longer considered family. At least you do not consider them to be so important to the Fundamental Law nine years ago. 14 June 2016 Sixth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law: during a terrorist threat, the government may create a decree to suspend the application of certain laws, derogate from legal provisions, and take other extraordinary measures. The first measure that underpins your regulation governance, which is a parentheses democracy. 22 December 2020 The ninth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law: the mother is a woman, the father is a man. This was then considered to be so important that it was communicated to the country in the Fundamental Law. In addition, Hungary should ensure that education based on Christian culture is based on values. This has been done in such a way that, before and after that, the pro-government representatives have repeatedly trampled through the teachings of the Ten Commandments or even the New Testament. For example, what was achieved by this amendment of the basic law. From here on, couples of the same sex are practically not allowed to adopt children in Hungary. It's an extremely Christian act, I can tell you, an evil move with children, an evil move against the same-sex couples, but at least politically it came in handy for you. With the same amendment to the basic law, it was stated that the government could declare an emergency for 30 days and extend it whenever the reason for the emergency exists. In the event of an emergency, the government can govern with regulations without the involvement of Parliament. At that time, they were not as shy as they were a few years before, and immediately the emergency was introduced, which was constantly extended, and they began to govern the regulation. Stealthy oppression, though. 24 May 2022 10th amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law: From now on, the government can declare an emergency and introduce regulation governance due to armed conflict in a neighbouring country, a war situation. They could no longer rely on an epidemic, so they found another excuse to maintain the sense of danger, and they could retain the full power, because no power was ever enough for the tyrants. Two-thirds is not enough for you, and you would also be free of Parliament's grudges. This is how we came to the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, in which you, fellow Members of the Government, would bring together the elections of the European Parliament and of the local government. The latter would be held between April and June 2024 instead of October 2024, on the same day as the EP elections. Of course, they put an excuse behind this: they would save money. I say these words carefully, because the ceiling of this once-beautiful building will fall upon us. You, who are planning to spend 110 billion forints on propaganda during the economic crisis, who would spend 130 billion forints on sports support, who have put up luxurious stadiums for hundreds of billions of forints, scattered thousands of billion forints among your friends, and if there is no Momentum, we would now be moaning the cost of a 5000 billion forints of Olympics over the 2000 billion-dollar austerity package. And you would like to save 10 billion forints in two years by combining two choices that are not in any way related to each other. What I don't understand, fellow Members of the Government, is why, if they are so courageous and confident, why don't they speak openly, why don't they stand up to the Hungarians and tell them that they want to combine the two choices based on completely different principles to create chaos and create apathy in the voters? Or why don't you be a little braver? Why don't you just combine the 2024 EP and municipal elections and the 2026 parliamentary elections? That would save you more money, wouldn't it? Why would we stop here? We could combine the 2030 and 2034 elections. Three in one, that's the cheapest, isn't it? I'll give you one, I'll give you three. On sale for the election in Hungary! You like to save money on one thing: democracy, that's what you like to save. It is obviously very uncomfortable for you to have this set-up, which, in principle, is subject to popular rule and rule of law, which we, opposition representatives, are the last to remind you of in this country. They would be freed from us, too, and rid themselves of the last props of democracy, free elections. Creating chaos, confusion and apathy is the most important institution of democracy, one of the favorite tools of repressive systems in the context of free choice. And oppression, as history has taught us, does not come in one step; freedom disappears one step at a time, in small portions, almost unnoticed around us. The most cunning villains in history, like frogs in pots, are slowly cooking the society they take over. By the time they notice, they won't be able to jump out of the pot, while the system will always eat its own children without exception. Breaking up society always leads to winners and losers who end up being losers. And if you go on this path, my honourable members of the Government, you will be there for the losers, and you will have no doubt about it, and you will have to account for it in front of a nation. [[15.00]] Therefore, for once, please listen to your heart, your moral judgment and your common sense, if you still have some left and vote against the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Applause.]]
u2022-06-28-106	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Mr. President, please.
u2022-06-28-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, indeed, the eleventh anniversary of the Basic Law on granite may well remember the number of amendments to the number before us now, the general debate of this is taking place. As a matter of fact, what we have heard in the leaders has hit my ears about the idea of my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, on this amendment to the basic law, which means that the elections to the European Parliament and the elections to the local government are set on a date, it creates this possibility. That is because it seems to have expressed a separate opinion compared to the other fellow Members, and it may even be said that it was an honest speech, because it clearly pointed out that there was no saving here, did it not, he also said, that saving is just a side effect of the combination of the two elections, where there is a strong political interest. Although it was difficult for me to understand this between political elites, I don't know what it was, but it was a sentence when he said that we knew that the European Parliament election was not about Europe, right, that we didn't wake up in sweat about the functioning of the important institutions of the European Union, and he said something like this, but it is about internal politics. And that is, in fact, the reason for this amendment, since Fidesz would not amend its granite-solid Fundamental Law if its political interests did not dictate this. But I was also disappointed by my colleague Kósa as mayor, because he actually described the municipal election as if it was not about the local people, the people in the settlements. So, as if it weren't about electing their direct representative in a municipal election in a given constituency or in a given municipality, the body of representatives, mayor, and choosing people, not necessarily party candidates who are trusted, who have performed locally, whose programme is convincing in a given settlement, because one of the cornerstones of democracy is that in our most direct residential environment, we can determine who is representing us and what developments are to be made in a small constituency. Unfortunately, over the last 12 years, a lot of powers and powers have been removed from the municipalities, but it is still an important choice. On the other hand, we have heard that, in fact, the municipal election is a mechanism of reconciliation between political elites and not about people. That's why I'm disappointed in you, Congressman, as former mayor. [[Lajos Kósa: You should have paid attention!]] I mean, you've been there for a very long time, and maybe you don't take offense, but you've represented and led that city successfully. So I'm sorry you forgot that after all this time. The savings we've heard here: Secretary of State Répássy had him surrounded by fireworks. This is also somewhat a disappointment, although it is perfectly natural for Fidesz to give up choice rather than fireworks. My fellow Member, who spoke before the agenda, said that he would rather have more bread and less circuses for the people, but you would rather have that 6.5 plus 1 billion forint for the fireworks than bet on a particular election. So, it is in your political interest that the municipal election should not be about the settlements; that the municipal election should not be about the election of a particular community to elect its own leaders; that the development of a given settlement should be ensured, that representatives who will work for their benefit should be entrusted with a national campaign, an internal political campaign, as my fellow Member Kósa said. [[Lajos Kósa: I didn't say that!]] You can put propaganda on it again. Communication must not be focused on thousands, it can be a central campaign staff, it can continue the fight against Brussels, against the European Union, it can be encouraged phrases and, in fact, distract voters from the fact that otherwise they will decide on the fate of their own settlement. So that's the point of your amendment. And thank you, Mr Kósa, for your honesty, for pointing out the real reason for this amendment to the basic law. The other part of the amendment to the basic law, I didn't want to add too much to it either, but there were some arguments that I couldn't ignore. Congressman Nacsa compared the Hungarian counties to the Romanian Prefectures, which I feel is a little strong. But in fact, the break-up with the communist past has been repeated several times, and commieism, even on the previous agenda, has commieted my former colleague Mr Kocsis. That's when I realized it was actually about covering up your leaders' communist past. I am thinking of the Prime Minister, I am thinking of the Speaker, who, however, took part in the communist regime, were members of the communist organizations that worked at the time. So, in fact, this is about wanting their own past, covering up the past of their own leaders, and obviously convincing voters through the propaganda machine that there is no communist past on the part of the Fidesz MEPs, on the part of the Prime Minister and Speaker, although, as you put it, they were commies, too. We will not support the amendment of the basic law. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-28-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Novak Elok, the lead speaker of the group of our country. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As a constructive opposition party, we would like to remove this particular fang by keeping the benefits of the bill before us, eliminating its disadvantage, since it is legitimate to hold the municipal and EP elections on a day of cost-effectiveness. As I think the argument that may not have been made here is justified, but I would like to add, incidentally, that Hungarian society should not live in a permanent campaign in 2024, for example, almost all year round. I don't think it's healthy, and it's sharing Hungarian society, it's jumping people around in many cases if they have to spend their lives in a campaign that's almost continuous. It is therefore not healthy for us to continue this for a year in 2024, so it is justified to combine the two elections, in the spirit of social peace, and the cost-effectiveness already mentioned is a legitimate argument. However, the fact that for six months the replaced mayor or the entire mayor's leadership, the entire body of representatives should remain in office, since in many cases there will be a change, of course, to say the least, the problem of unmotivatedness, or the inability to act because of the lack of authorisation, is the most positive approach. But it is realistic to assume that in many evenings, whether as a revenge or as a last great opportunity, there is a great deal of the mayor, for example, but even a certain Member, who has abused his power, and in many cases we have seen that, in such cases, they are still stealing the joint at the last minute. In other cases, after a municipal election, the mayor's contract after a week of election is often wronged, resented by many, and rightly so. I am asking you, and I know that 99 percent of the speeches here are not really addressed to the Members, even if that is the way the speakers usually address the students at the beginning of their speech, but also to a broader public, and perhaps a little hypocrisy, but I am very sincerely asking you to really adopt the amendment that, if you do not, you may not see yet, but at the end of the spring of 2024 there will be trouble, when many replaced mayors will make tragic decisions, or they will not do anything, in those months it will not be available to local residents, and the municipality will show indecision. [[15.10]] I therefore propose that we shorten this cycle, as we can also see towards the end of the proposal in relation to the provisions on entry into force that it is possible to modify that the current term of municipal elections should not last until 1 October, but that the mandate of the municipalities should also expire on the day of the European Parliament elections. Of course, you can say that they have been signed for five years, so to speak, but a man plans, and many times, and here the Parliament is changing the daily life and the regulations that are in force on matters relating to people's daily lives. I think that they can still have a mandate of more than four years, four and a half years, and that Parliament would tell every body in advance that, in the spring of 2024 at the end of May, the mandate would end on the day of the elections to the European Parliament, and if they do their job well, of course they can continue, if they wish, in the next term. So I don't feel any injustice here, I don't feel any constitutional concerns, all the more so because we are amending the Fundamental Law itself. In this sense, however, it would be possible not to have such a delay, so that for six months a mayor who has already been replaced can make decisions or even pass the necessary decisions, since a settlement has to be operated if necessary. The fact that they want to adapt elections again to the European Union, the European Parliament, is not in itself to be supported by me in addition to the above-mentioned cost-efficiency aspect, I think that we should be much more prepared for life after the European Union. It is not certain that there will be a future EP election, this may well be the last EP election, or at least this will be the last EP election in Hungary, but this may be discussed at the next item on the agenda, on the future of the European Union. However, if there were, it would be in 2034 that there would be parliamentary, European Parliament and municipal elections at the same time, and who knows, even a one-two-three-four referendums in one day. But perhaps we could reduce the bureaucratic system a little if the elections to the European Parliament were not to be held. Dear Parliament, I also feel that the appearance of the Hungarian Movement here in Parliament has brought a small historical turn, as in 2010, even national radical Jobbik in connection with the Trianon memoirs, as we were previously described here as all sorts of extremists, racists, xenophobics, who held Trianon memoirs as a sort of underground movement, illegal, and then, with our appearance, I think we have managed to rewrite Parliament's agenda and raise the Trianon memoirs to an official state level, so, obviously, they painted it a little orange, and they are trying to make it a little celebration, but there was still a paradigm change. Similarly, the new party, led by László Toroczkai, who became party president of the Sixty-four Vármegye Youth Movement, may in some way bring back the political climate in which the name of the county which was previously rejected, even rejected at the time of the change of regime, even when the 2011 Fundamental Law was adopted, can finally be restored, which, of course, I think is more supportive, but it would be more justified to make substantial changes than traditional names. For example, it is necessary to establish the order of the Gendarmerie. Although many believe that the restoration of the word of the county is an empty and symbolic additional act on the part of the government, the sole purpose of which is to apply for the Mi Hazan Movement, but in my opinion the proposal is acceptable and eligible, since the name of the counties looks back on the historical traditions of Hungary, the achievements of our historic constitution, since the basic territorial units of our administration were the county from the establishment of the state until 1949, until the dictatorial communist regime abolished it, and it also serves to preserve the constitutional traditions and common historical monuments of Hungary for a thousand years, which is also to be welcomed from the point of view of tradition. In some respects, we are not used to our own traditions, so if it seems surprising and strange sometimes, it is desirable to return there. Just think, if the terror and the terror of the Republic of the Council could have continued, and, let us say, they would have called the ministers a public commissioner later, even today, then how much would we be moved to say that we should forget these terrorists, these commissioners of the people, and return to the term of the minister, the Latin origin or meaning of which, the servant, might cause anyone to be shocked. Why don't we go on about the Minister's term today? That's because he's been in for a long time. I think that if it hadn't been for the communist dictatorship, it would have been as accepted continuously and accepted today, as the term 'Chief' will be accepted again in a few years. In my letter to László Grespik, head of the Metropolitan Administration Office, on the turn of the century, I called László Grespik, who, I think, had done his job excellently, and I think it was too well, if you can say so, and it is no wonder that the first Orbán government quickly replaced him from his position by declaring war on our colonialization by Israel. In any case, I think the appearance of the Archbishops is also certainly welcome and more welcome than the fact that, let's say, political directors are already present here in Parliament, and instead of a State Secretary, a political director is good that he doesn't respond to us. This new amendment to the law, that there may be political directors now, does not show any real coherence with the fact that, at the same time, I would like to bring back the title of the Archbishop, in a traditional manner, but we cannot support it with the Hungarian Movement. Dear Parliament, I would be happy if I could call the body operating within the walls of this noble house not a National Assembly, but although the National Assembly has been formed since 2014 with the votes of Hungarians from abroad, they decide about one mandate, Fidesz has not once been important since then, not even in the last listing, to provide a seat for a Hungarian from across the border in the church of the nation; it seems that all we need is their votes. Since 2014, it may or may not be a national assembly, but it is not a foreign Hungarian representative. The Mi Hazank Movement, on the other hand, has written almost history: the National Assembly could have been a national assembly, if Dr. Gyula Popély, the doctor of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, started in the tenth place of our party's list of Hungarians, would have been included in the Hungarian legislation, which was a good chance. We were very hoping so, but in such a counterwind, unfortunately, we have failed to do so. However, I encourage the other parties to bring a foreign Hungarian into Parliament at least in the next term, and then, after the miscarriage in Jobbik, not only the Hungarian Movement will accomplish this, but we can really be here as the National Assembly. Finally, let me draw attention to the need for a more substantial change, which I have already mentioned in half a sentence, since by restoring the police, we can help to establish the public security of the county. This is what the Hungarian Movement calls for, as police work must be assisted by a force with authority, local knowledge, which cannot be ordered to do karma or law enforcement tasks. Therefore, besides the traditional name of the county and archbishops, there is also a need for a substantive change in order. After the two weeks that have often passed, the subculture that does not comply with the basic rules of social co-existence is spreading in Hungary, making noise, trashing, constantly disturbing and harassing the environment. In order to restore public order, it is therefore necessary to establish a garrison whose powers should be strictly delineated from the police: while the former could fulfil the task of preventing crime, the latter being an investigative officer. A gendarme in command of authority, wearing a uniform, receiving special training, would scare criminals away with its appearance. We need prevention, crime prevention, not a crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime-related crime. We propose that the powers be designed so that the police and members of the Gendarmerie can act with the necessary force against criminals in the county, and do not have to fear that they will be subjected to a measure because the criminal has additional rights, unfortunately, today. [[15.20]] It is extremely important to restore the authority of the law enforcement forces. Certain terms may also help the Corps, if appropriate. So I'm not sure that this can be developed in the current police force, and I don't think it is, in fact, in which they have been socialized, in which they have leadership, what the police have become today, such as their public judgment, there is no prestigious presence. Therefore, the liberal practice, which, unfortunately, has marked the last 30 years, must be abolished that the criminal has virtually more rights than the policeman. It is important that the gendarme is not afraid to act against the criminal, and that the criminal should not defend himself against the action on grounds of his or her origin or human rights. Above all, it is the right of decent people to safety. That's why we need to create the police, among other things, which may have seemed unrealistic a year or two ago, or very remote, but now, I think we're only two steps away from it. Thank you for your attention. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-06-28-110	Thank you. I give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's debate I would like to approach it a little further, here we have heard very equally focused comments, and I would just like to respond to what has been said before me. Here we have heard the reference to the communist past from my fellow members of the government, but also from my opposition colleague Bertalan Tóth, and you have obviously rightly referred to my fellow members of the government as trying to take steps to mitigate the devastating impact of the shameful communist dictatorship on society. The only thing I don't understand is why you didn't support the publication of Communist State Security documents, communist agent files 24 times, why you didn't support the publicity. This could take a very, very important and symbolic step. Here in the Chamber is Mr Tamás Deutsch, if I remember correctly, in 2009, before the 2010 election, you made a clear promise that if the Fidesz-KDNP were given the mandate in 2010, they would finally handle the matter of public affairs. On 24 occasions, Fidesz said no to the LMP proposal that it was not actually allowed in a series of subjects, nor were they willing to discuss it. For the record, we submitted it 25 times. I don't know, perhaps Congressman could use his authority and political influence in order to finally get to the point where this proposal goes into a series of subjects and finally have a substantive debate on this issue, many three decades after the change of regime. Now, then, back to the original proposal, the amendment of the Fundamental Law, I carefully read the justification for this proposal. Here, regarding the return of the name of the county, the authors stated that this would strengthen the idea of national cohesion, the preservation of our common historical memories and the national character of Hungarian democracy. I agree with all three objectives, so I consider all three statements and all three endeavours to be important in themselves, and I add that in this comment, I will not give them a negative indication of the name of the county of Vármegy, because I respect our national traditions deeply, and I will also try to cultivate these traditions. At the same time, I have raised the question, on the basis of the rapporteur's justification, and, on the other hand, of the thoughts expressed in the debate by my fellow members of the Government, that at this time, when we are really living in times of crisis and we must do everything we can to represent national interests, he is sure that this is the step that can best be taken in this area, this raises questions for me and for us. We can see that, and it is obvious that speaking symbolically in national matters, saying national passwords is important, but it is relatively easy. However, it is much more important to act in the interests of the nation in such a difficult, critical time, and it is obviously a much greater challenge from government positions in such a critical period and with a two-thirds mandate. I feel, by the way, that you are also moving towards symbolic politics, in a way, towards easier resistance. I think that if we were talking about the representation of national interests here, we were talking about the importance of national cohesion, and let us talk about this, because it is very important, then I think that it would be more important that a government would have done or did everything to prevent hundreds of thousands of Hungarians from emigrating for livelihoods and working abroad. And I resented it here in the last term and during the debates, when I pointed out that this is the most serious tragedy of our nation, then from the ranks of the government said to be national, state secretaries also came in such a way that there is no problem here, because there is a common labour market, and as if this is an infinitely natural process for the government calling itself national, that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are going abroad, and where appropriate, they are starting a family there, and which is tragic, they are not coming home. I think that this would be a much more important set of steps, and it should be a much more important goal in the policy of a government calling itself national. Similarly, if we are talking about our national traditions, shouldn't we finally do something to protect our cultural heritage, our built heritage, our monuments? I consider this area to be a matter of heart, and I keep track of how many tragedies, how many little tragedies are happening anyway, because these are significant losses for the nation, that our monuments are being destroyed, and this government has not strengthened the protection of our national monuments, but has reduced the protection of monuments, it has practically placed them under government offices. Government offices are there during the Prime Minister's Office, and clearly from economic interests, system level, where appropriate, they remove historic protection from important historical buildings, important historic buildings, which are an important part of Hungarian national consciousness and Hungarian national wealth. I think that this would also be a very, very important step, and they seem to be doing the opposite. Although we shouldn't be unfair here, I've had a positive impulse. I asked a written question to János Lázár, newly appointed Minister of Construction, who, surprisingly, gave me an answer regarding the destruction of monuments that he was planning to submit amendments to the legislation on the protection of monuments in September. I very much hope that this will be a positive amendment, so I also discussed a personal discussion with Minister Lazarus. But likewise, if they emphasise the importance of national cohesion, the fight for national interests, then this government should not do more to protect, for example, our common natural resources, our common rivers. It can be seen that a real tragedy, an ecological disaster is happening on the river Sajó, and as much as I try to encourage this government to do something to ensure that the Slovak Government finally does, and the Slovak authorities stop this pollution, I was told by Minister István Nagy that he does not think he is competent in this matter. I believe that this is also contrary to the ambition and communication that you have used in the case of the amendment of the basic law, this amendment of the basic law. By the way, in the previous debate, we also spoke about the constructivity of Mr Kósa, and I have drafted a political statement in defence of our rivers, which expresses the fact that it is not just our moral duty to protect our common rivers. Obviously, this has very important national policy implications, but we must make use of our rights, the border agreements, to finally act on the protection of our rivers by the authorities of neighbouring states, and Fidesz-KDNP's own constructive fractions did not even signal back when I invited them to a nine-partisan consultation, and I did not attend this debate, such a debate, so that we could speak together on such an important national issue, which would also symbolize national cohesion. I would like to set another example here, which is very, very symbolic again in order to protect our cultural heritage, our built heritage. There's a small castle in Tolna County whose case I've been following for years, and this castle has actually collapsed. This castle is state-owned, and voluntary monument protectors and experts have done their best to ensure that the government at least allows them to do whatever they can to save the castle, or at least to protect frescoes of historic value, which, by the way, represent an extraordinary value in the castle, otherwise contain reed portraits, and this government has not reached the point of giving these voluntary monument protectors an answer at all. In this case, I have also filed a complaint about the destruction of monuments, and since then, after more than a year, I have received answers to all kinds of jurisdictional internal disputes. So I think that if you want to fight for these goals and fight for these goals, you will always get the support of the LMP fraction. I believe that we are now looking at a symbolic effort behind which there are political intentions. Turning to the other important element of the motion, the question of municipal elections, the issue of the slipping of municipal and European elections at the time, I was also surprised, not only by Lajos Kósa's speech as general speaker, but also by Mr Simicskó's faction leader. Mr. Simicskó said how practical it is for the parties to conduct a campaign. [[15.30]] Is this surprising to me, the municipal election and, by the way, the European Parliament election can be classified as a simple party camp? Well, I think that the municipal elections are of paramount importance, a local elections, local actors, presenting local problems along local programmes, and presenting their proposals for empowering local voters. This is simply a task to be carried out as a party political event, which is not forward-looking, nor does it show democratic commitment, and similarly, my fellow Member, Mr Tóth, referred to this, Mr Kósa, made a very strong reference to the fact that he is trying to provide some kind of assistance, or, I do not know, an important additional result that parties here can deal with their internal conflict. I couldn't quite make sense of that. We believe that, in itself, it is not from the devil at all, if there is a European and local elections on the same day. We just think that the effort to do this should be done not now, not in this way, half or halfway through such a municipal and parliamentary term, but should have been made clear in 2019. Then such an intention could have been expressed in a completely legitimate way. Then the legislative environment could have been amended accordingly, and then the anomalies that my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, mentioned, and many of my fellow Members, would not even arise. There is also a problem that, in the autumn of 2019, there is a legally elected body for five years, and its legitimacy is basically destroyed, let's say, a 2024 spring election defeat, so in itself, I think that this will also deny the possibility of self-government action. On the other hand, it is also a serious problem that you will be authorised, sometime in April-May 24 a mayor and a body of representatives, and for six months they are practically unable to even begin to perform their duties. Indeed, there may be corruption problems mentioned by the predecessor Novák, but there may be an internal political struggle, a legitimization struggle that is formulated between the body that still holds the mandate until 1 October, but which has already lost its political mandate. So what we can say is that, in itself, slipping the two dates would not be a problem, and, by the way, it is obviously a positive result of cost reduction, but the preparation of this also raises very, very serious legal concerns on our part. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-112	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovak ethnic advocate Antal Paulik, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-113	[[???Ďakujem za slovo, Pán predseda! Köszönöm a szót, elnök úr. Vážený pán predseda, páni poslanci a pán národnostný hovorca! Vo svojom dnešnom príhovore, na základe poverenia členov Výboru národností v Maďarsku Vás oboznámim so stanoviskom nášho výboru v súvislosti s jedenástou modifikácioiu Základného zákona Maďarska. Stanovisko sme sformovali na zasadnutí výboru dvadsiateho siedmeho júna.???]] Mr President, Congresswoman! Congressman Lords! Dear Speaker, In my speech today, on behalf of the members of the Committee on Hungarian Nationalities, I will present our committee's position on the eleventh amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary. The position was established by our committee on 27 June. As an introduction, it may not be useless to recall the circumstances of the former development and adoption of the Fundamental Law, especially with regard to two facts. On the one hand, the fact that, at the time of the preparation and adoption of the Fundamental Law, which is still in force, the advocates or representatives of nationalities had not yet taken part in Parliament's work. In my opinion, the other relevant fact is that, at the same time as preparing the Fundamental Law, there has already been a broad consultation to help re-regulation of nationality rights, i.e. essentially to prepare the law on the rights of nationalities that are still in force today. There must be more people in this room who remember the content and certain elements of the constitution that existed before the Fundamental Law was adopted. The former constitution contained no reference to the parliamentary representation of nationalities in Hungary, which are part of the political nation, and their participation in the work of the Parliament. During the preparation of the Fundamental Law, the presidents of national minority self-governments asked for changes to this situation during personal consultations and in their written proposals. Our further demands essentially included that the rights of nationalities should not be limited by the new Fundamental Law and that progressive elements of the previous legislation should be included in the new legislation. At the request of the then Constitutional Preparation ad hoc committee of the National Assembly, four national ethnic authorities submitted written proposals for the preparation of the Fundamental Law. These proposals, with the exception of some of the powers that were previously not regulated in the Constitution, but in the Law on the Rights of National and Ethnic Minorities, appeared in the proposal submitted to Parliament by the Fundamental Law. The then proposal stated that the right to nationality status, the right to collective participation in public life as a party to the nation's power, the right to own culture, mother tongue, the use of mother tongue, the right to mother tongue education, the right to use names in their own language and the right to representation and self-government as a fundamental right should be defined as a fundamental right. In other words, the Fundamental Law states that nationalities can create local and national self-governments, that detailed rules on the rights of nationalities in Hungary are laid down by a fundamental law, and that the participation of nationalities in Hungary is also governed by a fundamental law in the work of the National Assembly. As a result of this last provision read out, during the next parliamentary elections in 2014, the Speakers of Nationalities could appear in the National Assembly, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities could be established, which could then be an active participant and may be an active participant in the legislative process. We believe and this is confirmed by the day-to-day legislative work in Parliament, and it cannot be stressed enough how important this event was in the life of ethnic communities living in our country. Having been able to play an active role and play an active role in the preparation of the provisions of the Fundamental Law on nationalities, it was also self-evident that its final draft had been adopted. We can point out that the legislation adopted did not contain a step backwards, clarifications or progress in relation to nationality rights. Dear House, The most important element in the collective exercise of national minority communities is the implementation of minority self-government elections. The current legislative environment well designates the place of minority self-government elections in the Hungarian public law system. The Fundamental Law XXVII. Article 2 (2) states that nationalities in Hungary may establish local and national minority self-governments. As regards the election day, the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure Law 309/09 §2 contains the following: the general election of the representatives of the local government is scheduled by the National Election Committee no later than the 69th day before the day of the vote, the day of the general election of the representatives and mayors of the local government. Articles 1 and 2 of the basic law amendment proposal we are discussing here state that the election of local government representatives and mayors should be held at the same time as the election of MEPs in April-May-June or July of the fifth year following the previous municipal election. At the same time, the mandate of the members of the body of representatives and the mayor is proposed to run until October of the election year. This provision does not include any reference to the mandate of the members and the chairman of the body representing the national self-governments. At the same time, the 2011 CLXXIX, which summarises the rights of nationality. The provisions of the Act derive both the term of office and the date of establishment of the newly elected body from the day of election. As the draft amendment of certain electoral and related laws is going to be presented to the plenary this very day, I do not wish to give a detailed statement in my speech on the uncertainties that have arisen, my fellow advocate for that bill will do so. I just want to say that this issue will also have to be addressed by this House. Honourable Members, Dear Speaker, Let us look at the content of the current bill from another perspective; at the same time, I would still insist on the powers of our committee, the representation of national interests. As we know, most of the ethnic communities in Hungary have been established in their present villages and cities at the same time as the development of historical Hungary or during its thousand years of existence. The centuries-old presence, co-existence with the emerging Hungarian majority, and one of the consequences of the social development of a given nationality different from that of a state-making majority, are that the culture of the community has become a key element in the lives of our communities today, in other words, the language of nationality, which was mostly developed before the renewal of the language, its centuries-old traditions and cultural heritage. The guarantee of the survival of our nationalities in our common country is the Fundamental Law, as well as the related fundamental and other professional laws. At the same time, it is no less important that we adhere to our cultural heritage, our language, our traditions, to the survival of our communities. This connection is reflected in the work of all our national governments, our national and local NGOs, but also our committees. All draft laws initiated by our committee in recent years have been examined and examined in terms of influence on traditional ethnic values. [[15.40]] It's the only way we can meet the expectations of our communities. The importance of preserving traditions in the life of nationalities makes it clear to us the intention of the authors to return to the former traditional Hungarian name of the counties, the county. Respect for traditions, as has been shown earlier, plays a very prominent and important role in our communities. Therefore, we respect the intention with which the authors insist or wish to return to historically established concepts and designations. I am not a linguist, so I just mention that the Slavic languages also know the name of the county in the form of medja, mety, medza, or the word "Spanish" or "Slavic" also have the equivalents of the Slavic that are still used today, such as the word "Slavic" or the name of the county. Based on the historical fact that the Slavic peoples living in the Carpathian Basin had already begun to build the church administration before the Hungarian conquest, it is assumed that already in this period, the IX. In the middle of the century, the Latin medium interval pro meano, i.e. accessible medium and area was used to describe the county of ecclesiastical estates in Slavic language. As a result of the pre-existing territorial designation of ecclesiastical estates, during the consolidation of St. Stephen, the formation of the new medieval state structure, the system of so-called royal countys was established, where the concept of the county of the former Catholic Church, which was dominated by the chiefs of the family, surrounded and intended to serve its fortresses and castles, was preserved. Following historical beginnings, the middle-level administrative units of the country have been known in various signalling structures as the county of the castle for several centuries. Following the administrative reform carried out in 1870, the so-called bourgeois county was established by separating public administration and judicial proceedings. If I understand correctly, the present bill wishes to return to the system used in this sense in the county of Vármegy. On the basis of the reasons set out above, our committee considered that, in the spirit of tradition, our committee could recommend the T/361 to the Parliament. the adoption of a draft law amending the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. .akujem Vám za posornosť. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2022-06-28-114	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Eve of Scars, representative of Momentum. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-115	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I did not intend to speak at this item on the agenda, but I was inspired by our fellow Member Novák, so I would finally like to speak. I would like to say good morning to the Member, because he is not only a candidate for cross-border representation on your list, but also on the Momentum list, Endre Tomos, head of the Basic Organisation of Momentum in Transylvania. I go on: in 2017, in the very first election programme of the Momentum, we have already included the idea of creating the 107 and 108 oevk during the chapters of the Free Country. Currently there are 106 individual Members present in Parliament, which we would have extended with the 107 and 108 oevk, one point would have provided individual representation to the dedicated representative of the Hungarians from abroad, which is currently not available, and the other would have been dedicated to the diaspora Hungarians, which is also not currently. Once again, we are talking about 2017. At that time, our homeland Movement did not have a program, but it was not even a thought. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-116	Thank you. For the next two minutes, I will give the floor to Zoltán Kovács, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-117	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Perhaps, for personal concern, I would reflect with some thought on the words of the lead speakers. I was mayor, I was also a government commissioner, and if I came up with the term "government commissioner," I was appointed as Commissioner, but when I told you, especially for older people, what my title and function was, and I said that the senior class, the high priest, understood that, by the way, did not understand. To return to tradition, therefore, I think it is important, even if David Bedő considers this to be a joke. That's the difference between us and you, because that's the word you used, that it's not worth wasting any more words, and we respect tradition. Since the protection of national heritage has emerged in the context of traditions, I would like to say that the amount of money that has never been spent on castle and castle programmes has never been spent in the past 12 years. Only in the 14-18 cycle, I remember that 54 billion HUF was spent on castle and castle programs, from which emblematic national heritage was renewed. It is never the system that decides what we do, but what the activity is like in this circle. Regarding the mayor's election, Lajos Kósa referred to 94. I've lived through that. From October to December, everyone expected to see when the two-thirds majority MSZP-SZDSZ government set out the municipal elections, so the election was set in December. Not only could they not agree with each other that the conflict of interest rules would be abolished, but the preparation of the Bokros package was then and they did not want to bring it into Parliament, while the municipal elections took place. So much for democracy. Since my two minutes are up, I'll be back in two minutes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-28-118	Thank you very much. For the next two minutes, I will give the floor to David Bedő, on behalf of Momentum.
u2022-06-28-119	Thank you very much. I thought you'd get the wrong idea. I didn't say the dungeons were the clowns. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: But that's what you said! Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can.]] And looking back on our history, that would be a joke. I said what you guys are doing about this is clowning. Those were my specific words, you can look back at the record, you can look at it, you'll find this in it. But while I'm speaking, I'd like to add one or two more things to my previous statement. Several highlighted, too, my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, my fellow Member, Lóránt Keresztes, what will happen during the six months of this interregnum period in the municipalities. It would really be worthwhile to get a meaningful answer to this, because corruption is just one thing, that they might evacuate the state register, that mayors who are about to resign are given some sort of assignment, but it really is important to get a meaningful answer, because I do not trust that you are really changing your opinion and that this constitutional amendment is not being pushed through. They're gonna push it over, just like they always do. So, it would really be nice to get a meaningful answer to that. Another such question, which I have never heard in this debate, and I wanted to ask. Have you considered that during that period, in the six months between May and October, what will happen to those who are 18 years of age in that period, what will happen to the people who have unfortunately died in that period? Then they're the same, I assume, they can't vote. I just wanted to clarify this and to ask you clearly what is actually going to happen in the six months between taking office and the election, because there is no such thing as this time between the election and the entry into office. So the time of the election is the date of the vote, and then, in the period when you're only, say, three months later 18, you can't vote accordingly? Am I reading this right? That's what I wanted to find out. Thank you.
u2022-06-28-120	Thank you, Congressman. For the next two minutes, I'll give the floor to Novak Elõk. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-121	Dear Parliament, I am pleased that the National Assembly is already on the agenda for a little debate, and I am pleased that the Momentum, in response to this, brought up the fact that out of the 106 constituencies, it would have nominated a foreign country to the 107th and 108th place, and it was added on the list, but the Congresswoman did not say that the 124th place, as I look at it, was being allocated 93 seats in total. So they didn't even give a mathematical chance to get a foreigner in. And I argued that, beyond the symbols, he should be present in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Lőrinc Nacsa, Dr. Sigismund Brown, pointing to Paul's place: Sitting here!]] Or since 2014, we could call it a national assembly, a foreign Hungarian representative. Of course, it is possible to talk about who comes from and who has a grandfather, but the fact that someone is a foreign Hungarian to work in the church of the nation as a way of life, why not a Hungarian from Bratislava as a Hungarian from Pécs, I miss that, and the Momentum did not even give me the chance to do so in mathematics. But I'm glad they put it in a symbolic place at least on the level of intent. I said that Gyula Popély was the closest in 2010 to the place of Jobbik's 50th, in a much larger parliament then, and now in the 10th place on the list of the Hungarian Movement. [[15.50]] But regardless of the person, I urge it, and I am glad that other parties will also consider that it is time, in addition to the titles, to make this National Assembly a proper assembly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-28-122	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc for two minutes. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-123	Thank you very much. I would only correct the Fore Novák: Our colleague, Barna Pál Zsigmond, was born and raised in Târgu Mures, and he was also a Consul General in Miercurea Ciuc. [[Forebod Novak: Where does he live?!]] You've spent the greater part of your life on that side of the border, so in that respect, I'd reject that. By the way, Fidesz-KDNP is included in the European Parliament list of our fellow Member from Vojvodina who lives in Vojvodina, our fellow Member from Transcarpathia and who lives in Transcarpathia, and there are even representatives of Transylvania in the colours of DAHR. So I think that we in both the electoral alliances and in the electoral lists have done everything in our power to ensure that our brothers across the border are properly represented here, in Parliament or in the European Parliament. I would like to tell Congressman Bedő that I have such fears. András Piko, Tamás Soproni, Imre László, Gergely Karácsony, László Kiss, Péter Niedermüller, Tibor Déri, I have such fears about how they will... Let's say, when the corona virus was used to contract the criminal with Csaba Czeglédy, what would... [[On the sign of David Bedő:]] The criminal with Csaba Czeglédy, honourable Member, you voted in favour of this Treaty in accordance with Rule XIV. In the district, for example, I'd like to know what they're doing in this interregnum state. That is also my point, honourable Member. And when you're 18 years old... I have an acquaintance who was born on April 4th this year. He couldn't vote, honourable Member, that's the law. There's a day of election, and there's people who were born before it, and there's people who were born after it. We have a common friend, a family friend, who spent his 18th birthday on April 4, and he will have the opportunity to take part in the parliamentary elections in four years' time. I think that reason is very weak, because in the world, the electoral system was so when I was 18 years old, I couldn't vote in the first round, and I couldn't vote in the second round. That is our electoral system, and so is biology, honourable Member, it is a shame to deny that. The date of the election is quite clear, who then reached the age of 18, and those who have not reached the age of 18 may not vote. We know that there were voices in the Momentum that wanted to take away the right to vote from the elderly, and that this has come to you on a regular basis, and we would argue in favour of universal suffrage. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to László László Keresztes, on behalf of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to respond a little bit to what was said in the debate. I'm always happy to have a debate, and I asked for a normal word because I might not fit in two minutes. Congressman Nacsa and I have once debated this interregnum, which, under Covid, conferred the mayor with the powers of the bodies, and then we saw that the Fidesz mayor of Szekszárd and Komló had specifically rewritten the budgets previously adopted by the representatives elected by the people, and made a series of decisions in a person that had nothing to do with the protection against the Crown Virus. Then you raised a question to me, or asked me, that I spoke at a time when the mayor of Pécs had appointed a third deputy mayor in the same period of one person competence or during such an interregnum; then I spoke against it, and expressed my disagreement, and that the city had no reason to appoint another deputy mayor. And I would like to ask Congressman Nacsa that you have raised your word when Fidesz MEPs have abused the extraordinary authority given by you in an extraordinary legal order. Returning a little to the subject of the bill and to one of the main topics of the amendment of the basic law, it has been said here earlier that you have vacated the county itself, the rights of the county government, they have taken away the institutions, they have taken away its funding, they have taken away the powers of decision. I remember, even when we had this debate, I was a local councilman in Pécs, and they pushed this measure over in a very interesting way, then, Csaba Nagy, current congressman, well, I don't know, maybe he was a deputy mayor in Pécs at the time, and we had this debate with him, and your nationalization was so successful in citing signs that, in fact, the county institutions of Baranya were transferred to state authority, that even the house of the county, so Baranya's county, which was built in 1931, and an iconic symbolic building of the city of Pécs and Baranya County, had managed to pass on to the state, practically disregarding the county, otherwise, as an administrative unit, and as a very important historical point of relations. I spoke at the time as an opposition representative, and I asked that every stone be moved, that this particular building, this county of Baranya, which was the original county of that time, could be returned to the county's property in a multi-circular procedure. But I think that it would be important, for example, to take into account the powers which could otherwise increase the powers of the counties, and that, in today's debate, the institution of the Polish Vojvodina as an example, not only at the name level, but also at the power level, I consider it very exemplary. Vojvodina has extremely extensive, important and powerful powers, and this is also felt in development policy, they can do much more in the fight against corruption, and they can do much more, so to speak, the middle level of administrative organisation in development policy. I have always seen this as an example of the seat of the Polish Vojvodina of Transcarpathia, the town of Rzeszów, which is about the size of the city of Pécs, and also the seat of a poor region in a very poor EU comparison, but at what amazing speed it can develop compared to Pécs and what amazingly greater resources it can provide for development. And I think that it is important to simplify the local government system so to say, so that the mid-level decision-making system can be examined in this way, how to increase the effectiveness of development policy, territorial development and rural development, and this could certainly be an important role for the county, and it could not be done by a name, renaming or renaming, even if, let us say, many of us sympathize with that name. And what is very important, and for which I have pressed the button, is that I would like to speak, the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Kovács, on the protection of monument protection and built heritage. I acknowledge that, during the period of governance since 2012, there have been considerable efforts to protect our built heritage, and I regret that this has often happened in such a way that, in some way, these resources have landed in the renovation of castles or monuments belonging to individuals associated with the Fidesz Moonyard or the Fidesz Economic Moonyard, but overall, I recognise that there are efforts to do so, and it is certainly worthy of recognition that this has appeared at political level. However, you can also see, ladies and gentlemen, that our historic buildings are being destroyed at an astonishing and rapid rate, and especially those buildings in which, let us say, there is little tourist potential for certain economic operators in the vicinity of fire. I mentioned in particular, I did not want to go into this in more detail, I specifically mentioned a dying castle, which is the veterinary horse of this entire monument protection system or a broken monument protection system, and I reported it there in May of last year, didn't I, in state reserve, state-owned the castle, that castle is crumbling, and they simply don't allow voluntary conservation professionals near it, so the Hungarian state owner doesn't give volunteers a chance to defend this devastating architectural value and protect the works of art that exist there, which are very important in itself. And not so long ago the police responded, after a month and a month in which they refused to report me on the fact that, despite the fact that I had given the police a perfectly clear picture of the destruction of a historic building, of the total neglect of a monument protection, he wrote back that the historic protection laws did not define the tasks of the owner with sufficient precision, so they could not determine either the sloppy treatment or the fraudulent treatment, which is a freak. So the police say that today's monument protection laws are worthless, because the owner, the owner of the monument building, is not determined in an exact manner. That is why I mentioned that it is important that Minister Lazarus gave me a semi-positive feedback on his plans to transform the legal environment for the protection of monuments. I am very, very confident that these anomalies can finally be dealt with, and a process can start, so that these buildings, which are in a touristly unfreaked place and which are now dying, which are part of our built heritage and which form important elements of national wealth, can really be saved. I would like to respond briefly to Congressman Nacsa. I think it is important, however, that this is not only a symbolic, important step, that Fidesz-KDNP has given Hungarian MEPs outside the European Parliament the opportunity to take part in EU decision-making this is also necessary. We have had a lot of discussions, and I have always said my own experiences, that we can see how much the European political elite does not want to deal with the rights of indigenous national minorities, so it bounces off European politics in some way. At the same time, honourable Member, if we are talking about this, I would also ask you for your help to have so many efforts in Fidesz-KDNP, which calls itself a national, that when, let us say, such a tragedy happens, such as what has happened now with the river Sajó, such an ecological tragedy, where the Slovak authorities and ministries have been paralyzed for months watching what is happening, and they still haven't solved the situation, or when we can see that toxic substances of even more serious composition in the tributaries of the Tisza in Transylvania are sometimes entering the river, and, in fact, these already appear on the Hungarian river sections, the Hungarian government should move and do something. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) [[16.00]] Not only will Minister István Nagy hold video conferences with the Slovak Minister for the Environment, but also go to the site and demand action through legal options, border agreements. Do whatever you can to protect our rivers. I do not understand you, Congressman Nacha. I called the nine factions together to draft a political statement in order to declare the importance of protecting our common natural resources, how important it is to express the importance of the Carpathian Basin not only as a historical region, but also as a natural region, and that we must act together. Today's critical period underlines this effort even more, and not even one response, not even the KDNP or the Fidesz fractions, is that in any way they would like to take such an important step, which would be a very important political step not only symbolic but also concretely. I think that when we can see that we cannot defend our common rivers alone, that we have sent a message either to the Slovak Government and society or to the Romanian Government, that there is full agreement in this matter, regardless of party policy, we require the protection of our common natural resources. I think that not only the protection of our natural resources, but also the responsibility for Hungarian communities abroad, we are obliged to take these steps together and effectively. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-126	Thank you very much. The next comment is David Bedő, a representative of Momentum.
u2022-06-28-127	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad that my fellow Member Nacha shares our concern. Then let's find a solution or suggest something about how we're going to bridge this interregnum period, because it's really problematic. I find it particularly funny that he highlights the Piko and Tamás Soproni, because none of them were involved in any corruption scandal, unlike, say, the former mayor of the 1st District, who on the night of the 2019 election, after losing, loaded the documents in a truck, and exactly our current president caught them in this regard. So, I think the problem on your side is that after six months, you can make anything, money or documents disappear. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Csaba Czegledy!]] It's interesting that he highlights Czegledy. He claimed that we had voted on this, but that was not voted by any general assembly, I might add, but let's put that aside now. I was talking about Piko, and I was talking specifically about Tamás Soproni, because my fellow Member Nacsa highlighted their names. The things you say, my fellow Member, are in a completely different place in the country, so whatever. But back to the debate on the actual Fundamental Law, he mentioned that those who have passed their 18th year or have not completed their 18th year are not allowed to vote. You're absolutely right about that. Those who vote on the day of the vote may always vote mutatis mutandis... And there are a lot of examples of how many other countries have one day the EP election and one day the municipal election. However, I do not think that he can set many examples where six months later is the time to take office than the election itself. This may be one of the biggest problems here, and, of course, it is in your political interest to have these two elections on the same day. But I already said that in my lead speech, so I'm not gonna do it again. Thank you.
u2022-06-28-128	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz.
u2022-06-28-129	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Today's debate is about to turn into a heritage debate. This is important, by the way, but I would like to say that the facts always speak for themselves. In terms of heritage conservation: I remember as mayor when it was a regional separate heritage office. The inspector couldn't be found. When we were looking for him in Győr, he was in Fejér County when we were looking for him in Fejér County, and he was in Veszprém County. Today, the organization is responsible and catch-up, that's my opinion. But that is not the point, but I would like to say, through our own example, that the renovation of the Esterházy Castle in Pápa took place only during the Orbán government between 1998 and 2002 and after 2010. That's when the money came in. When the socialists governed, they didn't add a spoonful of iron, that's the case. They speak for themselves. And as for the election, we're really talking about saving money, saving money. And here Mr. Bertalan Tóth expressed his concern about the costs and expenses. You weren't worried then, and you may not have been a congressman in Pécs yet, but we know the story from our friends in Pécs that when Bertalan Tóth, if I remember correctly, took a million-dollar reward this morning, but that wasn't enough, he went back this afternoon and took another million-dollar reward. In someone else's eyes, he doesn't notice the splint, and in his own eyes he doesn't notice the beam. As for John Lazarus: I worked with him, I think that heritage protection will be in the right place there. John Lazarus is also committed in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-130	Thank you very much. Two-minute comments, first from Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz.
u2022-06-28-131	Withdrawn, Mr. President.
u2022-06-28-132	He took it back, thank you. He didn't take it back. It's time for Novak to meet you, representative of our country.
u2022-06-28-133	Thank you for the floor. David Bedő did not speak the truth earlier, and he forgot that there was a former XI. He's a district rep who can disprove his lie. After all, Csaba Czeglédy, a political criminal who had already been convicted before 2010, presented a proposal for his mandate as a local government immediately at the beginning of the cycle and on numerous occasions, and Dávid Bedő himself voted in 2019. So the statement that you just said that you didn't vote for any general assembly is not true. But he voted! The representative body of the fifth largest municipality in the country, the most populous district of the capital, the largest municipality of Újbuda, voted on my proposal, and unfortunately, Dávid Bedő did not support the withdrawal of Csaba Czeglédy's legal mandate. Thus, you can receive a monthly salary of HUF 1.4 million from NewBuda alone, Csaba Czeglédy, after the Momentum and Jobbik and LMP have protested against its unsold mandate in nice words. When it had to be voted on, unfortunately, this was no longer supported. So much for the separation of words and actions. Returning to the transition between Parliament and the National Assembly, I am glad that Lőrinc Nacsa was forced to explain a little bit and feels that he should explain this certificate. Indeed, when you've won so many times over, I think you could've had plenty of room for a foreign congressman. Although I admire the fellow Member of the Sigismund Brown, who has five children, he is not a foreigner; he is of foreign origin, but that is a completely different thing. He has already graduated from the university in Budapest, he lives in Budapest, he is our truncated-Hungarian compatriot. In fact, in this respect, I find the message particularly harmful that if a foreign Hungarian MP wants to be an MP, he should leave his homeland. We should send a message that from Bratislava we can go to work in the church of the nation in the same way as, say, Pécs, and I hope that sooner or later you can be a foreign member of the Parliament, and then we can really call this body a national assembly. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-28-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs for two minutes, KDNP.
u2022-06-28-135	Thank you very much. Congressman Novak beat me to it. Then let's be clear: David Bedő and Csaba Czeglédy entered into a contract with the criminal. [[The First of Novak: Shame!]] So that citizens can't know what the criminal has signed with Csaba Czeglédy. It's as simple as that. You are talking, my honourable fellow Member, about the right-wing mayor being suspected of corruption. But you're the one who wanted to sell the Kelenföld city centre. You even wanted to sell the Town Hall, my honourable fellow Member. The fact is that there are plenty of mayors on the left and among them the momentous mayors of these cases, and the municipalities where you were sitting, for example, where you were sitting, the XI. district municipality. Tell me about Tibor Déri's jokes here in case we ever talk about the mayors. I would say to Mr President Novak that then he is not XI. It's district because he doesn't live there. You're just commuting, so don't look at XI. Precinct if he doesn't live there. Barna Pál Zsigmond is a cross-border representative who serves the issue of Hungarians across the border with all his heart. He has done so all his life, no matter what position he has held, here in Parliament, also as Consul General, and previously with any social, public or business assignment. To question this and to make such scornful remarks about who lives where and where they enter Parliament in this way, I think it is unworthy. My fellow Member is not here, which is why I must protect him because he cannot defend himself, because you accuse him of not being able to defend himself. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this can be done very simply in this debate: we have a cross-border Member and you do not have a cross-border Member. But I don't think it's the competition. Fidesz-KDNP did the most for Hungarian communities across the border in this Parliament. There are those who denied them, and there are those who have always embraced them and supported them. That is the difference, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-136	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kósa, President of the Commission, the rapporteur is taking the floor. [[16.10]]
u2022-06-28-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Just to be a little more focused, I would like to inform the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the following points. The item on the agenda for the amendment of the Fundamental Law does not concern the Polish administration system and its structure of powers, nor is it subject to Article XI. Csaba Czeglédy, who is indeed a well-known criminal, and you have actually supported his assignment, is factual. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Gergely Harvesto: But this is not the subject!]] But there is no doubt that this is not the subject of this proposal. It also does not cover the protection of monuments, the protection of the built environment and the renovation of the castle, and there are many things that are not yet covered [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The Sajó!]] Not to mention Sajó. These are all very important problems. I wouldn't want to give the impression that Csaba Czeglédy's well-known criminal assignment is the XI. by district government it would be insignificant [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Like so many things, not to mention the pollution of Sajó. I just want to ask that these cannot be answered at the end of the debate. [[Gergely Arató: But the debate is not over, you just intervened!]] because we are simply talking about the name of the county instead of the county, otherwise, according to our thousand-year tradition, or that we would like to organise municipal elections and elections to the European Parliament one day in 2024. For the record, there are a lot of important points in the debate that I'd like to respond to, but I can't, but otherwise it's very important. [[Gergely Harvester: Because you're talking!]] , XI. District, Csaba Czeglédy's assignment, but it's not relevant. So I would like to ask our fellow Members to be a little more focused or more focused. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-138	Thank you very much. David Bedő's two-minute speech, Momentum.
u2022-06-28-139	Thank you very much for the floor. I have not yet agreed with Lajos Kósa, and I truly thank you for your contribution. That is why I find it a huge problem to ask the same question for the third time, what will happen in the six months between the election and the entry into office, and to which we will receive these answers from my fellow Member Nacsa, and then Előd Novák brought the Czeglédy Treaty here. I really thought I'd get rid of this subject after the assembly, but I have to bring this in here, it's a very exciting topic. So, I'd really like to get an answer about what's gonna happen this six-month, how they're gonna stop mayors and councils from giving contracts. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: For example, Csaba Czeglédy!]] Czeglédy to Csaba [[Defiance.]] public procurement or any contract. How will they prevent documents from being removed in that six - month period? What are the answers to that? I really need a clear answer to that. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-140	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[Gergely Harvesto: Don't hold back!]] I don't see any contact... [[For signal:]] The two-minute speech of Eve Sebők will follow.
u2022-06-28-141	Thank you very much for the floor. I just want to learn a little from you, Mr Kósa, a long time's experience. Help me that beyond Csaba Czeglédy, the subject of this circle may be Margit Tat, a recently convicted Fidesz mayor of the Beehive Wheel, or the subject of a convicted Fidesz Mayor István Mokán, or the subject of his old friend György Simonka, who is also an ex-fidesz Member of Parliament on the border of condemnation. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-142	Thank you. Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, two minutes old, Fidesz.
u2022-06-28-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am honored that you have spoken so long about me in Parliament, and I thank Lőrinc Nacsa for the kind words, and my mother probably wouldn't recognize me, and you were so kind to me, and the congressman praised me. I'm asking the left-hand side not to make any ratings on my origins and my life trip, if possible. I am pleased that Hungary has a government that thinks in a nation, thinks in a united Hungarian nation, and I am sad that the left does not think in a nation. [[Gergely Arató: Is the predecessor of Novak left? Deterioration in opposition benches.]] So, thank you again, Lawrence... [[Olga Kálmán and David Bedő pointed to the predecessor of Novák: He was the predecessor of Novak!]] I'm talking about the left. You don't think in the nation. I'm talking about you, that party alliance. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] which, during the election campaign, was constantly attacking the national side. I am talking about the parties that here make a strong statement to the nation, while they represent Romanian parties in Romania and Slovak parties in Slovakia, and I can list here the incitements that were made during the election campaign against Hungarians across the border either in relation to the letter vote or in relation to other matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-144	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman Kósa says yes. You have the floor.
u2022-06-28-145	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said in this debate. A quick help to Éva Sebők: the amendments you have listed are not as much the subject of the current amendment as the scandals of Katalin Czech about the abuse of applications in Europe or the molestation and other scandals involving the Donáth family. These are not the subject of this debate. In fact, a lot has been said in the debate, which really does not belong here, but I would like to clarify a few things. I do not think it fair that Bertalan Tóth accuses the Prime Minister and the Speaker of the fact that in communist organizations there were contributors to the construction of communism in Hungary, the only successor party in the Hungarian Parliament says this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: DK too!]] DK is at least a newly established organisation and not a successor party. As Sándor Fábri brilliantly noted at the time, that it would be possible, in the Bundestag, to speak to the young representative of the Reform Nazi Party, Martin Bormann Jr. talks about the need to reduce the budget of the Berlin Holocaust museum immediately because there are budgetary difficulties. That's completely absurd, isn't it? [[Defiance.]] This was done in the Hungarian Parliament: the Socialist Party, a representative of the former Communist Party's successor party, spoke in the budgetary debate and demanded that we reduce the budget of the House of Terror Museum because there are budgetary difficulties. So we understand absurd things, but that's one of them. It is particularly unfair to say that the people involved are unable to respond. But I would just like to record that neither László Kövér nor Viktor Orbán has ever been a member of any organization building communism, so this accusation is absurd from Bertalan Tóth. With regard to bringing the two elections to one day, I would like to emphasise now the other, how should I put it, the strange thing that has been said here in this debate, I do not want to go away, because it would take the word away. First of all, it is very important that this is a transitional regulation in the sense that it is not about introducing a system where the term of office of the municipalities continues to run until October, but the election is in some strange way in April, May or June, but we would like to choose this solution on a one-off basis, and from now on the election of the municipal system would be in sync with their term of office. It's this transition time that can cause confusion, and otherwise, I admit that it raises questions. Although I would add that there is also democratic experience in other countries that there is a significant difference between the day of election and the time of taking office, see United States [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Germany!]] Germany. There it is resolved, political culture, and there it is a system, so it is not a coincidence that this is the occasion, because they are synchronizing the election periods, but it is the system that is constantly there that the election takes place in the United States on November 4th, and at some point in the middle of January the president takes office, otherwise somehow the United States is fine. In Germany, there is a similar system. So I think, fortunately, that is not the case here. Another question is that it does raise questions. So much more conveniently approaching the question, Novak Előd has raised this question, that there really is an election sometime in the late spring, early summer, depending on how the European Parliament election is, and then there is a lame duck state, minimum unmotivatedness and failure to accept responsibility, because if the leadership fails or is replaced or doesn't start again, it will fill in the mandate and what will happen with it. [[16.20]] There is experience in Hungary, but we must have forgotten about it. At a time when the status of Hungarian MPs changed in 2014 when it was not possible to hold a local and parliamentary position, there was a transitional period, and in 2014 the elected Members who were mayors or municipal representatives still maintained their position until 18 October 2014, but with the certainty that there would no longer be mayors and local government officials, because otherwise they could not leave if they were elected to Parliament in spring. It is also true that, in this case, Parliament's mandate was a greater responsibility, and this may have slowed down abuses, but I just want to say that at that time, but I should be rebutted if I was wrong, there was no mass abuse or mass paralysis in the municipal system at all. There were a lot of conflict of interest rules changed, there was this system, but somehow we solved it. But, in the case where appropriate, recognising the legitimacy of the suggestion, it may be possible to think that we are making a transitional provision that is trying to deal with this situation, while, moreover, the solution proposed by the President of Novak raises serious constitutional concerns. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Therefore, I think that it is in no way possible in the Fundamental Law, but it is possible to think about how to deal with the problems that arise in this way. I would like to add that, compared to 2014, the current government office, which will be run by future high priestess, has a wider power, as stated in the municipal law, to curb questionable or questionable decisions or, where appropriate, to initiate proceedings against them. I, however, consider the colleagues at the head of the municipalities, the representatives of the local government in the municipal bodies, to be honest, in the vast majority of cases more responsible and reliable than that in such a case, they are now selling the end, not staying, if they fail the election, they are seeking to loot the office or the city, or I do not know what abuse they are committing. I'm telling you again, you can think about it, it's open, but I'm sure it doesn't have to be handled in the Fundamental Law. The other concern that David Bedő raised has simply been so, and will continue to be so, nothing will change. On the day of the election, who has the right to vote, who doesn't have the right to vote, doesn't vote, and if after that he wakes up his suffrage, reaches the age of 18, ends the ban on public affairs, or anything else that made him unable to exercise his suffrage, it will revive you in the next election. It doesn't affect entry into office, it's always been the case, and it's still the case, and there are no such problems here. If I have understood the debate correctly, dear Members, the name of the County of Vársaság is what my fellow Member Pósán may have said in the Expoze, and I myself believe that it is more tasteful or traditional, so I see that we are not arguing about this. There is no doubt, however, that although it is not the subject of the debate, it is possible to argue whether the tasks and powers of the future municipalities in the county of Vármegy are okay. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the development of regional development programmes and the management of the TOP programmes outside the county-righted city are the responsibility of the municipalities, so they have the right to think, but they can think that this is okay. This is a continuous debate on which we can see how the Hungarian administration is changing, how the development of the various areas is developing, and then obviously we must respond to this, so this has always changed over the past period. So, even if the county becomes a county, it doesn't mean that from now on you can't think about whether the authority, the function is right, change it or change it. Regional development is particularly serious, which concerns the county. On the other question, let me just say that if my expo was misunderstood, I apologise, but I was trying to point out that the essence of democracy is, after all, that the electorate decides, and that there is two levels of political competition between the various political elites: one within the party and the other between the parties. The democratic competition within the Party, of course, depends on what the internal party democracy is, so it is undisputed that the struggle between the parallels marks, for example, the candidates who are running for election. I was only referring to this, but this may be something called a pre-election, although it is more complicated, because the point is not the elite struggle within the parties, but between the parties, only in such a strange way, but for example, it is obvious that when the party elects president, for example, in the case of Momentum, who will be the president instead of Anna Donáth, then the coupletelites will fight with each other, there they will choose someone, and then the couple will determine who the candidates for the Momentum, for example, will be, say, a municipal election or a parliamentary election. That's all I was suggesting. This is perfectly normal for all parties, it comes from the system, and the normal thing is that if a country has this two-level competition, once between the parallels and then between the parties. What is not good is that if the operational system of democratic institutions creates a situation where it is curbing it and does not give way, that is what I was trying to refer to. Overall, I see that it may not cause such a storm to the counties of changing county names, but the two elections, the elections to the European Parliament and the simultaneous holding of the municipal elections, I see that it causes political problems, or at least it was not very supportive here. We would definitely like to do this, not because it has some kind of special political interest, but we think that it is a much better construction for normal life than if there are election periods in Hungary, that every four years there is a parliamentary election, a European Parliament election every five years, at a different time, and then there is another municipal election of five years. If we synchronize these two five-year-olds, then I think we've made a significant step forward in making the country's policy normal. Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-146	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Kósa. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on the Hungarian position to be taken on the future of the European Union will follow. Presentation submitted by Members László Kövér, Fidesz, Zsolt Semjén, KDNP, István Simicskó, Máté KDNP, Kocsis, Fidesz, Zsolt Németh, Fidesz, Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz and Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, H/364. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Richard Hörcsik, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman, here on the bench.
u2022-06-28-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen. Dear fellow Members, Of the dozens of proposals for decisions that have just been tabled to this House during the parliamentary term, I believe that it is of particular importance, since it is one of the proposals that will determine the situation of Hungary to a large extent in the coming years. How can the substance of the proposal be summarised in short? [[16.30]] As stated in the title succinctly, the Parliament therefore declares what form to take in the future of cooperation between the European Union and the European countries with a view to improving their efforts. I could also say it's a kind of XXI. 12th century, this proposal for a resolution, i.e., what does the Hungarian nation want? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's I believe that it is not such an exaggeration to live with such an analogy, since the citizens of Hungary have widely expressed their views on the issue covered by the proposal for a resolution, and so this House is now giving a kind of confirmation. At the same time, the Parliament calls on the Government to represent the position of citizens, i.e. in this case, this proposal is also a guarantee of the fulfilment of the will of the people. The first question, honourable Members, which we now have to answer is why this is happening now, why the timing of the proposal is justified. Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly well known to everyone that the institutions of the European Union initiated a conference on the future of Europe, and after nearly a year of negotiations, this event ended on 9 May 2022. One of my eyes cries, because the conference proved to be a sort of a dead end, yet it is an honor for me to lead a delegation of four at the conference. I would also like to thank Zoltán Tessely and Zoltán Balczó, Vice-Presidents of the Committee on European Affairs, as well as Hajnalka Juhász, member of the Committee. Thank you. Why, then, is that a double feeling? Ladies and gentlemen, Even at the beginning of the process, we felt that this event was an unparalleled opportunity, an initiative in the history of the European Union, and perhaps naively we thought that this one-year process was a way of getting to know the views of civilians, citizens. However, as time passed, we soon had to realize that the conference in the shoreless bed was not really a real mission, so that it could not be a worthy successor to the Convention twenty years ago. Organisation, concept and governance have now been absent, and the series of discussions is mostly characterised as a spectacular show, which, despite all this, has unfortunately remained unheard of in front of the wider European public. At the final ceremony in Strasbourg, the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council were able to receive 49 general proposals and 326 final reports from the participants of the conference, i.e. impressive figures. However, it turned out that the debate gave rise to positions aimed at deepening the Union, building empires and closer integration. For example, one of the most important issues in the last year has been the European Parliament's right to initiate legislation, the introduction of top candidates in the European elections, the Spitzenkandidat system or the transition to qualified majority decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, This situation, the incomprehensible one, may only be understood with the fashionable visualization today. Imagine the scene of the classic movie Pulp Fiction, in which John Travolta is looking for the intercom. And indeed, ladies and gentlemen, are these really the most important issues in Europe when Europe is entering a new era of crisis and uncertainty? Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that we, Parliament, have no choice but to raise our voice as a body against the initiatives that are dangerous to us, as we have done before. I would like to remind my fellow Members that in July 2020, in the decision on economic measures in the European Union relating to the economic impact of the coronal virus, we called on the Government to quote in the European Council the EU instrument for the next generation and to represent the principle of equal treatment in the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, in order to protect the interests of the Member States in the same situation and of the poorer. Now, ladies and gentlemen, after the conference on the future of Europe, I believe that it is very timely to think together about the future of the Union and of the Member States, because, despite the series of events that have taken a wrong turn, European citizens not only in Hungary but also in the other Member States rightly expect their ideas to be included, of course, in at least part, in the EU treaties, after due consideration. This is all the more true for Hungarian citizens, because we participated in the events with a role far above the European average. Ladies and gentlemen, The question of where Europe, the Member States and the EU institutions are giving very different answers is raised throughout Europe today. At present, we know that Member States are trying to process the proposals of this one-year conference through a more than 200-page analysis. This will take time, professional analysis and responsible contribution. Compared to this, I am looking at my fellow Member Tamás Deutsch in the European Parliament, who knows that he voted, almost in haste, on 9 June, on the invitation to establish a convention for the revision of contracts. What's the hurry? The European Parliament has therefore proposed to this Council a Convention of representatives of national parliaments, Heads of State and/or Government of the Member States, the European Parliament and the Commission. I would like to remind my fellow Members that the Convention for the revision of the Treaties was convened in February 2002. What happened then? The Constitutional Treaty, drawn up by the then panel with a year and a half of hard work, was voted out by the French and Dutch citizens according to its order and manner and did not become a Constitution for Europe, but what became of it: the Lisbon Treaty took over its role from December 2009. I would like to ask you, if such a better prepared convention, organised solely on a professional basis, what can we expect from a political meeting? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we Hungarians are playing with open cards in this game. The proposals were made public a year ago. I would like to remind my fellow Members that in June 2021, the Prime Minister pointed out in his presentation on the occasion of the Hungarian Independence Day that the Union is governed by those who consider integration to be a self-target and want to overwrite all traditional values. Therefore, the term "Union" should be deleted from the Union's Treaty; and the European Parliament has proven to be a dead end, representing only ideological interests, and therefore the role of national parliaments, who should have the right to halt the legislative process of the European Union, i.e. to introduce the red flat procedure, should be significantly increased. The current proposal for a decision also calls for a revision of the Treaty of the Union, and in this respect I would particularly like to highlight the restoration of the political neutrality of the European Commission and the clear definition of EU competences. The so-called depoliticisation of the Commission, I know that it cannot be easily resolved, because many times we know that personal ambitions and political commitment motivate the EU executive body. Since the powers exercised by the Union come from the Member States, I am convinced that we must return to the implementation of the principle of "Nemo plus iuris" known from Roman law, which is nothing else: just as Member States cannot provide for matters falling within the competence of the EU, on the other hand, the EU institutions cannot decide on matters which belong to the Member States. Period, period, period, period, [[16.40]] It cannot be relative, nor can the European institutions, dominated by politicians who pick globalist strings, be measured by double standards. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, Europe seems to be spiritually empty. Schuman, Monnet, Adenauer or De Gasperi, the founding fathers, are now mostly building and street names in Brussels, and the Christian democracy they represent does not appear among the values of the Lisbon Treaty. We therefore urge, in this place, that in the basic treaty, we should make a clear reference to the respect and protection of Jewish-Christian traditions. Ladies and gentlemen, Another important element of the Hungarian position is the need to explicitly strengthen the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries in the treaties. I am convinced that, in the future of Europe, it must be said that the future of the Western Balkans is in the European Union and, together with this, we support, of course, the candidate status of Ukraine, Moldova. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a decision also pays for institutional issues. It is not the EU institutions, but the role of national parliaments that should be strengthened. I am convinced that European democracy is primarily about national parliaments, and therefore the role of national parliaments in EU matters, including the Parliament, must be strengthened so that they can represent national interests more effectively, and one way of doing so is to examine subsidiarity, a yellow flat procedure. Dear House, The resolution proposal before us calls for an even greater role for national parliaments than the yellow flat procedure, and here it brings back the assurance given to the United Kingdom in February 2016, before the Brexit referendum, to introduce the red flat procedure, which would enable national parliaments to stop proposals that undermine their powers. The next level of strengthening the role of national parliaments would be the green flat procedure, and I note this, my fellow Members, in which we agreed not only on the 108-member national parliamentary component of the conference, but also on the COSAC working groups organised during the French EU Presidency. The aim is to allow national parliaments, where appropriate, to jointly initiate EU legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a decision therefore stresses that, despite the derailment of the consultation on the future of the Union, the Hungarians are clearly expressing their views, and this is integration on a nation-state basis, and the government must also represent it in all possible situations. This is what the Hungarian nation wants, this is our 12 points today, honourable Members, which must be enforced. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-148	Thank you very much, Congressman Richard Hörcsik. I'm going to ask if someone would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-06-28-149	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Citizens should be consulted on fundamental issues affecting their daily lives and futures. This recognition in Hungary has no effect on the power of novelty. Since 2011, the Hungarian Government has asked citizens' opinions on all important issues in the form of a national consultation and incorporated the results into the decision-making process. We could even say that Brussels was trying to take over this good practice by calling the conference to life. Diplomatically, all we can say is that they almost succeeded. In any case, it was not up to Hungary and the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people have been actively involved in the debate on the future of the European Union from the outset. Civil society organisations, governmental organisations and local authorities have contributed with numerous events at national, regional and local level so that Hungarian people can make their voices heard. More than 800 events were organised in Hungary during the conference series. We can be proud that we Hungarians were one of the most active nations in the EU, Hungary organised the most of the events recorded on the digital platform of the conference, and the second place in terms of the combined number of organised events, ideas and contributions sent to the conference, ahead of the size of other major EU Member States. In Hungary, preparatory activities related to the conference started before the official launch of the event in June 2020. The Ministry of Justice, as the Ministry of European Union Affairs, had seen the organisation and promotion of events related to the conference before its official start. I am proud to say that we have held four major international conferences, where representatives of EU government, Commissioners, MEPs, experts and academic world have shared their thoughts and have had a meaningful exchange of views on the future of Europe. We organised a roundtable series specifically for young people, which concerned national sovereignty and closer integration, the green policy of the Hungarian government, the main challenges facing the Union and youth policy. The Ministry of Justice also announced an essay contest for young Hungarians on topics related to the conference. Based on the hundreds of events organized in Hungary, it can be concluded that Hungarians do not see the key to a stronger and more effective European Union in building an empire. The Hungarian people have made it clear that the European Union must change. As has been said at Hungarian events, we must stand by the unanimous decision-making process and reject the enlargement of the areas affected by majority decision-making, as well as the European Parliament and the European Commission's efforts to increase their stealth powers. Proposals have been made for the reform of the European Parliament, including the reduction of the number of MEPs and the delegation of Members from national parliaments. According to the Hungarian proposals provided by the conference, the European Union should support the efforts of the Member States to protect their borders, and it should permanently stop imposing mandatory quotas. Migration policy should remain a national competence and Member States should determine to what extent they intend to use labour migration. A clear distinction should be made between immigrants and refugees, and demographic problems should not be addressed by facilitating migration. Rather, the European Union should focus on the issues of support for families, education for children, control of child sexual propaganda and support for traditional family models and marriage. Many proposals suggest that Europe's Christian roots and traditions should be one of the EU's core values. Proposals have been made to strengthen the EU's defence sovereignty and to strengthen its resilience to external threats. The importance of nuclear energy for security of energy supply and low energy prices has been emphasised in several places. From this, it is clear that Hungarians have a strong vision of the future of Europe, which does not correspond to the ideas of the elite in Brussels on several points. It is also clear that the current contractual framework of the Union does not allow Hungarian proposals to be implemented and does not enable the EU to stand up for the decades of crises. [[16.50]] It follows that the issue of revision of contracts should also be opened. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian people spoke clearly. But what did Brussels hear? I'm afraid I don't have much to offer you here. The conclusions of the conference show the vision of a Europe that is more federal than ever before. The conference at European level has become an inaccessible, over-bureaucratized process, which overrides its own rules on the move, not the citizens, but rather the efforts to build an empire in Brussels. The conclusions of the conference cannot be regarded as a proportionate and representative summary of national contributions. The recommendations drawn up by 800 randomly selected EU citizens participating in so-called European civil panels should not reflect the views of 480 million Europeans. In addition, they were assisted by independent experts with no external observers at all to hear the exchange of views between them and the experts. In fact, in the so-called working groups dominated by the European Parliament, the influence of some actors was even greater, while, contrary to the original plans, the debate on ideas accessible to all citizens, the content of the digital platform, eventually, had a minor role to play. Dear House, The Government welcomes the fact that the Parliament is taking part in the debate on the future of Europe and is also committed to representing the views and expectations of the Hungarian people at European level. This is an extremely important step. As the main bearer of democratic legitimacy, the Parliament, by adopting the resolution, gives the government a strong mandate to represent the interests of the Hungarian people in the institutions of the European Union. With this mandate, the Hungarian government will work to create a Europe of peace, freedom and prosperity, according to the expectations of the Hungarian people, for a Europe in which we can see our own faces. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-150	Thank you, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Deutsch, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-28-151	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Honourable Members, The Hungarians actively participated in the conference on the future of Europe and expressed a strong opinion on the European Union, the future of the European Union. I think that thanks to all Hungarian citizens who helped with their active opinion and participation have enriched this work. The opinion of the Hungarian people is directed to us, the representatives of the European Parliament of Fidesz and KDNP, and the representatives of the Hungarian Parliaments, so I would like to quote some of the opinions and positions developed during the very broad and active Hungarian participation in my speech. First, the European Union today considers integration to be its own goal, which precedes all traditional values and overrides all national interests. Its aim is to create a European empire without the authorisation of Member States and European citizens. We Hungarians consider integration to be a means of achieving our national freedom. Secondly, the European Union is today building a Europe that denies traditional European values. We Hungarians, on the other hand, believe that Europe is fed by Jewish-Christian roots, and its building blocks are our traditional communities, the nation, families and historical churches. We regard the values and principles that form part of our common constitutional heritage as inspiration, which strengthen the community of the Member States and do not drive a wedge between them. Third, the European Union is today building a Europe of opinion hegemony. Europe is united not in diversity, but in alignment and self-censorship. We Hungarians are in favour of freedom and pluralism. We accept the diversity of world views, interests and positions, and we take it for granted so that we can say and represent ours. Fourthly, the European Union is today building a Europe without nations. We Hungarians, however, believe that the Member States are masters of the future of European integration. Member States are the sole carriers of sovereignty, so only the Member States can decide which powers they wish to exercise jointly. As the fifth, the European Union is today building a Europe without democracy. In fact, under the pretext of implementing the rule of the European people, democratic control of European nations and EU institutions is being abolished. We Hungarians know that there is no European Demo and we believe that European integration is not about creating a European people. Our Europeanity is an integral part of our national identity. We are Europeans because we are Hungarians, and we can only be Europeans as Hungarians. As Professor Schöpflin put it in his brilliant wording, he is a European, Hungarian edition. European democracy can only be ensured through the strengthening of democratically organised national communities, and we must establish democracy in the Union. As sixth, the European Union is building a vulnerable Europe today. Our decade is a time of dangerous challenges. We must protect the European generations of the present and future. The crises have revealed the weaknesses of the European Union, showed that there is a need for strong nation states capable of action in an emergency and for a European Union that does not bind them, but provides them with real support. The dramatic change in the security situation in Europe has shown that Europe must be able to defend itself even on its own. Every people has the right to decide who they want to live with, and we want to enforce that right. As the seventh, the European Union today is not building a Europe of the successful, but a Europe of the unsuccessful. The idea of the EU is based on the simple assumption that together Member States can achieve greater economic success than individually. Without a common economic success, the European Union will fall apart. The competitive European Union is based on the competitive economies of the Member States. Convergence within the European Union is a factor that strengthens competitiveness. The reduction or diversion of the EU budget's resources for catching up undermines the competitiveness of the European Union. As the eighth, the European Union is today building a Europe without Europeans, providing only financial assistance for mass immigration. On the other hand, we Hungarians see the future of Europe in support of families and in strengthening the desire to have children. The EU should also recognise this model as a legitimate solution and provide support. There are also demographic preconditions for the sustainability of European lifestyles. Addressing the demographic challenge should be a key aspect of the EU budget. And finally, as a ninth, the European Union is building a Europe that has been mutilated today. The European Union's enlargement momentum in the Western Balkans has run out, and this process is unfinished. We need a new momentum. There is a need to restore confidence in the enlargement process. We support the European integration of all the Western Balkan states because it contributes to the stability of our neighbourhood, but Serbia's integration process and perspective plays a prominent role. Serbia is the key to stability in the region. If Serbia loses its motivation for European integration, no conflict in the Western Balkans will be solved. Well, honourable Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I have prepared this speech, which is even European, but I have heard the sulking of the honourable opposition, the Hungarian left, for days, so that I should not say, his hysterical about the proposal for a parliamentary resolution tabled. [[17.00]] Therefore, let me add a few further comments to what has been said, first of all on active Hungarian participation and on the weirdness of the conference series on the future of Europe. Well, Honourable Parliament, as Mr State Secretary said, as an average size European Union Member State, Hungarian citizens have done sixth place in comparison to the third and the other important criterion for comparison. If once again, following the Hungarian participation in the Hungarian Parliament in the future of Europe conference, someone here will chant that the Hungarians are Eurosceptics, that if I look at the results of April 52-54, if I look at the results of the weekend, then there are Eurosceptics at the base of the governing parties with 65-70% support, then let me draw your attention to the fact that this is not the case. What was happening in the months behind us was that, thanks to the active initiative of the Hungarian administration, Hungarian citizens actively expressed their views. This opinion is a strong Hungarian opinion, not according to the taste of the mouth of the main current in Brussels. There was an answer to that, and they had a noble simplicity in turning them out. The future of Europe worked in such a way that what did not correspond to the pre-written outcome was not included in the conclusions, which was in line with the pre-written outcome, although few said that their independence was highly questionable, well, those opinions were of course massively published. Secondly, Honourable Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the proposal for a parliamentary resolution tabled, as President Hörcsik said, contains opinions on the active participation of Hungarian citizens. So what I can say is that with regard to a large number of participation, active expression of opinion and the fate of the parliamentary resolution proposal submitted, the logical consequence would be that there would be a kind of broad parliamentary agreement. The Hungarian citizens have said what they want, this is what appears in the proposal for a parliamentary decision, and the logical conclusion would be that it is a broad one, so that I should not say that if they had not been frightened there on the left: there could have been a national consensus on the support for the parliamentary decision proposal. But it's not! Screaming has been heard here for a week since the motion became known. What's the reason for all this, what's the explanation for all this? Well, as I was thinking, there were two clear and clear explanations. The first is that, following the election defeat on 3 April, which would have required opposition from the point of view of everyday logic, you, of course, missed this opposition, have failed, so I would not, of course, like to shed crocodile tears if you do not face your own fault, because of your incompetence it is an indirect strengthening of our competitiveness, so, nosza, continue to do so, but still something like this as a substitute, as if it turned out that the parties of the Hungarian left did not recognise and accept all that is happening in Hungary, as Hungary looks. Ladies and Gentlemen, There is a growing suspicion that not only do you not know and understand what this country is like, but because you do not know and understand what this country is like, you do not know and understand how the European Union works and one of the fundamental reasons for your mistake. For weeks, months, you have been talking about the European Commission launching a conference on the future of Europe. It is not true that the European Commission initiated this conference, but the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council jointly. You do not understand that the idea of European cooperation, expressed more than half a century ago, is about nothing less than to express in the early 1950s the hope that the future of Europe can finally be decided by the European nation states, finally opening up the possibility of a sovereign decision, since Europe of the 1950s was an American occupation in the West and Russian occupation in Central and Eastern Europe. Everything that is contrary to the sovereign decision of the nation states, everything that wants to limit this freedom of choice, is contrary to the fundamental idea of European cooperation. You are whining about the Hungarian proposal to transform the functioning of the European Parliament. They are talking about an anti-democratic proposal when, from the beginning of European cooperation until 1979, the members of the European Parliament were not elected, but were delegated by the parliaments of the Member States, when, at the moment, the members of the Assembly of the European Council, the Parliament of the Council of Europe, is not elected, but is delegated by the parliaments of the Member States. Once I did not hear, your representatives are sitting at the parliamentary assembly of the European Council, and in connection with the functioning of this delegation principle, I did not once hear that this would be an anti-democratic solution. Of course, they do not talk about the idea of a European mainstream policy that would still take seats in the European Parliament from the EU Member States, as that is what the idea of a transnational, pan-European list means. The other reason why you cannot support this parliamentary resolution proposal, which contains the position of Hungarian citizens in writing, is that the Hungarian left is politically unfit for national agreement in this state. The fact is that you are making only an emotional decision, and you are emotionally related to European phenomena is that at the moment you hate your Hungarian political opponents, us, more than you love your country. And all the opinions that are formulated in the European Union that you, of course, like government critics because of mistakes, are enthusiastically supported by you, even if it is contrary to the highest Hungarian national interests. So you are not investigating Hungarian national interests, but are clapping on the basis of their party political taste, on an emotional basis, to everything that you believe to be detrimental to your hated opponents, Fidesz and KDNP, to the government. Mr President, My apologies for exceeding my time, perhaps we should not have had such a long proposal for a resolution, as President Hörcsik said: what does the Hungarian nation wish for? In 1848 we put it very well: let there be peace, freedom and agreement. In today's situation in the European Union, this is perhaps the most important European programme, peace, freedom and agreement at last in Europe. Thank you for listening, I ask for support for the Parliamentary resolution proposal. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-152	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Deutsch. On behalf of the DK Group, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató.
u2022-06-28-153	There is an anecdote, I don't know, authentic, but it is certainly typical of the current situation, which is that at the Bibo College football matches were held until Viktor Orbán's team was won. That is exactly what Fidesz is playing with the European Union right now. Now that you are constantly being excluded from the substance of the European Union decision-making, that the European People's Party, which, by the way, continues the Christian Democratic tradition that you have mentioned, will no longer tolerate your policy, your strong right-wing policy, to put it mildly, which is contrary to these principles, has pushed the Fidesz out of its members, as has been the case in the European Parliament. When it seems that the European Union increasingly or less tolerates what you are doing with the Hungarian rule of law, and in the way that you are using European Union money for the benefit of the public not so much as for the benefit of certain groups, and you are setting out the conditions of the rule of law for this government to have access to these resources; when the practice that the Hungarian government is carrying on to prevent important matters is important for Hungary, too, as is the global minimum tax, with its veto, it is true that perhaps it is not a good practice when a single government is able to stop the decision-making of the entire European Union. [[17.10]] In this situation, what do you do? Well, they don't think about their policies, they don't try to think that representation of Hungarian national interests has a different path than the constant search for conflict with the European Union, but they say that, yeah, then this European Union doesn't have to. Because this proposal for a decision, honourable Members, is about rejecting the European Union. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] Because let's not play puppet theater with each other. You knew that when Hungary entered the European Union, and you prepared this, by the way, when this Parliament ratified the Lisbon Treaty among the first, and you voted in favour of the rules on which the European Union is based, even when we entered the European Union, the ever closer cooperation was included in the fundamental principles of the European Union when the Lisbon Treaty was adopted. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Unanimity...]] The powers that you are speaking about were included in the European Union treaties. The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that what is happening now is that, as they feel that they have less and less room for manoeuvre on the European stage, because they feel that they cannot, by the way, continue the practice that they have done in recent years or decades, when they have brought the benefits of the European Union, especially for themselves, but they have not been involved or have been only destructively involved in the work of the European Union, and by this I mean the Hungarian government, first and foremost, it cannot continue indefinitely, they have started to prepare for Hungary's departure from the European Union. Do you know where this came up not so long ago that perhaps we should remove the ever closer union from the EU's basic documents? I'll tell you. The British Prime Minister suggested this in preparation for the Brexit referendum. That's what's happening right now. Let there be no misunderstanding, it should be clear to all Hungarian citizens that this is happening behind the foaming! This is also the case with the conference on the future of the Union. Well, it's only a conference that will bring you the results you think are right. They were able to resolve this at home, they were able to organise a national consultation on this matter in essence, but, unfortunately, they have no effect on the other 26 Member States, they cannot influence what citizens think beyond Hegyeshalom, so the outcome of the conference was not what you expected. What's the conclusion? This conference is illegal; only what you say and think is legitimate. Of course, the proposal for a decision could be taken in detail, individually, but if you will allow me, I am just pointing out a few important points. For example, they talk about the Commission's political neutrality. Ladies and gentlemen, This is also mentioned today, under Article 17/B of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I'm not sure what you're talking about. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Is that so?]] That's right! Sorry, point C, but you are involved, and so you are, fellow Members. That these decisions... The European Commission is still operating in a politically independent manner, and Hungarian Commissioners are also politically independent, no matter how much you sometimes resent it, but the fact is that this does not mean that they are making decisions like you would like. The European Commission is not yet managed by the Hungarian government. I understand this hurts you, because you're used to doing what you want at home by two thirds, breaking all the rules, violating the law, or rewriting it if you don't like it. Unfortunately, this is not the case for you in the European Union, and the treaties and legislation are binding on everyone, even on the Hungarian government. The situation is similar with powers. Points 2, 3, 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union lay down the powers which the European Union has. You can say it. Do we want it? Yeah, we want it, we want it! He's in on it. There's really no such thing. It is a more complicated and difficult question, it is worth talking about when they say that the Jewish-Christian heritage has appeared or not in the Treaty of the European Union. The fact is that the preamble literally states that, drawing on the cultural, religious and humanist heritage of Europe, from which man's inviolable and inalienable rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the universal values of the rule of law have developed. There is indeed no record of what this religious heritage is, but, frankly, I do not think that is your problem. Your problem is that there is a continuation of the sentence, that the humanist heritage is included, that it includes freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law. Now, you've got a problem with that. I would like to replace this, I have said this several times, and they do not like it, but I must say that with your false Christian Democratic position denying the rule of law and human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a question where we're facing each other sharply and arguing with each other, but that's not what I'm saying yet, because maybe we're looking for what we agree on first. There are some things we agree on, there are three such points, and I would like to say this. One of these is the commitment to the enlargement of the European Union. We also believe that it is right for the Hungarian Parliament to support this. The second is the protection of nationality rights. It is also right that the Hungarian Parliament supports this. In this respect, the European Union is not performing well enough, in this respect the European Union is not providing sufficient protection to its citizens. The third is the joint reinforcement of defence capabilities, including border surveillance. This is important, and we agree on that. That's what I wanted to tell you. Don't say we don't agree on anything. But there is a decisive difference between us, and Mr Tamás Deutsch's speech has shown this very clearly. For you, European democracy is in fact the rule of national governments. For you, the right European operation is that if national governments are not nation states and not nations, national governments will determine the policy of the European Union. We don't think that's true. The position of the Democratic Coalition has long been, and this has not changed, that it is the proper functioning of the European Union if the will of European citizens determines the functioning of the European Union. And there is a very clear way of expressing the will of European citizens, this European Parliament, which is directly chosen by citizens. I understand that you are concerned that in this system Hungarian citizens have the right and the opportunity to send not only pro-government members to the European Parliament. I have no doubt that if it were up to you, the two-thirds law would not be so acceptable and liberal. I understand that it pains you that in the last elections to the European Parliament the extreme right-wing coalition that you have tried to bring together has not been able to obtain a virtually blocking minority. I understand this hurts you. But the fact remains that you and your views do not have a majority in Europe. That is why they want to eliminate the possibility for Hungarian citizens to decide directly who represents Hungary in the European Union, at least in Parliament, and to decide directly who they should be MEPs. I do not know, you know the survey that says, for example, that 60 percent of Hungarian citizens believe that their most important means are to influence European politics and to influence the European Union in the elections to the European Parliament. You want to take away this right, you want to deprive Hungarian citizens of this right, of their right to have a direct say in the functioning of the European Union. This is indeed a fundamental and fundamental difference between us. We believe that there is no need for less democracy and more government power in the European Union, but, on the contrary, more democracy, a stronger direct voice for citizens. Just because we do not think it would be right to criticise the ideas of Fidesz, we have tabled the proposal for a decision ourselves, more precisely as an amendment, a draft which replaces your proposal for a decision, which stands very clearly for a more democratic European operation, for a transparent European operation, in addition to the fact that the European Parliament's powers should not be reduced, but rather increased, that the European Parliament should have a stronger influence within the European Union, which insists that the European Union is much stronger in the social field, in the area of social Europe, and much stronger in the area of sustainable development, protecting our future, and that the institutions of the European Union should be transparent, traceable, including the Council, and including what national governments represent in the Council. Once again, we think that we need no less Europe and a weaker European Union in the situation that we are living in today, when only by acting together in Europe can we deal with a great many problems, problems and difficulties that threaten us, from climate change to security challenges to ever-increasing economic competition. We therefore believe that we need a stronger European Union, more Europe and stronger European democracy, we stand by it, we will vote on it, and we will support it. And I must say to Mr Tamás Deutsch that if you do not like this democratic European Union, if you do not like the fact that MEPs are elected directly, then next time do not run for elections to the European Parliament. Thank you very much. [[András Fekete-Győr applauds.]] [[17.20]]
u2022-06-28-154	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász.
u2022-06-28-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said, and I would like to sum up the last year because as a national delegation to Parliament, I participated in the conference series on the future of Europe, and I was also a member of the climate protection task force. Thank you very much, President Hörchik, for this opportunity. It is clear from the comments of my fellow harvester that he did not participate in the conference series on the future of Europe. [[Gergely Harvestó: I'm not fidesz, unfortunately! They're invited!]] I wish the conference series on democracy was about the future of Europe. It was faced as a national parliamentary delegate that the major guardians of the rule of law ignored it and did not read its own Code of Procedure for the future of Europe, which sets out in Article 17 what consensus, democracy means. The representatives of the national parliaments have been opposed to a number of points throughout. As my colleague Tamás Deutsch said, this was a pre-written verdict. It could have been felt that it could have been a sublime goal to channel citizens' views into the conference series on the future of Europe. And thank you very much for those civilians, citizens, and for all the events, more than 804 conferences with which we did all the work in the first place. This was the preparation of the federal Union from a political point of view. Over a year, more than ten Members of the National Parliament have consistently said that we do not support the transnational list, we do not support the Spitzenkandidat. Is this democracy in the position of the European Council and the European Commission? Is this the future of Europe? We also did not support the European Parliament's right of legislative initiative. On the day before the closing declaration, many of us have said that there is no consensus, since Article 17 of the series of conferences on the future of Europe defines the consensus that we can only talk about it if all the Members support it. The Polish, Slovenian, Estonian and myself, four Members of Parliament have issued a declaration that we do not support the aforementioned directions, the preparation of the federal union. The past period, the last ten years, represents economic challenges for the European Union, inflation, war and many, many difficult questions, but we see it and we must say that the European Union is facing a loss of space. And speaking of the fact that the proposal for a decision and the role of the European Commission: the Treaty on European Union clearly states in Article 17 what it would be for the European Commission to do: to supervise the application of EU law, to coordinate, to manage and to implement it. Since 2014, since Juncker, the European Commission has openly defined itself as a political body. As a political body! Democracy, the rule of law... this is one of the things, and the proposal for a resolution is very important, because the proposal for a resolution gives us, on the one hand, the points that many of us have proposed and have not been included in the final conclusions and, at the same time, compensates for the distortions that have been included and have not been supported and there has been no consensus and has aimed at creating a federal union. If we are talking about the European Union, Article 4 of the Treaty on European Union clearly states that equality between Member States before contracts is a priority, respecting national identities. This is another point on which the conference series on the future of Europe has not been built. We need to see that there are two directions ahead of the European Union, and in recent times those reactions in the Member States have been successful, and here is the Covid issue, as it is possible to respond rapidly to the challenges of the Union at Member State level, and that is why it is necessary to strengthen the role of the Member States, their capacity to act in this area, not in a federal system. If we see that in the last ten years the European Union has given 25% of the world's GDP, today 18%, we must change. And that is why the proposal for a decision is important, because we have set out the directions in which the amendment of the treaty, the issue of revision of the treaties, can indeed be raised. The Commission's political and ideological neutrality is indeed important, it is very important to define the subsidiarity of the Member States, its sovereignty, and it is necessary to make very clear the powers which the Treaty on Union designates in the competence of the Member States and to define in a catalogue the powers that the Union can exercise through its institutions. I want to thank you once again for all the work that the civilians have put into this. The final declaration was adopted six days ago as the most disappointing moment in the past year, because, despite its Friday signal, many national Members of Parliament have been told that there is no consensus and lied the following morning that Guy Verhofstadt officially announced the consensus and the acceptance of the final declaration. I was there then, and I spoke back then, and I said that wasn't true. If we are talking about the rule of law and a genuine democracy, we need not more European Unions, but a smarter European Union, capable of creating peace and security. And I think that the directions set out in the proposal for a decision will make Europe more competitive, because we must understand that not the federal union, not the Commission, will make the Union stronger, but the strong Member States. And this proposal for a resolution guarantees this. It is a very important and very pressing issue, so please support this proposal for a decision. KDNP will support it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2022-06-28-157	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a difficult debate, because we are frustrated on both sides, because the European Union is no longer where we want it to be, and the European Union is not where you want it to be. We tabled this proposal for a resolution and I say that we must express our dissatisfaction because the European Union has refused its Christian roots, has refused to cooperate a little competitively with each other, based on mutual respect, but still on mutual respect, and has moved towards a federal Europe, towards the united states of Europe, towards your fantasies, but not even there. And from this today's debate is a very interesting debate, and it is a very important debate about what will happen to the future of the European Union, but it is quite clear that the Nation State cooperation framework has loosened up and the headquarters of the empire has started to function, but there are no European united states yet, and we will do and work to ensure that they do not exist. Major debates on the future of the European Union have been taking place for a long time, where basically these two differing positions, but there are two very clear positions: the concept of a Europe of nations compromised to solve common challenges based on strong nation states, while on your side the concept of the United States of Europe, which set the goal of total integration in itself, sending national sovereignty. In our view, Europe is historically a diverse, many cultures, a continent inhabited by many peoples, one of which has its own national values, languages and heritage. That is why, in itself, there is no European people, but only the coexistence and cooperation of European peoples can be imagined. Like Mr. Harvester, I'd like to tell you an anecdote. It happened to me at a European conference that I sat down at the breakfast table with a MEP, and, like all these times, we started talking with an introduction, and I asked him where she came from, and he said proudly that I was European, only elected from Sweden. Now, this is the thinking of the European Left, where nation states have no role, where national culture, heritage and traditions at home have no role, and one thing that has a role to play is that through the Swedish electoral system, the Swedish electoral office, the Swedish electoral office, he is placed in the seat of the European Parliament. [[17 .30]] These few sentences describe everything, my fellow Members, what is wrong with the European Union at present. With regard to the debate on the reform of the EU, which had already begun last spring, I would like to point out to Mr Arató that the problem with the future conference was not that the outcome was not what we wanted; the problem, my fellow Member, was that your friends of principle in Brussels erased our positions, did not fill our positions, sabotage, censored positions that were born, for example, in Hungary or Poland, Italy, Spain or anywhere else, but that they did not agree with the mainstream current, the liberal thought of Brussels. So, my honourable fellow Member, our problem was not with the conference, our problem is that the opinions of many tens and hundreds of millions of European citizens have been ignored. After all, we have heard from many of our partners, our domestic and foreign partners that they have also contributed to conferences on the future of Europe with a large number of proposals, which seek to achieve a moderate European unity and a European consensus, thinking in strong nation states, so that they have deleted their proposals from the aggregation, as if they had never happened. In the Lisbon Treaty, honourable Member, where was the double standard? In the Lisbon Treaty, where was the European Commission's commitment to political engagement, honourable Member? And Brussels is now presenting its proposals for the future of Europe as if there were only and only the ideals of the united states of Europe, as if that is what the people of Europe wanted unanimously. Therefore, Brussels believes that as soon as possible more powers should be given to the European Union institutions and that the majority of their sovereignty and legislative competence should be removed from national parliaments. The series of conferences on the future of Europe was therefore an act of intolerant and violent opinion hegemony, not a common, free thinking. Klára Dobrev also explained several times in the past, she said that my dream is the united states of Europe, she also said: "There is no doubt: the future of Europe is the United States of Europe. Since then, the Left has been constantly trying to ensure that the European United States are established and that Hungary cannot receive the EU funds due to it, based on legal, moral and economic considerations. You will continue to do the same thing you started before 3 April, trying to make the democratically elected Hungarian government impossible in Brussels, you will report it to your commissioner's policy friends, Věra Jourova and the others, and Klára Dobrev, the concept of the Hungarian left and the united states of Europe is to give up nations and national sovereignty, to wipe out and build an empire in Brussels. We are opposed to this crazy idea because the recent years, the crises of the last decade, have shown that only the Member States can protect their own citizens effectively and when action is needed. Now I'd like to respond to Gergely Harvesto here. Fidesz-KDNP does not intend to lead Hungary out of the European Union. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right!]] There is a party in the Hungarian Parliament that has put this on its flag, the Jobbik, you have joined forces with the Jobbik that has burned an EU flag, who are... Dániel Z. Karpát... [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Z. Carpathian Daniel now... [[Gergely Arato, pointing to some of the representatives of Mi Hazan who have left the room: It is your friends!]] Has Dániel Z. Carpathian changed his seat since then, honourable Member? Dániel Z. Kárpát, who may or may not be Vice-President of the Jobbik Group, has written an EU-Tanapzia book, it is worth seeing, fellow Members. You regularly argue in favour of leaving the EU. Are we members or are we free? With its title, my honourable fellow Member, not one, but a great deal in recent years. The fact is, Mr Arato, that you say that we would like you to be only a pro-government Member in the European Parliament. What my fellow Member Tamás Deutsch has set out is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where national parliaments delegate representatives, pro-government and opposition. Do you know what has been the only sad thing in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for the past four years, honourable Member? The fact that the delegation of DK never once paid tribute to the Council of Europe building in Strasbourg, that the delegation of DK had contributed nothing to the work that took place in the Council of Europe, took place at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And the fact is, my honourable fellow Member, that you can say what was in the Lisbon Treaty, but what we are now experiencing on the part of the European Union is the use of political canopy, the use of the legal arguments as a political club, the double standard, it was not included in the Lisbon Treaty, and we will not accept it; however, as unanimity was in the Lisbon Treaty, you have now argued that unanimity should be abolished, while glorifying the Lisbon Treaty, even though it was included in it, there is unanimity. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] You have said, honourable Member, that it must be considered that it is a good thing that the Member States can veto on certain issues, that it contradicts the Treaty of the European Union, that they are sailing into dangerous waters, but that is obviously your goal: punish the renegade countries, tell them that those who do not join the ranks will not get a strudel by the evening. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal for a resolution tells us everything about the problem with the European Union today, and we must therefore do everything we can from the inside to ensure that the European Union [[The president's ringing the bell.]] a better system of institutions that better serve nation states. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-158	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mr Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2022-06-28-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, we are living in historical times, since, in particular, since Russia in Putin has waged an aggressive war against Ukraine, we must state that there has been a new historical period on the European continent, in which the geopolitical and geosecurity system since 1945 or even the Helsinki process has been fundamentally considered. The conference on the future of the European Union and joint thinking in this crucial period, as far as its outcome is concerned, I think that it can be dealt with with very serious criticisms, and there are very positive elements in it. First, I would like to express Jobbik's position in general, and then, if I may say so, I would like to interpret this proposal for a resolution in almost every section, precisely because of what I have just said, because there are sections with which Jobbik fully agrees as a central right-wing national party of our country, and there are passes with which we can partially agree, and there are passes that we are critical of our country's national interests, and I would like to say this in such a way that there is no misunderstanding. We have also stressed for a long time that from the perspective of the future of the European Union, which for our country, and perhaps for the other countries of Central and Eastern Europe under Soviet-Russian occupation, has not brought the catch-up, the prosperity and freedom that I remember well, in Sopron, 32 years ago, we expected him to have a new reconciliation between Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe, and we must now do so in the midst of a world-historic reorganization, where the enlargement of the European Union to the Eastern and Western Balkans is a very important objective with which Jobbik fully agrees, as I said at yesterday's meeting of the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, at a consolidated meeting of the National Parliaments's Foreign Affairs Committee. The very wrong direction, however, is, in our opinion, that this proposal for a resolution seeks to undermine the powers of the European Parliament and indeed to reduce the way in which it was elected to the level of 60s, when the national parliaments delegated members to the European Parliament. This is also very negative in our view because, for European citizens, the functioning of the European Union is not very tangible, and unfortunately, this consultation has not led to the clarification of the EU institutional system and decision-making mechanism for an average Hungarian citizen. However, indeed, for European citizens and Hungarian citizens, the European Parliament is the region where the European Union can be influenced at political level, and we believe that it would be important for the European Parliament to have more rights, among other things, to propose legislation, in the interest of a better representation of our country's national interests. [[17.40]] As regards the objectives of European integration: there are challenges, my dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, which cannot be resolved at national level. For example, environmental protection, a common defence policy, a reaction to global economic situations, and so on. And it is also a fact that strong nation states are very needed to ensure that the European Union and the continent of Europe in the new world system that I spoke about at the beginning are in place. And yes, there is a very, very important principle of subsidiarity, which is often said and difficult to say. In our view, Jobbik believes that it would mean that here, in practice, when our country joined the European Union, we transferred part of sovereignty and shared it with the other Member States of the European Union. Not Brussels, the other Member States of the European Union. I think it is very important here to treat these political and policy areas very circumstantially and to define where there is exclusive national competence, and even to go further, really the role of European regions and regions and local authorities should be strengthened, according to Jobbik, on a number of issues, because we believe in the role of local communities. And I would remind all my fellow Members that 32 years ago, one of the greatest achievements of the system change was that citizens could finally make direct decisions about their local affairs and not the Presidents of the Council. The one-party overpower of Fidesz has moved our country in this direction for the past almost 13 years. This needs to be addressed, and I think that this is a question where we need to be very, very clear. The Christian roots and culture of Europe are the basis for European integration, which serves as a moral compass in the era of uncertainty, says this resolution proposal. On the basis of Jobbik's statement in principle, he agrees perfectly, because the founding fathers of the European Union, Konrad Adenauer, De Gasperi and Schuman, were Christian Democrats, and we consider them to be genuine Europeans. To those Europeans who believed in the social market economy, my honourable fellow Members! Not in one-party overpower, not in an impoverished region, but in a social market economy. In our view, the well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens can be imagined in such a common Europe. I think there's a philosophical difference between us. Because apparently, the Fidesz, building up a one-party overpower, sees the European Union or, according to your vocabulary, Brussels as an enemy against which hateful poster campaigns have been carried out and which you consider to be virtually an ATM. And now they are surprised that the complete breakdown of the rule of law, which is an old European conservative value, I would respectfully signal that Hungarian citizens do not now have access to the resources they desperately need in the current social and economic crisis. It's your responsibility, nobody else's. It would be very simple for Hungary to have these funds: to restore the true functioning of a balanced civil democracy, not its sets. Let us look at some topics in which we agree perfectly. Since then, the common foreign and security policy has become one of the pillars of the European Union, in which I believe that it is precisely the present historical situation, the Russian aggression in Putin, which may speed up this process. Perhaps the new Fidesz Minister for Defence, who was also the owner of a Czech military aircraft factory, as is well known, could tell the Fidesz Members more about this and how this could be accelerated. We fully agree as a centre right conservative party that we must achieve the demographic challenge, not with migration, but with the priority support of families. However, I would also like to point out here that it is your government, which is always anti-migration in words, that the only word to be heard at the construction site in Sopron is Ukrainian, because it is your government's real policy not to mention the Gruevski case. It is necessary to guarantee at a contractual level the right of every people to decide who they want to live with in their country. Dear fellow Members, have you considered what this sentence means? I'll tell you. The Beneš Decrees, which, in our opinion, and in the opinion of all the good nations, are incompatible with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, are therefore in order. That's what you think. Because then the Czech nation and the Slovak nation have the right to dictate who they live with in their country. I understand, don't I? Or maybe they're just saying it wrong. Because then it is certain that this pass must be changed, it is very certain that it needs to be changed, because I think that this is against the national consensus that has already been expressed in support of the Minority SafePack towards the Hungarian national communities across the border, of which I was one of the first supporters of the President of the FUEN European minorities at the time, and I think that he is speaking against all well-spoken European citizens. So I think that we need to change this very unfortunate wording in such a way that it cannot be misunderstood, I say it again. The next question that should be mentioned in this connection is that Jobbik, as has been the case, naturally always supports indigenous national minorities living in the territory of the European Union, and it is precisely the case of Minority SafePack, mentioned earlier, in which we were able to establish a national consensus in this Parliament and in the previous Parliament. Jobbik has been demanding that there be a monitoring system for a very long time, because when an entry country also had to meet the Copenhagen criteria in the field of minority protection, there is no monitoring system after entry that could call on EU Member States to see whether it has met the minority protection criteria that were already met, at least sometimes on paper, at the time of entry. We agree perfectly on this, as I have said, that I would particularly highlight Bosnia and Herzegovina's status as a candidate in the European Union. In summary, the Hungarian Parliament is debating a proposal for a resolution, which can have a decisive influence on how our country can manage the 21st century. to become a respected member of the European nations in the century. I think that, on the basis of what has been said, it is perhaps clear that we think that the direction of this document, especially with regard to changing the powers of the European Parliament, is a direction that our country would not go forward but backwards. We're against that. All the details of this proposal for a decision that I have presented, but we support it. The fact that the outcome of the conference of the institutions of the European Union is so unsatisfactory, I think it urgently needs to be addressed. I think it would be worth arguing with us in this House about these methods, because it is quite clear, as I said, that both the European continent and the European Union are at a crossroads. In the national interest of our country and in the name of Jobbik, as the right-wing Euro-Atlantic party of our country, we always stress that we have many allies in the community of European nations, so that we can best enforce the national interests of our country both within the European Union and outside the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[17.50]]
u2022-06-28-160	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. I now give the floor to András Fekete-György [[Sic!]] Mr President, Member of the Momentum Group.
u2022-06-28-161	Thank you very much. Mr President, My name is András Fekete-Győr. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, You won the 2022 parliamentary election, won by Fidesz, with a huge faction and a two-thirds parliamentary majority. It is also a fact that many criticisms can be made of the Hungarian electoral system, and we, momentary Members, have also made these criticisms transparently over the last few years, but we have accepted the decision of the Hungarian citizens all along. You won; Viktor Orbán is a big fish in the small water, and he certainly doesn't. At the same time, Fidesz MEPs are more of a sneci; dozens of independent politicians are more than seven hundred in plenary in Brussels. You jumped out of the People's Party faction in seconds before the exclusion, actually to the land of no one; your voice is silent and your vote is therefore irrelevant in the European Parliament. Are you presenting a proposal for a resolution in the Hungarian Parliament to bring the European Parliament to an end? The only democratically elected EU institution where you are not strong enough? Should national parliaments delegate representatives? What happened to Viktor Orbán, my dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, the great sportsman who likes to win the race? What's with all the whining from your resolution proposal? Why not bring together the long-planned anti-European faction? Is it because their allies, Italians and Poles feel that Fidesz is becoming increasingly unpleasant and toxic? Why don't you lean on your V4 allies? Oh, because they've turned away from Fidesz? This proposal for a decision, honourable Members, is unpleasant, embarrassing and harmful, and we will therefore not vote for it. It is not possible for the Momentum fraction to vote for this because of the following reasons. You condemn the series of programmes on the future of Europe, and you believe that there has been no democratic dialogue. I am pleased that, after 12 years, they maintained their sense of humor, obviously slamming their knees, when, in addition to the two-thirds force policy and regulation governance, they miss conciliation and dialogue in Hungary. It's like Szilárd Németh is missing the salad here at the Parliament cafeteria. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Then they want to delete the goal of ever closer unity, saying that integration is not an end in itself, but an instrument. On the one hand, after two pandemic years, in addition to the ongoing war in Ukraine, what do you trust? Look at the EUR 404 yesterday, look at the prices and say that we can do this much better without the EU. Go to a Hungarian hospital and then say that Hungary is too European, it is time to take it back! Ladies and gentlemen, Closer integration is not the problem so much that in many cases it is the solution itself. Climate change, health or economic challenges, common EU interest towards our global competitors can only be achieved through closer cooperation. Anyone who does not understand this in 2022 does not understand the present and does not understand the challenges of the future. Then the treaties must be clearly defined, written, and the European Commission's political and ideological neutrality is fixed. They will not write that Viktor Orbán should always be right, and there are you, Members of the Fidesz, and there are the radio interviews with Kossuth on Friday morning. Then it is proposed that support for families should appear in the treaties as an EU objective. We agree with you, but the difference is that we don't mean the same thing as family. For example, you don't have a family where the mother grows, the father leaves, leaving the children. It is not a family for you to be raised in great love by a couple of the same sex, even by the birth of one of your own children. We really want to support the families, but you only want to support some of the families. By the way, I have always abstained on a particular matter here in the Hungarian Parliament or even in the public, and I would just like to note that I think that you will be laughed at in the downtown of Brussels if you look like representatives of the traditional family model. Furthermore, indigenous national minorities in the territory of the European Union should be protected and supported. Yes, we fully agree with you, because of Trianon's tragedy, we are responsible for our minority Hungarian compatriots living across the border, and, yes, also for the minorities in Hungary. However, when they demand that the right of all peoples to choose who they want to live with in their country should be guaranteed at a contractual level, we ask ourselves that you are sure that this will help our fellow Hungarians living in another country. Are you prepared to make decisions on this basis, such as Germany or the Netherlands, do not give to God in Austria? Then you want to ban EU borrowing, which is absurd because the credit in the EU is always triple A, or AAA + rating, because it is very low risk. You, on the other hand, are pawning the future of our children with their expensive market borrowings. Finally, they say that a common European army must be set up. That's right, we think so too. Ask your representatives in Brussels not to vote against next time. Dear Parliament, Fidesz's proposal for a decision is not about a European and not a Hungarian future that we, the Momentum faction, could support. This text is petty, this text is limited and excluded, and does not think about the day after tomorrow. If only half as much energy was spent in bringing EU money home as the European Union is investing in unnecessary provocation, then today Hungary should not impose a HUF 2000 billion restriction on Hungarian people, but we would have HUF 2500 billion in EU money here in Hungary. It is disappointing for us that they were only able to do so, and it is also a task for us to make a better offer to the country and to Europe, so we are not voting in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-06-28-162	Thank you very much, Congressman András Fekete-Győr. I now give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-06-28-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The main value and achievement of the European Union is the creation and guarantee of peace in Europe. With all its faults, this is the only institution in Europe that has been developing and functioning for decades and is a guarantee of European peace. We believe, and I myself believe, that the closer and wider cooperation between the EU Member States, nations and people, the stronger the guarantee of peace. What is happening now in the middle of Europe, I think, strengthens this faith even more. We do not believe in the united states of Europe, but we do believe that cooperation is wider and deeper, and it is also in Hungary's national interest, because the European Union is not only the guarantee of European peace, but also the main framework for the unification of Hungarians, because a Europe without borders enables us to maintain an ever closer relationship with Hungarians living across borders. As Tamás Deutsch mentioned in the 1950s, 1979, since they directly elected the representatives of the European Parliament, we do not want the European Union to return to the '50s and '70s, because this Europe without borders would fail. [[18.00]] As I mentioned Tamás Deutsch's reference, the European Union is indeed able to present a long history of development, where economic cooperation has begun, which has evolved into a community of values; where human rights, the rule of law and democracy are not such a cynical remark, as she has done, they have become European values that strengthen the cooperation of the Member States and guarantee that ultimately European peace will be maintained. Then, after the global economic crisis in 2008, Europe learned that economic cooperation is not enough, there is not enough community of values, there is also a need for solidarity. It is also a very important value that, during the Covid crisis, the European Union did not choose the 2008 path, where it expected Member States to take austerity policy, but, on the contrary, decided to support Member States in difficulty and to show solidarity with Member States in a difficult economic situation. And here comes the basic understanding of this proposal for a decision that the most painful thing for you is that these subsidies will not arrive in Hungary because of you. This European policy, this history of development, has come to the point that the European people, the Member States and the European institutions say that they do not want the European taxpayers' money to be stolen by you; they do not want the past 12 years of practice to continue, which is about building their oligarch network from European Union funds, which is what the Prime Minister's family is now getting rich from, but his salary has also been paid, but the billions of dollars of his family's wealth is clearly visible; they do not want these EU funds to be used for investments that do not strengthen Hungarian competitiveness. Therefore, the European Union expects Hungary to liquidate this corruption state mafia network, and you do not respond that we are all right to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, we will eliminate this type of EU money use practice, but you will bring in a proposal for a resolution, which is not going forward, but most of all, and you would like Hungary to be a member of a European community that is not about cooperation, but about national state warfare. This proposal for a decision is therefore completely unacceptable. And then, turning to the specific text of the decision proposal, paragraph 3 of this proposal says:. The Parliament regrets that the Conference has become a minister of political, ideological aspirations of the forces involved in the elimination of the sovereignty of the Member States and in increasing the power of EU bureaucracy by excluding a significant proportion of the civil contributions instead of open and democratic dialogue. The answer will then be given, and Minister of State Répássy, representing the government, is why Viktor Orbán signed the closing statement in which the European Council adopted the conference report a few days ago, the report of the three co-chairs, and adopted the principles and guidelines set out in this Final Declaration, for example, that the European Parliament does not want to be terminated by this closing document, but that it wants to give even wider powers, but also the right to legislate, it is also included in this report, and it talks about the need to review the competences of the Member States, but not in the way you think, but I would like to review it precisely so that they can achieve even wider and deeper cooperation. The document closing the summit itself says that the European Council takes note of the proposals contained in the report to the three co-chairs on the outcome of the conference. At the end of this final document, Viktor Orbán's signature is there. So what are we arguing about? What are we talking about? Now the Hungarian Parliament is making a completely opposite proposal for a resolution, as was voted by Viktor Orbán at the European Council, so I do not understand. Now there's a problem in the dialogue, or there's something wrong with the system. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There are many problems!]] that your Prime Minister in Brussels, at the European Council, does not speak a single word about the final document and the report, accepts, votes, and then signs it, and we are here at six o'clock in the evening, and we are talking about how to break a pepper under Viktor Orbán's nose. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: That's not what we're talking about!]] How do we question his vote in the European Council? They are indeed brave people, and I must say that the authors of the proposal are also you, who are arguing against Viktor Orbán. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Thank you.]] This report, as I have mentioned, also states that the conference report also initiates closer cooperation in some new areas, and the final document confirms that there is more European competence, for example, in the area of health, which we can support to a large extent. Yes, the proposal for a resolution contains two points with which we can agree: this is the part concerning minority rights and the acceleration of accession to the Western Balkans. We can support these, too, but this alone is only a half-half point in this proposal for a resolution. So the opposition is in such a strange position because it protects Prime Minister Viktor Orbán against you because we agree with Viktor Orbán, who signed, accepted and voted in favour of the closing document of this conference at the European Council, because, as this report states, the report containing the opinion of the Hungarian people was also adopted by the Prime Minister. I hope you won't have a few unpleasant days when the Prime Minister asks what you have been discussing here in Parliament, when this is in stark contrast to my position. So I wish you a lot of strength and courage for the next period. Thank you very much. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Thank you very much.]]
u2022-06-28-164	Welcome, fellow Members. At the same time, I give the floor to László Toroczkai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. Here you go, Your Honour. Speaking from the platform.
u2022-06-28-165	Dear Parliament, I will start by saying that this proposal for a resolution is voted and supported by the Hungarian Movement, but we have very serious and strong reservations, and I would like to look more closely at a few points of the proposal for a resolution. One of our serious problems is that, in the case of Fidesz, we are often confronted with double speech, so by saying something different here in the Parliament, they say something different to Hungarians in Hungary than they do with their votes in European forums. We have seen, among other things, at the European Heads of Government's summit in Versailles that, when the suicide sanctions against Russia started, Viktor Orbán supported them, so that the avalanche, which is now really the end of which is actually going to destroy not Russia, but Europe, was also involved in the launch of Viktor Orbán, or we can think of signing the aforementioned final declaration, or of supporting Ukraine's status as a candidate for the European Union. So we have a problem with this double speech from Fidesz. [[18.10]] With the proposal for a decision itself, it is not essential, because if we read through the proposal for a resolution, they contain well-sounding words and sentences with which the Hungarian Movement can basically agree, but there are some very serious rebuttal points here, which I will highlight in particular. But first, let us talk a little bit about the need for this debate to be about the future of the European Union and also about its present. At present, when we look at the European Union, we see it as a picture of a declining empire. The European Union, and Europe in general, in an economic and political sense, has been made great and rich at some time by Europeans, and by the work, diligence and talent of the indigenous European population, and not by politicians who are parasite in Europe and who are currently destroying the European Union, which, on the basis of all economic, demographic and other indicators, is constantly falling and losing its strength. While this proposal for a resolution is also a serious deficiency in this proposal for a resolution, if you want to talk about the European Union, especially if your future would have had to be viewed globally, and we have not seen any references or signs here from the other parties or from the parties to the government. And right in front of us is the new world order, a new world order that is going to ruin the dreams of Americans and of global large American radicals, because it will not be a single-pole world order in the future, but at least a two-pole world order. We see in the context of the Ukrainian war, which is not the Ukrainian war, it is not the Ukrainians competing with the Russians, but in fact two huge blocks, and no one talks about one block in Hungary, here in the National Assembly, and the so-called BRICS is coming up stone hard with Russia, Brazil, India, China and the Republic of South Africa, breaking off the dollar and developing this bipolar world order. The question is where we Hungarians will find ourselves in this bipolar world order and what we want to do with the European Union, because the European Union currently does not function as an economic or political empire led by European people, but as a colonial empire, it is in colonial function, in the hands of the United States of America and, above all, of the global large corporations that exercise real power in the United States of America, primarily multinational companies, banks, financial institutions and credit rating agencies. By the way, there is a very, very good example of this, and I can almost say that it is a symbolic case when José Manuel Barroso, who, if I remember correctly, led the European Commission for ten years, led the European Union, at present Goldman Sachs, and after a global company I like to call them pig-headed lords after my Ady Endre, is currently the president of this Goldman Sachs, so he received his reward and received the supplement to his pension. Moreover, Mr Barroso, former dictator and leader of the European Union, non-executive president, is not an executive president at Goldman Sachs, so that means that this is a pension supplement that he is currently receiving from his clients, a global large company. Such people have led and are currently leading the European Union. So we have not talked about the fact that Europeans who, with their work, talent and diligence, have made this Europe and the European Union great, rich and strong, would have any say in the functioning of the European Union. That is what we should be talking about, and that politicians who are in the hands of these global corporations, digital techs, investment banks, these politicians who act as a kind of slave, serve their masters, know exactly what to do. And in this Parliament, here and in Hungary, András Fekete-Győr was sitting here just now, he has just left, but we have heard his speech. I'm sorry that you left in the meantime, because it would have been nice to say to your eyes that you don't usually talk about how, at the moment of Momentum's birth, you must have had very good relationships in Paris, if Emmanuel Macron, an employee of the Rothschild Bank, has been assisting you and your lovely wife at the moment of the birth of the Momentum, in common photos at the Élysée Palace. So I don't know if we should say that I, a member of Parliament, are currently alone in this Parliament, the only party that has entered Parliament alone, alone, on a list, so if I just checked in with Mr Macron, he would be taking photos at the Élysée Palace with me. It would have been nice to talk to András Fekete-Győr about this, because he is an ectant example of an extremely good symbol like Barroso, only Barroso is more talented than András Fekete-Győr, so a good example of how the European Union works. That not the movements and parties created by the people, not organised from the bottom, actually govern the European Union, such as, let's say, the Mi Hazank Movement, which we created in Hungary's excavation, in a very transparent, transparent manner, with the participation of thousands of Hungarians, so they represent parties created in some secret and smoky rooms. They are currently in control of the European Union. The wisdom of the Hungarian people and the lack of talent of the Momentum, or the lack of talent, is that they have not yet been able to govern or win elections in Hungary. By the way, it doesn't seem to work, no matter how much they try to learn from the Democratic Coalition, like an adult, similarly functioning party. So my main problem is that, as long as the European Union works like this, I say in this proposal for a decision which point this is in, point 6 does not really matter whether the representatives of the European Parliament are delegated by national parliaments. It doesn't matter, because for now it is an act, and unfortunately all the countries of Europe are a kind of sacrifice. This must therefore be fundamentally and, of course, in view of the global spectrum, something must be changed. Then there is a point on the need to delete the goal of ever closer unity in contracts. We fully agree with this, but at the end of this sentence, we would have liked so many additions if the author had done so, that we would also like to prevent the European united states. So let's name it bravely what this ever closer unity is all about. This is about a European united states, so, if possible, please include this. The Hungarian Movement strongly opposes the idea of the European United States. By the way, this would once again symbolically, symbolically confirm that the United States of America wants to establish its colony under the name of European United States. We strongly reject this, and by the way, we cheer the Americans on trying to regain control of their own country, but it's none of our business. We are Europeans, we are Hungarians. Then I also underlined here, again in point 6 that I would like to set up a common European army on the basis of the proposal for a resolution. Yes, that if we see that our world has changed dangerously, and we are not moving towards peace, not world peace, it is becoming completely unpredictable, or world politics has now become completely transformed by the change of world order, and, as I have just said, they have not yet talked much about BRICS in the Hungarian Parliament, these emerging states, which, by the way, only represent 40 percent of the world's population in terms of their population, so there is a rather bipolar world order here. In this bipolar world order, there is a European army, but not in fact NATO, because if we cannot change overall in the European Union and the European Union's governance will not be much more democratic and transparent, then in fact this European common army will be some sort of, I don't know, subordinate organization of NATO. Obviously, we cannot support it in this way, in this form. We can only support it if the European Union transforms into an economic alliance of independent sovereign European nations. And in this respect, it may be political that it can even create a common army, but it must only perform defence functions, and in the case of NATO, we can see that it has been more offensive functions, and that, by the way, it did not need UN, OSCE, approval or agreement of anything, we could have seen it during the bombing of Yugoslavia or Serbia, and NATO could have done so. So, if it belongs to NATO, and it will be run by such global corporations, then we can't support it either. [[18.20]] In the case of the European Union, there is much more to see, for example, that not only the European Union itself is dying and losing its leading economic position, it is clear that not only China has left the European Union now, and not only the United States of America, which has already become stronger in economic terms, but also the aforementioned BRICS countries, India and other countries, are beginning to catch up and the Member States of the European Union are starting to break down. We cannot remain members of a European Union where they want to drag us into such an economic downturn, where the reconstruction of Ukraine might also have to be financed by the Member States of the European Union. And let us also say that if it had not yet been said here in Parliament that, in ten years' time, we will be a net contributor in the European Union looking at current trends, so it will not be economically worthwhile to belong to the Union in a few years' time. But if we see that the population of an ageing Europe will fall from 740 million to 600 million by the end of the century, and obviously I would not count migrants among Europeans, then we also need to see that Europe is declining from a demographic, population and not only from a political and economic point of view. And we should not wait for Hungary and the Hungarians to be dragged with them in the face of the decline. The government should have started twelve years ago to build a Hungarian, independent, independent national economy, and it is extremely saddened that we cannot support next year's budget that we do not see any efforts in the budget. We continue to see that they want to serve the multinationals, the multinationals in Hungary, who in many cases took the place of Hungarian businesses. That is why we would like Fidesz to make a radical change to this economic policy and to prepare for life outside the European Union, since Viktor Orbán once said that there is life outside the European Union. It seems that this is what Hungary must now be prepared for. Overall, with all these criticisms, proposals, the proposal for a resolution itself, the presentation of the Hungarian Movement will vote, we can support it, but we can see that either they have not thought it right or have not fully considered this proposal for a resolution, we trust that it can be supplemented or not thought about or think about it globally, only within the European Union. However, we are asking the government to think about the Hungarian future even if the European Union is going to fall apart. We would like a referendum, because the Hungarians have been fooled by the referendum once, since the Hungarians know that we have not opened pastry shops in Vienna in bulk, we would like to ask the Hungarians again what they think, but I think that by the time we get to the referendum, there is a real chance that the European Union will execute itself and it will fall apart if it continues like this. So in any case we ask the government to reconsider the draft budget and to think about how to build a Hungarian national economy, to have a Hungarian future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2022-06-28-166	We now have the lead speaker of the LMP Group, Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-167	Thank you for the floor. The words spoken here are very typical of the debate on the European Union in Hungary. The proposal for a decision itself, although it contains eligible parts, such as the part concerning the protection of indigenous minorities, shows essentially the debate between right- and left-wing liberals in Europe. In our opinion, the narrative that we have been telling ourselves about the European Union since 1990 in Hungary is a false narrative. The founders of the European Union, about which everyone sings different hagiographies across Europe, are a XIX. In the first century, Western European people were born from the leadership of Western countries rich in colonialism. They invented a political architecture for three major Western countries and three small Benelux countries, and our opinion differs from that of the liberals in our view that the European Union's political architecture was not brought by humanist awakening after the tragedy of World War II, the European Union was actually brought by the Cold War and the United States' will that the bipolar world should have a European imprint. The fact is that, in our opinion, the Roman Treaty cannot be interpreted in 57 without the events of Sueen in 56 which meant the end of European imperialism, and it was one of the biggest exotic shocks for the major Western countries. We think and this is what very intelligent people have said about the United States, that, despite the change in the economic structure of the European Union, many things have changed, in terms of its political structure they are very outdated, they have been created in a world that has already disappeared. Before the former members of the SZDSZ Parliament and the Rarity of Life and Literature write that I am a fascist, I would like to indicate that I have just quoted the words of the left-wing intellect Susan Watkins. By the way, he is the one about Jean-Claude Juncker, who was supported by the vote of Tamás Deutsch when he became President of the Commission, who said that he did not receive legitimacy from European voters, not from the 12 percent who voted for the European People's Party; he answered only one man, Jean-Claude Juncker, and this was the German Chancellor. And I would like to come back to this later, that this document does not respond to German and, in a small part, French hegemony, without which, in our opinion, it does not have much in common with the European geopolitical reality. What has happened since then is the end of the bipolar world, and then the unipolar world, and then the crisis of NATO and the expansion of the EU, including the accession of our country and our region to the European Union, and the fact that Britain has already left the European Union means that this political architecture is obsolete in such a way that it can no longer maintain the impression that it actually works. The fact that the Spitzenkandidaten system was tricked by the people who fought the most for its creation, in order for the German Chancellor to send his greatest domestic political opponent to Brussels at that time, shows that they are actually creating things that no longer have the energy to operate. The fact is that it is possible to talk about more European defence capabilities and European foreign policy if Europe is truly sovereign and European sovereigns can really decide for themselves. The German-French hegemony cannot be maintained until Germany considers itself a self-obsessed country in the sense that it cannot create autonomous defence capabilities, and therefore we consider it very important and positive to announce the current German chancellor that Germany will be involved in the development of warfare. This document does not respond to various crisis symptoms either. The word climate change doesn't say. There's a reference to the future generation, that could mean a lot of things. At the same time, climate change is not the word in it. The debate on the sixth economic penalty due to the Ukrainian-Russian war showed that the leadership of the European Union can offer two opportunities to European voters, including Hungarian voters. One option is oil or gas delivered on Qatar's LNG and the other is the Europe of Nord Stream II, namely Gazprom, where former German and French politicians sit in the supervisory board. Orbán chooses the latter, and many European politicians choose the latter. We don't think any of these decisions are right. Industrial lobbyists have taken Europe's leadership hostage instead of social Europe, this is not mentioned in the document, nor does the document state that although some people are fighting tax havens in the European Union, there are also heads of state leaders in Hungary, among others, who will do anything to preserve tax havens. There are usually two sides to the debate on the European Union. One is the need to continue what the founders have created, and the ever closer integration in the current neoliberal structure will be a positive thing that will bring the Canaan to our country. This is where things are said that no matter what the Commission says, angels brought it to us on fanfares. There is another narrative that says that the whole convergence rhetoric was a SZDSZ lie, that we must return to what the founding fathers wanted in whatever it was, this is such a cross-death psychoanalysis, and that we must create a Europe of nations, which means that Viktor Orbán has the personal opportunity to create economic growth from the three of German capital, the artificially cheap Hungarian workforce and Russian energy. In our view, the world has changed so much that, in fact, this debate will become a solution, hopefully, a solution that is not yet visible. [[18.30]] The principle of four freedoms does not work, it does not work for the Hungarian people, as has been said before, no one or very few confectioners opened in Vienna, and the lie they said at the time of accession was not true at all, that there would be a European standard of living, a standard of living in Austria in Hungary. This did not become true because the system which in itself maintains the Austrian and German standard of living is the system that keeps Hungarians low. The two are connected. In this system, the two can't be approached. The fact is that the principle of three responsibilities, responsibility for consumers, land and society, should be promoted. For example, the free flow of capital in the European Union is partly unjustified, as land is not a possible animal and partly results in absurd and bad things. Although Denmark and Hungary have developed situations in which this European principle can be curbed, it is still a problem that this is in itself. The free movement of capital, labour and goods should not be increased, but reduced and restricted. In Hungary, the free movement of capital, labour and goods means that we are trying to compete with our wages by trying to pay very little tax, trying to compete, and that means training people in Hungary who unfortunately need to go to the Western labour market and reducing the demographic crisis there. Some things are missing in our opinion from this resolution, and if you will allow us, we will not make them an amendment, because we all know how this ends. We'd probably just be wasting each other's time. One is the unsustainableness of the euro zone. In our view, the euro zone does not work in its current form. What happened to Greece after the 2008 crisis shows that for semi-periphery countries, even if they are able to gain benefits in the accession of the euro, the euro area alone is unsustainable and not a crisis-resistant formation. Again, I would like to say to the weekly paper mentioned above that this is what the current central bank president sees. European policy is being poisoned by an industrial lobby that you can never hear the Fidesz talk about. I just want to give you one piece of data. The company Bayer is lobbying a billion forints a year according to the EU lobby database itself. So the confessed lobby money is one billion. Let us think about what lobby money could be going to Brussels if the one billion of these confessed. They do not talk about the fact that the impact of this lobby, by including it in the Hungarian Fundamental Law that it needs to be GMO-free, is, however, the authorisation of new GMOs is an EU directive, which the Minister of Agriculture supports. Therefore, they do not talk about the process in which economic interest groups buy the decision-making of the European Union. The issue of brain drain, not only within the European Union, but outside the European Union, is also something we are not talking about. I would recommend the opinion of the former President of Ghana that he would be pleased not to be taken away from there instead of aid in the hope of a better life for whom they have had difficulty training, and that would do more to enable the former colonial countries to catch up with colonials than a poor relief system. The withdrawal of Western profits, the outsourcing of production, the use of conservation rules by people to relocate production to countries where they do not need to be respected, is therefore cheaper and then imported at very low prices, also unsustainable, causes climate change and does not help the European Union. Overall, everything that the leadership of the European Union is doing against the global south shows that in a lot of things they have not changed the colonial rhetoric, colonial reality that they have done before. We believe that free trade agreements should not be extended, should not be continued. We very much hope that the idea of a free trade zone between the European Union and the United States will not come back, which has already come up once before, and then perhaps as the only positive effect of the Trump administration, it fell to dust at that time. Overall, the conference on the future of the European Union gave everyone the opportunity in Hungarian public life. The ruling party could say that they were the only ones representing national interests, without saying a word about German capital. The Hungarian liberals could say that they are the only holders of the recipe for catching up with the West. And we didn't actually say anything about how Hungary's place on the European Union's periphery will change. In fact, there are people in the current leadership of the European Union who do good things. There was a Slovak Commissioner who fought in Don Quixote in Northern Stream II. Against what was a very nice thing. There was a Danish Commissioner who fought in Don Quixote to get the big tech companies to pay some kind of tax, so far he's not a success either. So there are people in the leadership of the European Union who want to do a good thing. But simply the structure of a political machine created to partly meet the foreign policy interests of the German, French capital and, in part, the United States, will not be sustainable if the world under it has changed. In my opinion, as long as we do not speak frankly about this, it is possible to accept such a proposal for a resolution and nothing will fundamentally change. And we think, even if many people no longer think so, that, as politics can be different, there may be another Europe once in a while. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-06-28-168	We have reached the end of the speech by the lead speaker, and since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we now have further speeches from its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, the representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-169	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The conference on the future of the European Union came at an important historic time. It has been a great opportunity in a situation where the general experience has been that the EU institutions have been working for years not to strengthen and make Member States more competitive, but to ideologically regulate them. Instead of economy and competitiveness, migration, genderideology and rule of law issues are still dealt with in Brussels bureaucracy. But the conference was a disappointment in every way. Overall, very few people participated, Hungary was one of the top riders, but we were swept off. The conference secretariat refused to recognise the Hungarian debate groups. Dear House, The European Union is constantly declining in global competition. It represents a declining share of the world's total product and industrial production, its large companies are in need of global leadership, not only the United States but China is clearly ahead of it in the field of innovation, its military power is becoming less and less understandable worldwide, and it is not a dominant political player in its immediate neighbourhood, the Western Balkans. In 2008, the EU accounted for 25% of the world's GDP, i.e. its total product, and only 18% in 2019. The EU accounted for 22% of the world's total industrial added value in 2008 and only 15% in 2019. Among the 50 largest companies in the world, 14 were Europeans in 2001, today only 7. There is no EU location among the world's ten largest financial centres. Thirty years ago, the European Union made seven times as many patent applications as China, today China is 14 times as much as the European Union. In the last 25 years, 20 companies have been established that are now worth over a hundred billion dollars, nine American, eight Chinese and European companies are not among them. In the last thirty years, the United States has increased its military spending by more than 30 percent, or nine times China, or 900 percent. The Union stands where it stood 30 years ago. In recent years, the Union has fallen from crisis to crisis. It came out weak from the debt crisis in 2009-2010, suffered serious, unhealed wounds in the refugee crisis in 2015 and lost its military strongest and economically strongest Member State in 2020 and also achieved tragic performance in dealing with the virus crisis. What is the solution to these problems according to the EU institutions? Perhaps increasing competitiveness and reducing debt? Putting the economy and military power at the centre? Respect for the political identities of the Member States? Accelerating enlargement in the Western Balkans? No. [[18.40]] According to the EU institutions, what we need, what will solve all these problems is to abolish the veto rights of the Member States, to grant Parliament a legislative initiative, to introduce a system of top candidates and transnational lists, i.e. to turn Brussels into an imperial centre and to turn the European Parliament into an imperial parliament. There are two problems with this approach; the first is practical, the second is philosophical. Firstly, the political institutions aim to represent the interests and values of citizens, and it is up to politicians to solve their problems. Compared to this, there is almost no problem that the European Parliament has solved, but it does its part in creating the problems. Its main activity seems to be trying to gain more power for itself, constantly attacking the EU treaties on which the Member States and the Union are based. Secondly, Parliament's aim is to represent the political nation. That is why the attempt to establish an Imperial Parliament is a mistake, because there is no European political nation. Anyone who wants to raise the European Parliament above national parliaments is not only a delusion, but also an enemy of democracy. If the veto rights of the Member States were abolished and the Imperial Parliament was established, as the Brussels elite and the Gyurcsány opposition, the Hungarian opposition, wanted, in practice, the Hungarian people would not be able to influence the development of the cases, they would not be able to represent Hungarian interests. The Imperial Centre represents its own interests, the Hungarian people's affairs would be overlooked. Then it is well prescribed that the corporate tax should be increased from 9 percent to 15 percent, that the price of fuels should not be limited and that there would be an immediate end to the cost reduction. We don't want that. The European Union is not a goal, but an instrument, a means to achieve our national freedom, so that Hungary can succeed as much as possible. This would require a European Union which is organised along the lines of the values set out in the Decision and which is why we support the declaration. Dear House, I would also like to make three specific points. One is the delegation principle, which was attacked by many. Indeed, the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Council is also organised in line with the delegation principle. I myself am a member of the Hungarian delegation. I do not see any problems of legitimacy in the functioning of Parliament, and I see the same problem as we see in the functioning of the European Parliament, that bureaucracy, in this case the Strasbourg bureaucracy, is taking over power, leaving Parliament, breaking away from decision-makers, and developing a central imperial interest that sweeps down nation-state interests. The other issue is the question of enlargement. It is in the EU's primary interest to have peace and stability in its immediate neighbourhood. EU enlargement policy is one of the instruments for this. The European integration of the neighbouring countries is also in our common geopolitical, strategic and economic interest. The credibility of the Union also depends on speeding up the accession process of the Western Balkan countries. It is necessary for Serbia and Montenegro to advance accession negotiations, to open negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania; Bosnia and Herzegovina should grant candidate status and Kosovo visa waiver. These are the important issues that the Union should address. And the third issue is the issue of migration and the interests of indigenous national communities. Indeed, it is sad to see the European Union expanding beyond its competence, constantly protecting the rights of migrants, illegal migrants, and, with a loose move, sweeping down the interests of indigenous national communities and initiatives aimed at regulating binding rules, guaranteeing the rights of indigenous national communities in the Union. Over 50 million European citizens belong to national minorities. There were two successful citizens' initiatives before the EU, all of which were swept by the European Union with a loose move. This is a sad story, I will say it once again, while, in the case of migrants, it is going beyond its competence, constantly trying to impose binding rules on the Member States. I would like to respond to some of my opposition fellow Members in a few points. I am pleased that our fellow Member Gergely Arató has returned because he has said things that we cannot agree with. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He says we broke the rules, it's not true, we didn't break the rules! He also said that we voted in favour of the rules under which the European Union operates today. When the European Union was formed, when we became members of the European Union, there was no mention of migration, no mention of gender, and no double standards. I could also say that it does not fully reveal all the details of the truth that we want to leave the European Union. That is not the case, we must say again that this is not the case. The vast majority of the Hungarian population, the vast majority of the Fidesz voters, are in favour of our EU membership, and we want to stay in the EU. We would like to remain in a Union that also represents the interests of the Hungarian people, taking note of the interests of the Hungarian people. The sad question is that people in the European Union generally do not care about the fate of the European Union, they do not care about Brussels. It is clear that there are countries in our neighbourhood where participation in the European Union elections is below 30 percent. This also indicates that there is a democracy deficit here. Although it is a direct choice, and you have highlighted the importance of this principle of legitimacy, it is a sad fact that participation in the European Union elections, whether in Slovenia or in the Czech Republic or in Slovakia, was below 30 percent. What if it's not a democracy deficit? With regard to Jobbik, I found it difficult to follow my fellow Member Brenner Koloman's statement as to exactly what kind of party Jobbik, sometimes Euro-Atlantic, sometimes centre-conservative party, or people's party called Jobbik. It is very exciting in this left-wing coalition to figure out exactly what these very clever adjectives mean. He is a linguist, a scientific man Koloman, we work together in the European Council, so I know his commitment to languages at close range, and I regret that he could not interpret the point at the bottom of the first page, pass in the resolution. I think that this passage is clear, so this is about guaranteeing in a European Treaty that every country has a sovereign national right to decide whether or not to allow migrants to enter the territory of the European Union, and that it is not an EU competence to allow irregular migrants into the territory of the European Union. This language regulation is clear to me. Hopefully, your understanding will also be given to my fellow Member and he will be able to interpret this passage accurately. Unfortunately, the Momentum representative has already left. Probably the shock of yesterday's 2030 caused him so much pain that he now began learning basic fishing skills and made offensive comments on the Fidesz MEPs here. I also call on you to apologize, there is no place in Parliament for him to make such insults, even if we understand that the shock of 2030 did indeed leave a deep impression. My fellow Member, Péter Ungár, spoke about everything, the angels crossing the fanfares and the German capitalists. I would just like to say that he also had an idea of how the European Union was created, what was the moment of world politics, European, American or Soviet interest that created the European Union. I think that, when it was created, it was an important principle for the founding fathers to make decisions about Europe for the people of Europe, and I think that the principle that comes back in this resolution is that the European people should decide about Europe, the Hungarian people should decide about Hungary, and the representation of Hungarian interests in the European Union, the interests of the European people should appear, and the interests of Brussels should not be separated from the interests of the European people, the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-170	Mr Tamás Deutsch, Member of the Fidesz European Parliament, spoke again. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-28-171	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[The opposition representatives point to the president.]] The fact is that my vague suspicions have been made convinced by this debate in Parliament that the representatives of the Hungarian Left do not know and understand the European Union, so I am trying to draw attention to the serious errors of some of the errors they have made. [[18.50]] The first thing is that, with the exception of the very respected group leaders of the two smallest opposition groups, they prefer to put forward the deliberate slippage that the parliamentary resolution proposal is about minority rights. Hell, no. I'd like to quote a classic that's understandable to you. EU guarantee of the rights of indigenous national minorities. Indeed, minority rights and indigenous national minority rights, I do not say that they are not in a thank-you relationship, but the problem is precisely that they exclude from the benefits of protection measures on minority rights 50 million citizens of the European Union, who belong to indigenous national minorities, in everyday practice. So I can respectfully say that their total insensitiveness to the problems of indigenous national minorities, such as the problem of Hungarian national minorities living beyond the border, should be put to an end once and for all, and at least this term technicus with enough hatred that you have about national affairs, but be able to say that it is not about minority rights, but about indigenous national minorities. Second, let me say that there is nothing more tiring than a European mantra, that the only value set out in the establishment of the European Union, which was undamaged, is that of the peace of continental Europe, be kind... [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] No, no, no, I'm just looking at Congressman Ungár, he didn't say that, by the way, who knows how many small opposition groups, the highly respected head of the MSZP, have said that. The continental European peace, the South Slavic war, the Northern Ireland civil war, the semi-civil war in Germany, and the conditions in Spain, and now in Ukraine, in the light of the hot war in the continental Europe area, I don't want to say that it's a historical mistake in which you get a single in the upper class of primary school, if that's what you say. It didn't work. The state of continental Europe free from hot wars, peace, has not been maintained by the European Union either. As far as the rule of law is concerned, I see an excellent opportunity to finally say that the rule of law definition in Article 2 of the EU Treaty is intended to regulate the conditions of the rule of law that the European Union institutions must fulfil in their operation. This has been translated into the fact that the EU Treaty is otherwise related to the rule of law of the Member States. What Jobbik's representative has said about the Beneš Decrees, I would like to quote the phrase "the " does not know, does not understand." The Czech Republic and Slovakia have been members of the European Union and, since 2004, they have been members of the European Union since 2004, and I do not know how many empty arguments have been made and this decree is still in force in these two countries. Let's not pretend that the European Union has done anything worthwhile about the Beneš Decree. He assists, quietly accepts a completely amazing legal norm, which, on the basis of the principle of collective guilt, forced those of the Hungarian nation to leave his own place of birth in a violent eviction... no, I do not say that he forced those of the Hungarian nation to leave in the framework of evacuation. How do I put it, the leader of the Momentum faction? I would like to express my strong objection to his acceptable soft gayness. I think that neither soft nor soft gayness has a place in the Hungarian Parliament. So the next time you see him, the 2030 shock here, the 2030 shock there, I think that's gonna keep you from doing that. There is not one single power that a single EU Member State would have delegated to the European Union. I beg you, Members of Parliament from many universities are sitting here, teaching European Union knowledge at all universities: the European Union Member States have not delegated any powers falling within the sovereignty of the Member States, but have agreed on the joint exercise of certain powers through the European Union institutions. Once again, this more annoying, political-motivated slide should be nice as a serious material error to stop once and for all. Neither Hungary, France, Sweden, nor the remaining 24 members of the European Union will be transferred to the European Union by a single authority under the sovereignty of the Member States. It exercises certain powers jointly through EU institutions. Last but not least, after the little things, the two most important comments. I seem to be able to be here relatively few times in person today, but many of Parliament's debates may be largely on issues that are loosely or less loosely linked to the issue of the agenda. I'd argue with the wording of an excellent friend for a moment. I think you were talking about very important issues, Congressman Ungár. He didn't talk about everything, he talked about very important issues. These are not the subject of the present proposal. I would be delighted to be able to discuss these issues, just as others have raised such questions. On the other hand, what is related to the present proposal and could be affected by improvements in its intention to amend it should not be of little faith. I highly recommend that you submit these amendments, so that the authors have the opportunity to think about them and, if appropriate, to accept them if they are of sufficient professional merit. That's another question, and how should I put it? His airiness allows me to react in such a way that all that he has said here is a very interesting personal political tragedy. With such views, how was it possible to create an election alliance in sorrow, with the partners who sit on your right, the left and left of political life, and the most radical left? Obviously, we'll hear from you in your flashbacks. But what is essential is that the speeches that have just been made once again, except for the speech of the representatives of the two smallest opposition groups, it has been made clear that Fidesz and KDNP, KDNP and Fidesz are in the best possible place. A central force has been created for the future of Europe. Here we are in the middle, understanding the views of the overwhelming majority of Hungarian citizens, understanding the positions they have expressed in this Parliamentary resolution proposal, and, of course, there are on one side the globalist ideas on which the most terrifying summary was formulated by Mr Arató, which talks about the future of democracy in the European Union where the most anti-democratic, how should I put it? , even compared to the everyday censorship practiced by the mayor of your ranks, all the ideas from these common European materials that do not represent the federalist transformation have been pulled out with a harsher censorship than they do, and then at home they say that the sovereign Hungarian Parliament should not, in its own decision, appear the ideas that tens and hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens think and which you have already managed to censored in Brussels once, so how does Fidesz and KDNP come about, that these ideas should appear in this parliamentary resolution proposal. So, on the one hand, this globalist mantra full of terrible exaggerations, and on the other hand, very exciting against the new left-wing sign would obviously be opposed by Congressman Ungár, such a new left-wing fundamental antiglobalism, which also expresses quite exciting thoughts. I think that there is a place for the Parliament, if not in plenary, but also at committee meetings, to talk about these issues. [[19.00]] There is only one problem: today, these very long-term questions concerning almost historical abstraction are not part of the parliamentary decision proposal; a specific European Union political programme, the Hungarian Parliament's position on the future of the conference series on the future of Europe, which has been drawn up. And last but not least, to quote the worn-out Strasbourg and Brussels slogan of the last but not least, it is true that you do not know or understand, but do not want to understand, how the European Union institutions work. For a year, a series of conferences on the future of Europe was operated with a huge number of large comments and 342 mid-range comments, and the European Council, the board of Heads of State and Government, said that take note, we took note of this. So this whole initiative has come off the board of Heads of State or Government, just like, by the way, the squash of a massive blow from the concrete wall. It's not a convention, it's nothing further, so the thing is, it's one of these, you can say it calmly, maybe a little role-playing, a little Pharisee, disguised as kind, but they said no. So it is very right, this maximum, in the European Union, if I say no to something, then I can say yes, I understand what is in that document. It has not been accepted, it is not considered further, so what I can say is that it is very right that the body of the Heads of State and Government of the European Union has not dealt with this in a deeper, more friendly and more embracing manner, but as the dog has shaken it off. So what I can say is that, in this respect, at the end of the great effort, it seems that the Sovereignist forces with national commitments in the Council of the European Union are not at all bad. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-172	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President of the opposition, and Mr President, Mr Here you go.
u2022-06-28-173	Thank you very much. Dear House, Here, of course, we are not so sophisticated Europeans as a Member who understands everything perfectly in the European Union, we are only looking at these things from such a simple point of view in Budapest, Hungary, and it is quite clear what you are doing. It is quite clear that the whole vocabulary, the whole rhetoric, is a rhetoric to arouse an anti-European passion. Now the Beneš decrees and wars, civil wars and terrorism, in the presentation of the EU Member responsible for terrorism, for double standards, and even the devil knows what's going on. The European Union is a diabolical place from which you protect Hungary. Because we always need an enemy to protect Hungary from, now it may be that Uncle Soros Gyuri isn't doing so well. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You can always count on Gyurcsány.]] Now they're looking for someone else to protect this country from. I have to tell you, though, that I'm asking for one thing. The Members sitting here on the opposition side are as much patriots as you are. We may think differently about what is the national interest, we believe that the national interest is staying in the EU; we believe that the national interest is a well-functioning, strong European Union; we believe that the national interest is not to lead Hungary out of the EU, but to help it work well. Because you are very mistaken if you believe that Congressman Ungár supported you with his post-marxist inspiration, no doubt. [[Defiance.]] Do you know who supported you? The anti-European, extreme right-wing, radical Our country. Now, they support you, because at least they're honest and they say that this is an anti-European policy that you're pursuing. I have to say that we think this goes against the national interest, it's only in the interests of Fidesz and the interests of the government. This is not patriotic behaviour, but, on the contrary, a selfish policy contrary to the interests of Hungary. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum and LMP.]]
u2022-06-28-174	Our next two-minute speaker is Congresswoman Éva Sebők, Momentum. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-175	Thank you very much. Congressman, while I was here with Mrs Dóra Dúró, we split her address in half, divided it between us, so you don't have to worry about that anymore. At the same time, I would like to ask you not to ask for a list in the next EP elections, but to go home, play macramé, or I don't know. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'll tell you why. They forget so kindly, and I'm scared of it, I'm not always surprised about diaspora Hungarians. It completely missed the fact that it was also said here that this person should choose who he wants to live with and who he will also touch the emigrated Hungarians. He just skipped over it like that. Don't be a Member of the European Parliament with that attitude. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-176	A two-minute speech has been submitted by Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of the KDNP, and I will give him the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-177	Thank you very much. Madam President, I was inspired not by Tamás Deutsch's comment, but by opposition outbursts. Congresswoman, since you are a fresh Member, I would just say that who will be a Member of the European Parliament, it is up to the electorate, not you. [[Gergely Harvesto: As long as they are allowed to decide.]] The voters... [[To intervene:]] I understand that the Momentum, as DK's youth department, is now turning to help again. Voters, Congresswoman, decide when they contribute to the urns, who they would like to delegate to Brussels and Strasbourg to the European Parliament, who should represent them, who should be the 21 representatives of Hungary who would like to represent Hungarian interests in the European Parliament. The problem is that, after the 2019 European Parliament elections, your representatives, named Katalin Cseh and Anna Donáth, have turned around on this issue and thought that it was his job to represent the interests of Brussels at home, how to report daily, as you have acknowledged at Jourova Věra and the other Commissioners and Commissioners, how to make Hungary even stricter in the various reports, Commission documents and amendments based on double standards condemning Hungary and otherwise based on a number of lies, putting their proposals and sentences essentially anti-national and anti-Hungary amendments, which were intended to harm Hungary as much as possible. They said that they did not want Hungary to have access to EU funds, that they wanted Hungary to sit on an ideological bench of shame in the EU, because they disagree with your liberal mainstream ideas, but that you would tell Tamás Deutsch how he could be a MEP and that he could not, and what he should do in his free time, I think he is going beyond all limits. Voters must also be respected, honourable Member, and the last time, 13 out of 21 seats, the list of Fidesz-KDNP was respected by voters, including Tamás Deutsch, who is the head of the Hungarian delegation in Brussels and is struggling, honourable Member, to represent Hungarian interests there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-178	Since no one has spoken for another two minutes, we will return to our fellow Members who have asked for a normal word, and you will not only be able to know the thoughts of Congressman Péter Ungár from his recollections. [[Defiance.]] Since he will now be the next speaker at the plenary session. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-179	Thank you for the floor. Undoubtedly, it is a very bad thing to think about my recollections, because I have had the personal tragedy of becoming 31 years old recently. I just want to respond to a few things. First of all, postmarxist or new left-wing... the criticism of the European Union in system critical European ideas is a very profound idea. The British Labour Party opposed the existence of the European Union until the 1980s, and there are others from Sweden, Denmark and other European countries. Two things: one of the things that Congressman Deutsch has said is that it is appropriate to turn the meter of honesty a little, so the veto remains, as a matter of fact. But not only did Viktor Orbán say that he must stay, there are a lot of countries living with vetoes, let us admit that Ferenc Gyurcsány has vetoed the seven-year EU budget cycle for the longest time between Hungarian prime ministers in order to get more money, which is a basically right thing to get more money than less money. So if we return, neither Cyprus, Denmark, nor the Netherlands will allow the veto institution to be taken away. Therefore, the veto's institution is not really in danger, so what I could say about this resolution proposal, what Tibor Navracsics said to Gordon in Bajnai, is that it is very good, but what are you doing here? Then why are we talking about it as if it were a danger if you knew exactly that such a danger in European politics, that the veto would be lost, is not? [[19.10]] In fact, even the Spitzenkandidat system hasn't been implemented in material reality, I'm not talking about who writes what in a statement, I'm talking about it in this way, and you've assisted in this, let's be honest. So, in order for Von der Leyen to have the majority, we had to have Law and Justice and the vote of Fidesz, this German chancellor, who was Viktor Orbán's closest political ally, Angela Merkel negotiated with the two heads of government, and so Von der Leyen became President of the Commission, so that no living man voted for him, there was no living man who would have voted for him, because they lied to the citizens of the European Union that through the Spitzenkanedidat system, either Mr Weber or Mr Timmermans would be President of the Commission. In my opinion, this is only important because it does not seem to the European Parliament, as it does, that the broadening of powers is therefore an immediate threat from the direction of the world. One more thing that, while we are talking about, we should talk about the equality of national sovereignty and of the European Union for a moment, I think that it deserves that much. I'll start by letting you compliment me, and I'll end it with you scolding me. One of the biggest hypocrites of the western Member States of the European Union is that even after the annexation of Crimea, despite the sanctions, the deals they have made with Russia are extremely hypocritical. The peak example of this is North Stream II. It was a project that your former ally [[To Dr. Tamás Deutsch:]] As I understand it, your former personal friend called you the Molotov-Ribbentrop pipeline. The fact is that after that, Member States, i.e. the Eastern Central European Member States, stood out in the Northern Stream II. Mr.Orbán signed this joint letter for good relations in Poland at the time, but he was the first to think that this should happen, and he announced it when Vladimir Putin was here. I am only saying this because there were many opportunities when it could have been fought for the equality of the Member States before the institutions, because we knew precisely that neither the Estonians nor the Lithuanians could have created such a project, only because the Germans could afford more, but you were on their side because they expected different economic benefits, but this can still be said in a thousand ways. In addition to Angela Merkel, there was not much other Prime Minister than Viktor Orbán, who carried out the budget discipline fetish at this level. So I just want to say that the whole point of my very airy speech might have been that you would agree on a lot of things with those who actually run Europe, Mrs von der Leyen, who is obviously not poor, in which you will not admit it afterwards, and pretend to oppose things you actually support. Orbán voted with Angela Merkel 98,5 percent in the European Council, so what are we talking about? Well, there's such a big freedom fight here, except for some of those symbolic things, it wasn't really. Thank you.
u2022-06-28-180	Our next regular speaker is Congressman Richard Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-28-181	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, As one of the authors of today's topic... [[Lőrinc Nacsa pointing to the president:]] Not a locker. Sorry. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No, no!]] I just want to respond to a few things that have been said here in the last four hours. The proposal for a resolution before us, I believe, is clear and clear to everyone, which represents the opinion of Hungarian voters, and I add: its interests. It is particularly important, as we say, that the mother of a silent child does not understand her word that the Hungarian Parliament, which is one of the depositaries of Hungarian democracy and one of the depositaries of sovereignty, should make her voice heard on a matter that fundamentally affects the future of Europe and the situation and role of Hungary in the European Union. Unfortunately, we see that this is no longer the European Union in which we entered 12 years ago. There has been a struggle here in recent times in which we really need to find our place. And I would like to reassure my fellow opposition Members that Hungary does not wish to leave the European Union, this document is a poor reading of those who believe that this is a pre-exit document. It's not like that. It is simply that the Hungarian Parliament, which has the voice of its voters, has an opinion not only on Europe, on the future of Europe, and we have an opinion, and it hurts the left not only in Hungary but also in the European Union. This document is about us having a vision of the European Union, not only learning how the European Union works, but also seeing its future, and we want to play an active role in it. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to a few things. One of the fundamental issues is subsidiarity, which is very different for European decision-makers. We believe that this is one of the cornerstones of European democracy, so that national parliaments have a say in the legislative process, what is happening, what is placed on the table of the European Parliament, so that it has influence on national parliaments. At the moment, in relation to the principle of subsidiarity, the most outstanding issue is just an example of what is wrong with the current functioning of the European Parliament with the proposal for a Council regulation on the election of Members of the European Parliament on the basis of direct and universal suffrage. Listen to this proposal from the European Parliament. did not send them to the national parliaments, thereby depriveing them of their right to comment. Is this European democracy? The European Parliament, indeed, must say that this practice goes against the provisions of the Treaties, the Treaties currently in force, and thus does hinder the exercise of the control tasks of the national parliaments. And I regret that the European Parliament cannot meet the basic expectations of contracts in this draft regulation directly affecting all citizens of the Member States of the European Union, and in many respects, some MEPs come to Hungary and lecture us on the rule of law, the breach of obligations, and the rest. This is outrageous. By the way, the first excuse on this matter is to hear it. He came from Stockholm, the President of the Swedish Parliament sent his concerns to the President of the European Parliament, and I am aware that other Speakers are expected to object to this unprecedented practice because we believe it is important that national parliaments have the voice and power of European legislation. What is wrong with the current functioning and practice of the European Parliament? Well, yes, we must, for example, note that the European Parliament was basically the biggest winner of the treaty amendment of the last decades. It has become co-legislator in addition to the Council from a consultative forum, and this power is conferred on the institution in its intention of defining EU legislation. So we do not support the European Parliament's right of legislative initiative, because it would upset the three institutions, which were the delicate interinstitutional balance between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament, on the basis of which the European Union's legislative mechanism is still functioning today. And I would add here that it is known from Roman law that, in other words, no one can be a judge in his own case, because his decision would not be objective, and this, my fellow Members, means that anyone who initiates legislation does not take part in its adoption, and this principle is in the current institutional balance, and that would be upset by the European Parliament's proposal. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Well, that's why... (Gergely Harvester intervenes.) I'm sorry... [[19.20]] That's why we don't want any of this. I could bring up a number of cases that did break the laws contained in the Treaties on the part of the European Parliament that appear in the Lisbon Treaty. They are the ones who are breaking this document that is important to us, which is currently in force in the European Parliament and in the European Union. It is not that we want to put an end to the European Parliament; we just want to highlight that in this legislative process, national parliaments will have a much greater role to play in the future in order to remove the many democratic deficits that are mentioned today. For example, it appears in the elections to the European Parliament, they simply do not know what this is about. They are not going to choose, because they do not think that Brussels is affecting their everyday lives, even though that is the case. We would like to draw attention to the fact that, in recent times, they want to extend contracts by stealth legislation, by circumventing the powers of the European Parliament and, for example, the powers of the European Commission. We have learned that the European Commission is the guardian of the treaties. But now it's a political committee. We have experience with the communism and socialism of the last 40 years, and we do not want any of this. And perhaps we are more sensitive, Hungarian Members, whether in the European Parliament or even in the Hungarian Parliament, to draw attention to this danger. That's the process we're trying to stop. And I am convinced that not only the Hungarian Parliament, but also several other Central European and Western European parliaments, will draw attention to the fact that the European Union is on the wrong path. We question the usefulness of this last month, in which many Members and ordinary European citizens have been involved. Was there a result of this work? Well, I believe what my fellow Member, Tamás Deutsch, mentioned, is that the opinion of the European Council shows that it ignores the work that was partly done by representatives of national parliaments, MEPs, in order to improve the European Union. This shows that the dictatorship is not in the national parliaments, but in the European Parliament and European decision-makers. Well, that's what we'd like to draw attention to. This is why it is important that this proposal for a decision be made on the future of the European Union. And we would like to send this, as the document shows, to all European institutions, and I will represent it next month at the Committee on European Affairs of the European Union's national parliaments, the COSAC meeting, so that we can tell other colleagues that there is a problem. We have spoken in time, because if Europe does not transform in the way that many European citizens think it will, then it will not go forward, it will be putting it back. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-182	Tamás Deutsch, Member of the European Parliament, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-183	Thank you very much, Madam President. Three brief comments. First of all, I would like to say to the honourable Member of the Momentum that it is not because of what Mr Arato said in a sarcastic way that I would be a European among the whites. I am a Hungarian among Hungarians, but let me still say that you do not know and understand what rules apply in the European Union. If a European Union citizen goes to another EU country with the right of free movement, it is not the same as when migrants arrive to the European Union from outside the European Union by mass crossing illegal border crossings, and then want to relocate them from the Brussels centre to another country, and someone is taking action against this decision. Making a sign of equality between the two is a degree of indiscretion that even a momentist hears strange. I'm not so pompous as to be praised or reprimanded. Neither do I commend the leader of the faction, nor do I discipline him, but I would just like to say that I do not think politics is a Le Carré novel, like you, where you are always on whose side, how, what secret conspiracys exist, of course, and your fantastic intellectual ability helps us to understand secret conspiracys, and you are telling us this here. What I can say is that Hungarian politics works by Fidesz and KDNP not by looking at whose side we are on, but by looking at what is in our interest. And if it coincides with someone else and is great, it is good for us, and if it coincides with someone else and is small, then we have to get many little ones to get a majority, so not where, whose side we should take. As for you, Mr Arato, forget this DK hysterical once and for all. DK attacks its own country day after day by four representatives in the European Parliament. That's what we call it. We're not saying he's a traitor, but we don't say that. On the other hand, you keep saying that we are not democratic. Once and for all, I challenge you as a member of a post-communist party who has nothing to do with democracy, to hold us accountable and to call us anti-democrats. I resent that. What I can tell you is that you've been a toddler when we've been fighting for the freedom to say all this nonsense in this country, as you've just said in this Parliament. So, with all due respect, don't ever question the democratic commitment of those who disagree with you again, because that's really offensive. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-184	Congressman Gergely Arató is the next two-minute speaker. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-185	Honourable Congressman, You misunderstand democracy if you think you can determine what I can and cannot say. This is very far from what democracy means. And you misunderstand democracy if you think that DK MEPs must follow the instructions of the Orbán Government, as you do. It's a misunderstanding. I do not claim that you are not a Democrat, I cannot judge what you really think, but I think that the concept you represent, that it is essentially a traitor who pushes the chariot of your government to be very subtle, who represents its constituents either in Budapest or in Brussels, I must say that you have a very different vision of democracy than mine. [[Applause on the opposition side. Dr. Tamás Deutsch: I respectfully accept that.]]
u2022-06-28-186	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the general debate is closed. On behalf of the authors, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa indicated that he wished to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-28-187	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, We've had a very instructive debate. Gergely Harvesto said he could say anything, and we can't tell him what to say. You're absolutely right about that. You were the government in which, when people thought otherwise, it ended with sword-slapping and eye-shooting. What people think of democracy, let us be very clear about it. I think we've had an exciting debate. The proposal for a decision has enabled us to discuss the future of the European Union in a broad manner. These debates are important and could continue on a number of issues such as those raised by Peter Ungár. He deserves a special conference, say the formation of the German-French tandem in the Felsőházi room, or a special conference on the acquisition of the strategic autonomy of the European Union. Congressman Ungár said in the debate that it is a psychosis beyond death that we refer regularly to the founding and founders of the European Union, and that in his view it is not possible to know what the story of the founding of the European Union is and what the ideal was then. Well, let us make this clear once and for all: the European Union is a Christian Democratic innovation, a political innovation invented by Christian democrats. What was his main purpose in the post - World War II situation? Maintaining peace and stability on the European continent. We have heard from Congressman Tamás Deutsch how much peace has been achieved and how much the European Union has failed to achieve over the last decades; let us not talk about stability. The European Union was founded in a world where, against the growing international influence of the United States and the Soviet Union, the European community and the leaders and foreign ministers of the European major Member States thought that it was economically worthwhile to join European countries together in order to compete with the Soviet Union and the United States and to become an international factor with Europe's competitiveness all over the world. [[19.30]] I would like to bring the issue of competitiveness here because we see that in recent years the European Union has taken, knowingly, a number of decisions that have resulted in weakening its own competitiveness. It has taken decisions that have weakened the competitiveness of the European Union, and we believe that this is a wrong direction. The European Union must once again become a global competitor, the European Union must once again achieve the level of competitiveness at which it is able to compete with the major powers in this changed world economy situation. There is an example of the past period: in the form of an online meeting during the Covid period, we discussed trade papers and trade policies in a working group in Brussels, and we are not more representative of the functioning of the European Union, that four pages of the five-page commercial paper were about teaching different parts of the world. I think trade should be about trade, and yet the European Union's resolution was 80 percent about the education of other countries, other regions, other peoples and other powers, not about how to trade with these regions, with these countries in the current changing world economy. I wouldn't have thought of it before today's debate, and I'm not sure I would have put a hole in it, that it wouldn't be László Toroczkai who argued for Hungary's exit from the European Union, but Péter Ungár. For me, this was a new element of the debate, and I did not think that this would happen before the debate. I would have put my money on László Toroczkai; the competition was tight, but Péter Ungár won in this, I think. If we look at the strategic autonomy that the European Union should fight against both the United States and the neighbouring countries, so that the European Union can take its own destiny into its own hands, so that the European Union can decide its own fate, be able to compete with global powers and be able to take measures and decisions that will benefit its own citizens, not against European citizens, not against European lifestyle, but to make decisions for European families and European businesses in the centre of the European Union. It is not for nothing that we often say with sufficient irony in our voice that there is a bubble in Brussels. The people in the Brussels bubble, bureaucrats, think that they are in possession of the Philosopher's Stone, they are in complete ideological control and technocratic existence is in fact all the institutions in Brussels. They think that they need to strike right and left with an ideological hammer and discipline those political communities, MEPs, national parliaments or Member States who do not join the ideological line and say no to migration, say no to gender, say no to a number of decisions, initiatives, say no to, for example, the growing anti-religiousness or anti-Semitism in the centre of the European Union. I think it is wrong for the Brussels bubble to be built this way at the moment. In order to talk about enlargement, as this has also been mentioned, and the subject of the proposal for a decision, let us look at how worryingly the enlargement of the European Union has slowed down over the past period. At the same time, the enlargement process of the European Union has slowed down worryingly, when the ideas of the European Union central integration, the, more Europe, and as many Europes as possible have accelerated, and has become more and more of stealthy legislation, dereliction of powers and ideological punishments. During the same period, I would put this period for the last 15 years, and by twelve, enlargement was almost out of the question, and enlargement was even more and more back in the field. There are countries that have been candidate countries for many years, even decades, such as Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia or even Albania, which, not now, with the last decision when Ukraine and Moldova became candidate countries, but long ago, 5-7-8-10-12 years ago, have not made any meaningful progress with them. Many chapters have not been opened in the accession negotiations, no substantive accession negotiations have been launched, because also in the Brussels bubble, bureaucrats in Brussels do not understand that the European Union has an opportunity to open up to the Western Balkans. If you miss this opportunity and just pull, pull, pull, pull the so-called honeycomb in front of the Western Balkan countries, then after a while these countries will get bored of it, see that they will only receive promises, but never deliver, and they will say that they will not want to join the European Union. And, fellow Members, what then? In previous years, the Western Balkans have been a very unstable region, some great power will fill the gap there. We think it would be much more important than any other issue that the European Union is slamming hours, weeks, years in the European Parliament or at the various levels of the Commission, and it would be more important to work with all its might on enlargement so that these countries can become Member States as soon as possible, and the European Union will be stronger, because the European Union will be stronger with these Member States, with new countries, and not weaker. The proposal for a decision, honourable Members, is clear. Unfortunately, you have talked little about this, rather about your own European vision, especially the left-wing MEPs, about the feverish vision of the European United States. It seems that the representatives of DK, or even the representatives of the Momentum, would like them to no longer have the right to do so here in the Hungarian Parliament, to decide on this, and to decide on this, instead of us in Brussels. You have said that you want much stronger central power in Brussels, that you want to give Brussels much more power to decide on the life of Hungarians, not here in this beautiful room, but rather in Brussels and Strasbourg, rather, to decide how Hungarian families should live, how Hungarian businesses should pay taxes, how much we increase the Hungarian minimum wage, and so on. However, we believe that these questions belong here, this is part of our sovereignty, that we can decide how to live and how to organise the life of our own community here in Hungary. What we see is that the current contractual framework of the European Union is not fit to serve as a basis for cooperation in this period of crisis and danger. Accordingly, we have presented this proposal for a resolution and our ideas in order to amend the Treaties of the European Union in a direction where we can provide responses to current threats, migration, epidemics, war, economic challenges, and war inflation that are in the interest of European citizens, and not to the juicy ferment of Brussels bureaucrats' ideologies. I am asking you to reconsider your support; I am asking you to support the proposal for a decision on the future of the European Union. Thank you very much to my fellow pro-government Members for their trust and support. I believe that this document, if accepted by the Hungarian Parliament, can serve as an important basis for the debate on the future of the European Union and in the fights of the next period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-188	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain electoral laws and related laws until closure. The government referral is T/367. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-189	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, For the first time in the history of Hungary this spring, a general parliamentary election and a national referendum were held on one day in a joint procedure, which, as the president of the National Election Office explained in the report of the Parliament's inaugural meeting, took place smoothly. The president of the National Election Office also indicated in his report that the electoral procedure will be evaluated by the heads of regional and parliamentary single mandate constituency electoral offices, and will draw up proposals for legislative amendments to the elections based on their practical experience and lessons learned from them. These proposals were received last week by the Ministry of Justice, which was submitted to Parliament without any addition in the form of a bill. [[19.40]] In the light of what has just been said, the proposal submitted contains only the proposals made by the National Election Office and the electoral law enforcement bodies, because, as I have said, the election of the members of Parliament in 2022 in the joint procedure and the experience of the enforcement of the law gathered during the national referendum make it necessary to clarify and amend certain detailed rules. [[Sic!]] This is how the law on the rights of nationalities, the law on electoral proceedings, the initiative of the referendum, the European citizens' initiative and the law on the referendum procedure are amended. First of all, it is appropriate to mention that the amendment makes it clear that the Hungarian electoral committees are also competent to investigate and assess possible violations in the territory of non-Hungary, since so far the jurisdiction of the Hungarian electoral bodies does not apply to the assessment of violations of the Hungarian elections committed abroad under the rules in force. In addition, there will be a marked change in the appointed members of the National Election Committee. The main aim of the proposed change is to strengthen the professionalism represented by the body, to reduce the members' hyates resulting from the different legal bases of the mandate, which may exist during the transitional periods. In view of the priority role of the committee, it is therefore appropriate that not only the parties elected, but also the parties with a political group in Parliament, should entrust members with a degree in law to the committee. This is due to the fact that the term of office of the members is four years, so in addition to the elected members, they represent not only the permanence of the committee, but also, because of the qualification requirement, their role in ensuring a high level of professional quality on an ongoing basis is equivalent to that of the elected members. In the case of faction delegates, the proposal sets the date of termination of the mandate at a later date than before, on the day of the formation of the next Parliament, and at the same time eliminates the period when the committee operates without the appointed members. It is important to point out that the mandate of nominating organisations remains in the right of the parliamentary elections and the election of the members of the European Parliament, but in this respect the proposal is differentiated between the appointed members. In the case of NVB members delegated under the law of the list, there is no qualification requirement, as in the case of those entrusted by the political groups forming groups in the National Assembly with the most significant social support. However, their role in the Committee will therefore be different, they will have the right to take part in the meetings of the NVB during their term of office, and therefore have no right to vote, no need to take them into account from the point of view of the quorum and no entitlement to a fee. The proposal makes it clear that the legal consequences of the nominating organisation falling out of the candidate and list, such as the deletion of nominating organisations from the public register and, in the event of the loss of individual candidates and lists, the election office shall implement the deletion from the ballot paper, and no Commission decision shall be taken on this. Thus, the proposal sets a uniform deadline for the resignation of the candidate within 16 hours of the second day before the vote for each election, and therefore there is sufficient time to remove the names of the candidates who have resigned from the ballots by the Election Office. The proposal also lays down the formal terms of the waiver in order to avoid abuse. In all other cases, except for the death of the candidate, the loss is an additional legal consequence of another previous decision, while the resignation of the candidate and the withdrawal of the list are a unilateral declaration of law. Therefore, the removal of the missed candidate or list from the register or ballot paper is an administrative measure. This is also supported by the fact that the candidate and the list are eliminated by the death of the candidate, the declaration of rights in respect of resignation or withdrawal, and the decisions taken by previous judicial and electoral bodies, and not by the removal of nominating organisations, candidates and lists from the public register led by election offices or the National Election Office. The proposal therefore makes it clear that the election offices are responsible for the task. It is a guarantee rule that the removal shall be notified to the election committee deciding on registration. It is important to point out that, in the case of a request submitted on the basis of an individual candidate, the amount of the minimum wage multiplied by the number of mandates on the basis of a list may at present lead to unjustified differences, so the proposal balances these disproportionateities by linking the level of the reporting fee to the number of voters included in the transmission. Dear Parliament, Although during this year's elections there were no significant lines of posts in the electoral districts designated for transfers, it is appropriate to specify in more detail the rules for dividing the register of voters appointed to carry out the roll-over vote, in order to ensure continuity of voting and to prevent voters from remaining in line in the future. Thus, according to the proposal, if the register is divided into several parts, no more than 800 voters can have access to a voting venue or sub-voting area, thus regulating at legal level an organisational issue affecting the conduct of a vote, which will serve the smoother conduct of the vote. Dear House, It is important to point out that, with regard to the delivery of a package of voting letters, it is appropriate to allow a registered voter who has requested the delivery of the package of letters by post but has not received it until the seventh day before the vote, to receive a supplementary package in person at any foreign representation or single mandate constituency election office. With this in mind, on the basis of the proposal, the issue of the supplementary package is conditional upon the Election Office to verify that the citizen is included in the register of voters in the letter and has requested the postal delivery of the voting package. It should be underlined that the plural vote is excluded that, when voting documents are checked, the second and subsequent voting documents from the same voter will be filtered out on the basis of the identification declaration. It is important to point out that, on the basis of the experience gained so far, in the event that the body of representatives of the minority self-government declares its dissolution or is dissolved, in most cases these minority self-governments do not have sufficient resources to conduct an interim election. In view of the principle of responsible and efficient management of public funds, it is not always possible to expect the central budget to advance them and to bear them in the event of failure to implement them. Therefore, on the basis of the proposal, an interim election can only be set and maintained if the funds needed to conduct the interim election are available in the budget of the national minority self-government. If the source is not available, an interim election cannot be held, the minority self-government shall cease to exist, but in the next general elections the minority self-government may be re-established. By amending the Labour Code, the proposal introduces a provision in favour of participation in the elections, as set out in the law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies, and thus requires the employer to be able to vote in the election of members of the European Parliament in the elections of local government representatives and mayors, as well as representatives of national self-governments, and in a referendum. [[19.50]] Honourable Members, In the light of recent events, it is necessary to refer to an earlier decision of the Constitutional Court, which concluded that legal certainty, which is an integral part of the rule of law, requires the law to establish an appropriate legal institution for the preliminary constitutional examination of the issues on which the referendum initiative is based. The Panel explained that legal certainty is required in order to protect citizens' rights in relation to the referendum, that disputes that may arise in relation to the possibility of being put into the referendum or the question must be identified and decided before the collection of signatures begins. Voters should not, in the context of either a local or national referendum, be exposed to the issue of the issue of which they have supported for the referendum only after the end of the collection of signatures, not in the manner required by law, or the subject matter should not be the subject of the referendum for any reason. Therefore, in view of this, since the Constitutional Court has established, after collecting a sufficient number of signatures for the validation of certain referendum questions, that the relevant questions cannot be validated, the proposal therefore sets a time limit of 8 days for the submission of a constitutional complaint and 30 days for the decision of the Constitutional Court on the validation of the referendum issue. Thank you for your attention, and I ask this House to support the bill. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-190	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Csaba Hende, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-28-191	Madam President, Your Honour, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of Hungary states in Article 2 (1) that voters are entitled to exercise their right to vote by direct and secret ballot on the basis of general and equal suffrage, in an election guaranteeing the free expression of the will of voters. Suffrage is one of the most important citizens' rights, since a political community, a state, can only be viable in the long term if citizens feel they own the laws and are active citizens of that state. This is not only a condition for their participation in the functioning of the legislation, but also for their ability to make good decisions. Dear House, There was never such international interest in the Hungarian parliamentary elections as it was this year, 2022. We can reflect on the role that hysteria has played in all of this from abroad and in Hungary together and in synergy, but it is a fact that the Committee of Inquiry of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has delegated 312 observers from 45 countries. Finally, this organisation stated that the election was democratic, that it took place under appropriate legal conditions, and that everything was regular in relation to the organisation and technical conduct of the election. Then the question arises, even looking at the fact that there have never been so many observers, foreign observers who have looked and accessed everywhere, and according to their own reports, no one has hindered them in their work, examined everything, and found everything right. It has never been the case that opposition parties have delegated a large number of observers from Budapest to rural electoral districts due to the weakness of their rural organisations. László Mérő, the great mathematician and well-known opposition activist, was such an observer. In my constituency, for example, Ferenc Falus was the former national chief of staff, who had died since then, half the night he was forced to count the votes with his dear wife. So, László Mérő also said that if he thought about it well, he is quite certain that even if they were not there, the result would have been the same. Thus, the determination of opposition, Budapest-delegated, parachuted members of the committee, was fully consistent with international observers. I, Szombathely, in my constituency, had two OSCE observers, a very sympathetic, older Dutch gentleman and a young Czech woman who really walked around campaign offices and campaign events tirelessly, everywhere, watching everything. I received them with great openness with other colleagues, as nothing is more reassuring than the fact that, in the face of the fraud charges we are being accused of, unbiased, impartial foreign observers have determined that everything has indeed been done in accordance with the law. That is why it is so surprising that the politicians of one opposition party, the Democratic Coalition, are chanting that the government is illegal. This includes, of course, the claim that the election itself had to be illegal, because Parliament elected the government, the government can only be illegal if Parliament was also set up in an illegal way. I'd like to make one more fact out of it. So there have never been so many observers, there have never been so many observers, and there have never been so few complaints about finding election results or the election procedure. So when the election itself took place, on the one hand, international observers watched with árgus eyes, observers from the opposition parties from Budapest to the countryside observed the counting of votes and the whole procedure, and they found this to be in order to the extent that so few appeals have never been made in the history of democracy. Now, let's compare this with the statement that the government is illegal and that Parliament is illegal, and there was a problem in the election! Well, why didn't you say something then, please? (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) But if that is the case, of course, there is an extremely inconsistent view of their position, because it is possible to participate in an illegitimate parliament. Well, then why do you like sitting here? Then why are the congressmen taking the honors? Obviously, this illegal government is just such a political product. This will be mantraded in case you get conceived, but in reality you don't mean it either, because if you were serious, you would follow the guidelines of Tamás Bauer as a spiritual pharaoh on the left side of DK's spiritual moonyard, boycotting the functioning of Parliament, boycotting the position and boycotting the operation. But they don't do that, but they spread slander, so to speak, on the government, the only problem is that it falls from mandiner to you, because if you have noticed any problems with the election, why have you not complained? Why didn't you go to court, please? Obviously, because this adjective was invented, they thought it would help you break out of the pothole where they came from on April 3rd, but I have some bad news, and it seems that illegal government law doesn't help you. The latest polls show that, not only did they not get new voters, this House, but they could not keep their voters on 3 April. [[20.00]] Therefore, point 4 is replaced by the following: I started with a section on my contribution, which regulates the rights of observers and gives them virtually full freedom for the future as well. Bring in anyone, any number of observers, we're happy about it, because all this makes us feel better. Do you understand? After the fourth two-thirds, I say this to the honourable fellow Member of DK, who is obviously responding to all of this today. The bill before us, in line with the position expressed by the President of the National Election Office here at the inaugural meeting in his report, which has already been quoted in detail, Mr State Secretary, is of relatively minor significance, of course, in suffrage all the detailed rules are of great importance, since one of the most delicate parts of constitutional arrangement, constitutional law, is electoral law, but we must say that it contains mostly technical amendments. The simple reason for this is that life always brings up new problems. There has never been a case in which a national referendum and a parliamentary election were held at the same time, and this inevitably brought to the surface a number of issues the resolution of which, in line with the electoral bodies, the government, as its national author, is important, and as Members of Parliament, it is our duty to examine these clarification and circumstantial interpretation rules, to help improve the law. Yet there is a rule that I would like to speak about more. Do you remember that in the vicinity of Marosvásárhely, they found remarkably interesting, provocatively placed half-annihilated letter votes, which were burned, but only so well that it could be seen that in that bag there were only mail votes cast on opposition parties, because this was the way to make it look like someone had collected it, who knows what way, because it is a big question of how these votes cast on the opposition would have been obtained from a sealed envelope and destroyed to prevent it from reporting to the election result? It is interesting that a very similar phenomenon was observed four years ago, as was the case with letter votes, interestingly in the immediate vicinity of the current invention site. For someone who will tell me which well-known, extreme, left-wing journalist is close to her apartment, I will be happy to provide a bottle of good wine. Well, it's quite clear that this was a provocation, they tried to use it immediately, as one person jumping on the subject of opposition parties to demand the destruction of all cross-border mail votes. Obviously, the Election Committee has tried to clarify the facts, a lot of people, including Kelemen Hunor, President of the RMDSZ, have said their position on this. It was enough to put the facts side by side to expose the gross, vile attempt of fraud and provocation. Unfortunately, the Curia has also stated in its two decisions that the Hungarian electoral bodies, including the National Election Committee, have no jurisdiction to investigate the act or disorder that appears to violate the electoral order of Romania. So we'll never know who burned these ballots, how he got them, and what purpose he put them in, because there's a rule missing, which is now included in the bill, and the law also has one. §2 of the Act, when it says that this law must be applied outside Hungary and Hungary. So the territorial scope of the application of the law is actually extended to any part of the Earth, and I have the bad news for the person or persons who might try for the third time, perhaps again in the same area, to create the appearance of electoral fraud in the same way, and to discredit the votes of Hungarians across the border and ask for the annulment of it, because the Hungarian authorities and the Hungarian courts will have the opportunity to investigate such efforts. By the way, I understand that it is very, very painful for DK, MSZP and its related parts to be the result of the election, which is reflected in the written votes of Hungarian citizens living in attached areas. But please don't be mad at the mirror, think back to December 5, 2004, and you know, the Szeklers are not particularly interested in where, in which bag you can find cards. The point is... [[The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time]] Thank you very much for the warning, Mr President, that they know where to put the vote. Mr Secretary of State presented the rest of the provisions of the bill, and I do not want to discuss them, but what I said as a keynote speech, I thought it was important to say. I support the bill, and I ask that the Parliament support it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-192	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-06-28-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, there is a law here before us, and we are debating a matter that would otherwise be completely normal in a normal country, in a normal democracy, to discuss, to argue, to conflict arguments, and also to exchange ideas about professional proposals that are, or are, involved in, many of them in this bill. However, we are not living in a democracy, my honourable fellow Members, and the fact is that we also need to interpret this bill in another framework. My fellow Member Hende was kind enough to throw the ball, so I am forced to hit him, and indeed I and a number of my DK fellow Members, Mr Speaker, may have repeatedly been punished, because we have found that this is not how a legitimate government is created. There are certain conditions for a legitimate government to be legal. It's a free and fair choice, for example. A thousand things can be said for this Hungarian parliamentary election that took place now in April, but the fact that it was a free and fair choice cannot be said, honourable Members, is that it cannot be said. I understand, of course, we all understand that Fidesz has kept the facade of democracy and has built up an authoritarian regime. And when he feels like it, and when his interests dictate it, he refers to the facade of democracy, to see that there are still such things as, there are still independent institutions and the like, there are choices and other things, but when we look beyond things, it turns out in everyday operation, in specific stories that they are no longer according to democratic standards. And that's true of the election. My fellow Member Hende said a very true sentence: the electoral law, electoral rules are the most delicate part of the constitutional arrangement. You're absolutely right. [[20.10]] Compared to this, a bill comes here that there has been no consultation with the opposition, there has been no consultation, no political consultation on these issues. But not only what is in front of us in this law, but then let's expand it a little bit, because in the basic legislative debate that took place just a few hours ago, the arbitrary transfer of the municipal elections to another time, under other conditions, is what the interests of Fidesz dictate. Please, this is what this country looks like. If it's in Fidesz's best interest, then they bring in all kinds of billings here and there, binjing around with the rules of elections, as you wish, without any political agreement, or even with openness to those who think otherwise, to those on the opposite side of politics. They can, they have two thirds, they will, I have no doubt that they will adopt this law. I am already saying that, of course, we will not support this. But this is no way to create free and fair elections, I must say, and therefore a legitimate government, indeed, will not be able to be created by them. I say this in a way that, although I am about to mention my specific professional criticisms, because, by the way, a very large part of the Secretary of State's comment contained technical proposals, because there is such a part of this bill, but since you manage the elections in this way, this is how you deal with the electoral rules and have done so in the last 12 years, there is no other way to interpret this particular bill, which is here than that it is a bill serving your interests, and DK is not assisting you. I'm sorry, but that's the thing. To give you specifics on professional issues. It is included in the bill, the current law provides for it, and this law also retains the number of days or the time it takes to verify the recommendations. By the way, the law leaves you three days to check. We think it's the 21st. In the first century, a lot of automated and mechanized methods are too long, which could be reduced. There are international examples that otherwise this could be resolved with appropriate guarantees, of course, but within less than three days. I suggest that it be considered that this could be reduced. The proposal then addresses the members of the National Election Committee in several respects. One of them is that from now on, you have to have legal qualifications for party delegates, so I should call you that. There are a number of arguments that it is not really the diploma that makes it possible for someone to be qualified for election rights or electoral proceedings, or that he could represent these types of cases there, even professionally. But there is a much greater problem with this part of the proposal, that the delegates of the parties that have drawn up the list would not have the right to vote either in the EP or in the parliamentary elections. So I can't appreciate this any other way, let's just look at the latter elections, there are many, let's say, opposition lists, or at least more of the opposition party list than of the ruling party, which I can appreciate as a step against opposition parties, and I can't appreciate this in any other way: there shouldn't be any voting rights for many opposition lists, because in the end, the decision of the NVB might go wrong. We think this is unprecedented, we think it is unheard of, and in the last thirty years it has never even occurred to us in relation to the NVB, even though there have really been regulatory changes here. Buying the electoral register is a seemingly less important point, but it is a point that affects the campaign of the parties. It is not the devil's idea that we are not tailoring it to the minimum wage, and the exact same amount for every constituency, but you are now saying that forints per voter, i.e. 3 forint per person on the list, we just don't see how these 3 forints came out anyway. So this could have been 5, could have been 15, could have been 1. I'm sure this thing was born somehow. The material does not contain any grips as to why it is 3 forints, nor in the general statement of reasons. And by the way, I would like to ask the Secretary of State that this obviously means a lot more administration, because as long as a candidate or his party had to pay 200 thousand forints for each piece in the last election period, it was an easy-to-manage, predictable, collectable amount. Now, there's gonna be a little bit more administration to keep track of how many thousands of people are in that published database, and that's how much it's gonna take. You said there was an unjustified difference between the two. I don't see the undue difference. It is in the proposal that, if the elections take place on one day, i.e. in Hungary, EP and municipal elections take place on one day, again, I say that another proposal discussed today was about this, but this amendment does not provide for it to be in line with the fact that the party that obtained the right of departure in the elections to the European Parliament and therefore delegates a ballot counter to a ballot counting committee will also count the votes generated on the same day at the same time in the municipal elections, although they participate as delegates of a party delegated to EP-logic, EP-elections. Or how does this work? Perhaps there will be two ballot counting committees, one of the delegates of the parties to the EP election, and there will be a committee counting municipal votes, which means there will be 22,000 ballot counters instead of 11,000? Or how do you imagine that? This stuff doesn't give you any grips. The vote on the letter was also mentioned by my fellow Member Hende. Yeah, we don't like letter voting. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: The ones across the border.]] Not because it's the hotbed of fraud, please, the letter vote. You can say that it was a provocation, I don't know what you're getting from, that provocation was a pile of burnt or half-burnt votes in Marosvásárhely, and I think that what really happened was there. We have no conflicting information, and you have not revealed it, my honourable fellow Member, so that I do not believe it. Again, this means that there is no control over who can vote in a letter. Anyone can vote in a letter with a small exaggeration, they do not filter out the dead, they do not filter out those who for some reason are no longer entitled to vote, and yes, we know I do not claim it, but civil society organisations that have examined and assessed it [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Who?]] Indeed, the vote on the letter makes it possible to vote for others. So you get my mother, and I'm gonna vote for her in the letter, I'm gonna put her in, and on her behalf, I'm gonna send her. It cannot be verified that those who otherwise registered and received the letter vote are voting. Yes, and that is what this supplementary package is called, which I have just learned from the Secretary of State, a supplementary package of letters, the inclusion of a supplementary package is also making this worse, because there is absolutely no guarantee that it cannot be voted twice or several times. He says his luggage is lost, and he's still sending them both in. We can't see in the system where the duplication of this is detected. It is not included in the proposal, but we are living with the suspicion lawsuit that there will be further proposals for amendments from my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP, for example, what is happening to the constituencys, and Fidesz plans to redefine them. We know from newspaper articles that such a thought exists on the pro-government side. They like to mention the disproportionateness of the county of Pest and its individual constituencies. It is not included in this proposal, but I am living with the suspicion suit that we may be discussing next week that it has already been tabled, that this is already being discussed in the current committee. This will only show, most recent data, I read this morning that, in the last 12 years, 1500 changes have been made to the electoral district boundaries, and 1500, obviously counting each settlement from here to there and there, all of which the opposition has not approved, voted for, and obviously served your political interests. I have no doubt that, like this bill, and if it were to come in and amend the drafts for the constituencies, that amendment would also be in your political interest, so once again we would not be going to free and fair elections, my honourable fellow Member. [[20.20]] I miss this proposal that there is nothing to say about the need to act against the fake parties or not to do so. In this election, there were candidates and parties on which the country-world found that everyone knew that the people of the country knew that they were fake parties. I'm not going to go that far to suspect the Fidest behind it, but I'm sure a lot of people have thought of that. The attempt by any regulatory means to make the election more serious and to filter out, say, fake candidates is not the germ of this proposal. I don't talk about voting, I don't talk about fictitious titles, and many of the hundreds of people, voters and many of the phenomena that we have here, which we experienced a few months ago in the election campaign or even on election day, the government doesn't make any suggestions about this. Obviously, it's not because it's not in your interest to change these chaotic phenomena, because it's in her interest to do what's right now. One word, like a hundred of my honourable fellow Members with Fidesz and KDNP, is a politically motivated amendment to the electoral law for the interests of Fidesz, even if it contains some proposals that seem professional, and therefore, of course, it cannot be a case that the Democratic Coalition will vote for this, we will not support it, and we will vote against it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-06-28-194	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2022-06-28-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, No wonder Ferenc Gyurcsány sent in his party director to explain defeat and certificate [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] He has a huge part as party leader in achieving a historic failure along with the opposition's leadership in this beautiful rainbow coalition. Don't be surprised that this is the case, in the last 12 years you have always blamed everyone for their election defeats in a row, that the sun was shining in their eyes, that the wind was blowing, that the track had dropped, that there were no clumps of grass, and that many things had happened, that you have never blamed yourselves for their electoral defeat, that you can't face the causes of your election defeat, which, by the way, László Mérő stated precisely in the particular interview that Vice-President Hende mentioned earlier in his speech as chief speaker. László Sebian-Petrovski began his speech in a normal country. We think Hungary is a normal country. We know what you think of our common country, we know how you look down on the Hungarians, but you say that this is not a normal country. We very much believe that Hungary is a normal country, and indeed the best place in the world. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Oh, my God!]] I challenge myself to speak of our country together in this way, even if you have feelings of anti-nationalism. He said he wasn't free to undemocratic this election, and he listed all sorts of adjectives. But if you had won, it would have been, wouldn't it, honourable Member? You believe that the free and democratic choice that you win, and everything else that you do not win, is not a free and non-democratic choice. Do we know who was the most vocal advocate in this? Péter Jakab, when the Szerencs interim election was lost, said that he would have won in a democratic system, although the Fidesz-KDNP candidate Zsófia Koncz received more than 50 percent, so he gained the voter's trust over an absolute majority. But you only like the choice you win, and you look down on everything else. I would particularly like to refer here to the outburst of László Sebian-Petrovszki against Hungarians across the border. The congressman asked how to know about the provocation near Târgu Mureş. Honourable Congressman, If someone looks at the picture that was published on the Internet, as party director, you've dealt with such issues in the election campaign, then it's clear from two things. One of the things is that, accidentally, from these packets of letters, all the identification papers were somehow removed and installed so that they wouldn't be able to identify them. Otherwise, every election envelope must contain the personal data of the Hungarian citizen who has cast his vote. One more thing to know is that all the votes have been cast on you. Honourable Congressman, We have reached 94 percent of the Hungarian communities across the border, and we are grateful to them for this, and we are trying to earn their trust, which is why we are thinking of the National Assembly, because Hungarian voters across the border have also contributed to the fact that the majority of Fidesz-KDNP can now govern again here and make important and forward-looking decisions for the Hungarian society and the Hungarian national community. But, honourable Member, if the ratio in the cross-border world is 94 percent to vote for Fidesz-KDNP and 2-3-4-5 percent to vote for you, then you know very well that there cannot be a package of letters in which only you have been voted. Ask László Mérő, he's a mathematician, I'm sure he'll be happy to explain to you how this works out. So you can see from a lot of things that this was a despicable provocation. And you know what the worst part of this provocation is that you have tried to influence your anti-Hungarian and anti-national emotions, so that you can get back on the cross-border Hungarians, and you can get back on the voting rights of Hungarians across the border, which you do not support. They openly admit that they do not support the citizenship of Hungarians across borders and do not support their right to vote, and you are disturbed by the fact that the whole nation is able to comment on the future of our common country, honourable Member. You have never concealed this, you voted against the Double Citizenship Act, Ferenc Gyurcsány voted against the Double Citizenship Act, Ágnes Vadai voted against it. Honourable Congressman, So don't tell me they're just saying no to the right to vote, because your party president, Ferenc Gyurcsány, voted no to citizenship, for example. I think about the parliamentary elections that took place on 3 April 2022, which were also said by the OSCE delegates, and many other foreign electoral observers, politicians and civil society organisations said that the election was free and democratic, honourable Member. Never so many electoral observers watched the Hungarian election with a árgus eye. And from here, I would like to thank the electoral committee and the electoral office staff and each voter in each polling district for showing that they have done all the work on a very important, decisive day, both before and after the count of votes, until the rise to legal force. I also thank you specifically for the current bill, which Mr Secretary of State has already mentioned, that at the inaugural session, the chairman of the Election Committee said in his report that they see points where they will propose amendments to the Parliament. This was just a month and a half ago, and I think that this is a quick and professional work that we are looking at here, and the Ministry of Justice has basically just put the proposals of the Election Committee in a codified text and submitted them to Parliament. Obviously, thank them, too, but I think that thanks are due to all the members of the Election Committee and the Election Office who have brought these amendments to us so that we can decide on them as best we can. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The election of 3 April 2022 has been lost and the Hungarian people are being blamed for it, and I think that this is wrong, and I think that we should move on. It is not my place to interfere with your self-reflection processes, and this will be discussed or discussed between you, although your manifestations show that the denial of reality is still very close to you. But I don't think it's right to criticize the Election Committee or the Election Office or the Hungarian electorate or the electoral system or everything else instead of themselves, to go beyond that, there will be elections, there will be elections, we will decide on a continuous basis, today was the general debate on the proposal to hold the elections to the European Parliament together with the municipal elections in the spring of 2024 and then there will be elections in 2026, and so on, in line with our democratic traditions in Hungary and according to the laws. I think it is important that, within the framework of this bill, whether we talk about the campaign period, whether we talk about the candidacy or the members delegated to the Election Committee, the amendments before us are forward-looking, solve problems that have been based on and have emerged recently from practical experience. Because these are not amendments from the air, honourable Members, but from real life, from the experience of the recent election, the Election Committee has been able to submit such amendments to Parliament and propose them to the Members of Parliament for adoption, because they come from practical experience. [[20.30]] I do not think we can be accused of this moment because you always like to accuse us of changing the rules of the game with this bill now, with two and a half months since the elections, honourable Member. Well, when's the next parliamentary election? Sometimes you have to change the electoral law too soon, and then you change it too late, it's wearing this hat, it doesn't have a cap, it doesn't have a cap. There is now a clear amendment here, and the next parliamentary election is due in four years, honourable Member, everyone can know precisely these rules either in relation to the drawing up of lists, the delegation or the referendum. I must say, as I said in the debate on the amendment of the basic law, that I believe that the parliamentary election and the holding of a referendum on the same day have been a positive experience. This has happened for the first time, and we must also draw the experience of the deadline and the experience of the implementation, as we are now preparing for this in relation to the constitutional amendment in relation to the elections to the European Parliament and the elections to the local government. I think that the referendum and the holding of parliamentary elections at the same time have increased participation, which strengthens democracy and strengthens legitimacy for both this government and, for example, the questions raised in the referendum. 3.6-3,7 million people voted in one direction. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: Invalid!]] In the last 32 years, so many people have never voted in one direction, not even for EU and NATO membership, my honourable fellow Member. This was the largest one-way support for referendums, and I also expect the amendment of the basic law to increase participation, for example, in elections to the European Parliament with a traditionally lower participation than in parliamentary elections, because of the fact that we are holding the election of the local government on the same day, thereby giving the seats of MEPs a higher legitimisation of the higher level of participation. I think it is good to have a higher participation in an election, it does not matter whether it is parliamentary, municipal or European parliamentary elections. It is also quite clear that the old liberal mantra has fallen, that high participation can only benefit you, and this myth has also been dealt with on the 3rd of April. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that they do not blame the sun for losing at the football game. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-28-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Éva Sebők, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group.
u2022-06-28-197	Thank you very much. At the time, when I joined politics two or three years ago, one of the main reasons was that in my own field, I had legislation of such dirty quality that it could not be worked on. Now we have another idea, and I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what happened, because the quality of this is again the ZS category. I'll give you an example of the problems with one paragraph. There's nothing political behind it except what's going to happen if they accept it like this. Article 3 There is a technical amendment in Section 5 of the Act, which is what the DK colleague may have mentioned as a professional modification. Basically, at present, it seems that the vote usually takes place on Sundays, the counting of votes takes place at night, Monday's rest day for the members of the ballot counting committee. This will now include an amendment, namely that the day following the vote will not be the day of rest, namely the day off, but the day after the count. We understand what the poet wanted here: the poet wanted that as soon as the letter votes and the votes cast at another place came in, the count of them would not take place on Sunday night, but sometime on Wednesdays and Thursdays, so they wouldn't make any use of Monday's rest day. It's perfectly okay, it's understandable, it's logical, it's eligible. Yes, but the fact that this amendment was written in an inaccurate and incorrect way leads to the fact that if the counting of votes from Sunday night to Monday dawn, it can be interpreted as meaning that the day of rest will be Tuesday, which doesn't make any sense at all, but at least dangerous in return. I'll tell you why it's dangerous: because I have a bus driver, an air traffic controller, I have a heavy machinery operator who's gonna take the count now whether he's delegated or elected, he's gonna work, he's gonna do the countdown till 3:00 a.m., 4:00 a.m., 5:00 a.m., he's gonna go home, and then when he gets his rest day on Tuesday, it means he can go to 8:00 a.m. and he can get on that kind of heavy plane or he can get in that bus to drive it. You should have thought about that. But still left with this paragraph, there are other problems there, because there are a lot of questions that can be answered now, but they are not answered. What do I give you as an example? [[Nacsa Lawrence and Csaba Hende are talking.]] For those people who are involved in the election itself, and I hope again that I do not disturb Mr. Nacha and his members on the ballot counting committee, the problem is still not solved that someone's natural working time falls on Sunday. We didn't answer that his employer would be cool then, he would let him go, he would change the working order, he would go on vacation, he would go unpaid, there was no answer to this question about how he could take part in voting on Sunday. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert and Nacsa Lőrinc are talking.]] Nor is there an answer to the question that if I were to speak to the Secretary of State, he would not want to talk now. [[Róbert Répássy: Speaking to the Parliament! Zoltán Vajda: Mr President! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-06-28-198	Go on, Congresswoman.
u2022-06-28-199	Okay, you know what? I don't want to go on. You will vote for this as it is, you will vote for the legislation, you will do it, and then you will do it the way you used to weld the absentee fee a year later, and now you are welding it. It's a dirty-quality proposal, you can't vote for it. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-200	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2022-06-28-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's a pleasure to spend the evening here with you. On my count, it's been 11 1/2 hours for Parliament. If I can tell you a little something like this, I'll tell you all about it. [[Eve Scars is leaving the Chamber. Mrs Lőrinc Nacsa: Congresswoman leaving the debate? The president's ringing the bell.]] I wasn't here for a few hours today. I was here at the meeting this morning, I was here a few hours in the morning, and then I followed the Parliament's meeting from a distance, and I came back to the Chamber perhaps an hour and a half ago, or I came back to the Chamber almost two hours ago. When I entered the Chamber, I sat here, and my colleague Peter Ungár turned back very kindly, greeted me very kindly, and asked why you were here. I misunderstood a little, I said I didn't know either, because I don't know exactly why we're here to pretend that we're arguing about a law. In the morning, he asked me what I was talking about, but I misunderstood a little bit, because I am actually a relatively fresh Member here, but for example, in this law, I am completely confronted with pretending that there is a rule of law. Let's consummate the rule of law together. In normal countries, where there is a normal rule of law, and I can see that the eyes of Congressman Nacsa are shiny, because at this moment he will want to identify himself with the nation and say that I am criticizing the country and saying bad things to the country; no, I am saying bad things to you, and the policy that you represent is literally breaking down the rule of law themselves. So I'm asking you, if I'm gonna get you to answer, don't hide me from criticizing the country. [[20.40]] I'm criticizing you with the rule of law. So, if it were a normal rule of law, I'm sure it would create such a law with the opposition in a series of negotiations between the governments at all times, and we would not pawn the rule of law here. But I'm a partner in this, and then let's puppet the rule of law together. I'll give you a summary of what I think the law is about, and then I'll make a few comments about the bill around two groups, because then let's pretend that's what this is about. What is the summary of this? I have not heard from the Secretary of State in the presentation, but I have found a final report on the OSCE in 2018, a specific sentence of which I would like to read. In Section 11 of page 30, it is worth considering the amendment of the legislation in order to allow multi-party participation in the NVB in the period between the announcement of new elections and the becoming NVB members of the delegated representatives of the parties registering the national list. For example, the amendments required in this respect are, in principle, included in the proposal to amend certain electoral laws and related laws. However, once again taking this puppet task seriously, I would add two categories of what I see in this law. I think, in addition to the fact that there are absolutely excellent technical amendments, I see two groups. On the one hand, there are things, important issues, with which this law remained indebted. I'd like to give you some examples of that right now. And the second group I see is, if I am in good faith, it is unjustified if I see reality, and it is deliberately unfair amendments that this law contains. I'll give you an example of that as well. So in these two bouquets, it is worth seeing what kind of comments we have. The first is what are the substantial amendments with which you remain in debt. First, let me indicate that an important deadline for the Constitutional Court expired on 31 December 19. The AB resolution of 8 October 2019 will not be read now, but I will also take a substantial sentence out of it, which is about the fact that the Constitutional Court drew the attention of the Parliament to the amendment by 31 December 2019. I didn't see anything here, even though it's an AB-marked deadline, which is over, so it's a type of one that, let's just say, is an important issue, and this bill remains indebted. I'll give you another one, or three others, because it's an important issue, and you're in debt. I will read three sentences out of the key recommendations of the OSCE closing report on 18 and see if this is included. One is point 2 of this OSCE report, which says that, in order to strengthen general trust, legislation could provide for public consultation on the identity of the candidates of the NVB. This is what the OSCE proposes for us in its recommendation for 2018. In September this year, the nine-year mandate of the NVB members elected by the National Assembly will expire, but I have found no rules on who and why our President Katalin Novak will recommend. He says the Act on Election Procedure is 20. §2 of the Act, on the proposal of the President of the Republic, seven members and three alternates of the NVB shall be elected by the National Assembly for nine years on the 90 days preceding the end of the term of office of the elected members of the previous NVB, and I shall no longer list the statutory terms. There is no regulation on whom and why it recommends this, even though the OSCE is talking about the need for a public consultation. Why do I say that? 'Cause we've had a lot of bad experience with this. The Hungarian people already have bad experience of telling Mr Nacsa that I can refer to Hungarian people. For example, the Hungarian people had the experience that, say, with András Patyi, the rules of conflict of interest could have been extended, because the absurd situation with Mr Patyi was that a state university had its rector, and then the president of the State Reform Committee, and then it should be believed, on the basis of the Curia's decision, that he could now become extremely independent and impartial. For example, the Hungarian people were disturbed by this. The next thing I think it could be in this material, but it's not in it, again I refer to the OSCE report, its point 6, an enlarged sentence. Allow me to read it to you. In the interests of editorial diversity, consideration should be given to the guarantees of the effective independence of public service broadcasters, which includes an open and inclusive appointment practice for management and a transparent and sustainable funding system. I don't see anything about it that's going to establish that this law does. Hungarian people are disturbed by the fact that the Hungarian media is not independent, the Hungarian people are looking for the guarantee of the independence of the broadcasters. The following is still in the media, point 21 of the OSCE report, my last item that I would highlight from the fact that it could be in this law, but for some reason it has been omitted. Point 21 of the OSCE report contains the following sentence: Government advertising contracts should be concluded after a transparent procurement procedure, on the basis of a clear set of criteria, in such a way as not to impede fair competition and to ensure the control of an independent organisation. The government's information activities should strictly avoid any appearances that it seeks to influence elections. I would like to point out that nothing has happened in these cases since 2018, only because this is the date of the OSCE report. This proposal also does not contain any provisions that would substantially improve the biggest problem of the Hungarian electoral system, the government's media presence. So I've highlighted these three plus one subject that could be in this material, but it's not. Now allow me to highlight a few points, if I look at the clock, only three of the points in which, if we say it in good faith, it is unjustified, and if we are to indicate reality, there are deliberately unfair proposals for amendments. It is worth looking at a detailed justification for this law. Article 4 The reasons set out in paragraph 1 shall include the following: I'll read it literally. In the election of Members of Parliament and in the right to a list of Members of the European Parliament, the mandate of nominating organisations remains. In this respect, however, the proposal differentiates between the members entrusted. The highlight is now from me: there is no qualification requirement for the NVB members delegated under the law of the list, as for the parties who have the most significant social support, who form a political group in the Parliament on the basis of the election result. Therefore, their role in the committee will also be different. They shall have the right to take part in the meetings of the NVB during their term of office, and shall therefore not have the right to vote, nor shall they be taken into account for the purposes of the quorum, nor shall they be entitled to a fee. I could keep going, but I don't want to. This is part of the justification for your proposal. On this basis, I can't translate it any other way than that parties that make up a list without a faction can actually send such biodecorate members to sit through, otherwise, for free, to fine the party that delegated them. I think the government is clearly terrified of the possibility of once again taking up the majority of opposition delegates in the electoral committee called national, which is what they intend to do to prevent this from happening in theory. This is clearly contrary to the requirement of equality in elections. This is the case even if it is not entirely unjustified to control the membership of the NVB, but this would require a comprehensive amendment that would address, for example, the problem that I said earlier, who are proposed by the President of the Republic to be a member of the NVB. I think it is also important to point out that the above provision will not apply to NCA delegates with a fraction due to changes in the rules in force, because their mandate will be extended, i.e. that it does not expire more precisely by setting the election, and therefore they will not need to be re-delegated and their voting rights will remain. Despite this, the government parties will achieve the goal, because, let me say, the non-friendly opposition majority cannot be formed in the board during the elections. The second one is, let's just say that either it's a mistake or it's deliberately unfair, in fact, that's what 31 is. In its justification for §8, I see that the NVI will no longer be subject to an optional control obligation. In other words, no warranty rules will rule out that ad absurdum, let's say, if a ten-year-old person's data is misappropriated, is to cast a valid vote abroad, which, of course, will not be revealed, and which will be mailed or taken to an election office near the border. By the way, we already have a statement from the Mansion as to what the problem is here. [[20.50]] And finally, let me say one more thing because I also think it is worth pointing out that, with this proposal, you also have the salary of the President of the NTI, well, I would like to raise it very carefully. President Attila Nagy is currently receiving HUF 1.9 million a month, and you are planning to raise this by 73 percent, which means a salary increase of HUF 1.4 million, thus accounting for a gross HUF 3 million of HUF 290 thousand. As the Members of Parliament will be bound to their fees, the allowance of the President of the NVI will, of course, increase year after year. And I think it is worth reminding everyone that you have already raised the salary of the NTI President in January 2020, by the way, until then, you have paid 997 thousand, and this has been increased by a loose one million to HUF 1.9 million a month. Finally, I would just like to say to Mr. Nacsa, because it is always a pleasure to listen to you, although I see it has been quite a long day, because in the morning he has been burning himself horribly on TV, but, well, his soul on it, he must have been sleepy, and now he is sleepy, or perhaps vice versa, let me tell you that when you say that the elections are clear,... that we just think that it is the right choice if our side has won, that I remember a bridge booking in 2002 that was preceded by, say, not by your party, but by the youth organization of Fidesz, because it was only the correct count that they recalculate, and then they closed down a bridge and demanded what they should be. So I think that the reason why we have to be more careful here is because you have already done this once in 2002, and my beloved city, its bridges or the bridge, it is certainly wrong. Anyway, so we pawned that there was a rule of law, because I made suggestions and thought about a substance that shouldn't have been discussed here at first, because it could be a joint proposal, because that's how it happens in normal law states, but it's okay, we puppeted together with love. If it weren't for what I said, it is quite obvious that our faction will not support this vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for letting me speak. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-28-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr István Szabadi, the lead speaker of the group of our countries. [[István Szabadi: Mr President, may I go to the platform?]] Of course. You have the floor, Congressman Szabadi.
u2022-06-28-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, According to the proposal for amendment 11 to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the general election of local government representatives and mayors is planned to be held every five years at the same time as the election of MEPs. The following municipal elections in 2024 would therefore take place between April and July instead of October, so it would be four and a half years since the local elections in 2019. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is not it! Dr. Robert Répássy: This is another one! Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not the law!]] Good. According to the explanatory statement, the joint holding of elections is significant [[The president's ringing the bell.]] would save more than HUF 10 billion. The Hungarian Movement agrees that the two elections should be held at the same time because of economic considerations, and we absolutely agree with that. However, an interesting question arises as to why Fidesz, which has been governing by a two-thirds majority since 2010, did not make this proposal earlier. Why was the European Parliament and municipal elections in 2019 not held at the same time? In our view, the budget still needed to cut costs. The five-year interval between municipal elections was introduced by the Fundamental Law, but the related detailed rules were contained in a separate document which entered into force on 31 December 2011 under the name of transitional provisions. [[Lőrinc Nacsa consults with Dr. Répássy Robert.]] Yes, my fellow Members, the transitional provisions already contained the rule that municipal elections should take place on the same day as elections to the European Parliament. This is just a preliminary transfer of information to lead up to the current amendment, just to put things into place, and thank you very much. The transitional provisions also mentioned at the time that the interval between October 2014 and the next municipal elections of 19 years could be less than five years. I'll tell you why that matters. We also disagree with the planned addition of the closing and mixed provisions of the Fundamental Law to the fact that, after the municipal elections in April-July 2024, the mandate of the incumbent bodies of representatives and mayors would cease until 1 October. If Fidesz keeps up this public anomaly, it's a huge mistake. In our view, this uneven situation would lead to a parallel administration of local public affairs and would give the replaced mayor and the body of representatives an opportunity to make decisions serving their private interests on every single basis in six months, perhaps empty the budget, abuse their powers, and the newly elected officials will have to look at it quietly, because they will not have any rights until they take office. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to and draw attention to the fact that if, in this case, it can be modified and it is appropriate to say that, instead of five years, the four and a half years would be the cycle time, then this anomaly cannot occur. On the other hand, I do not know if we can agree on this, or if you have thought about it, because the voters do not vote in the spring so that the deposed mayor and body of representatives will manage their settlement until October and perhaps take revenge on those who openly opposed them. In addition, it is noted that the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure The proposed amendment to the Act would make it clear that the Hungarian electoral committees are also competent to investigate and assess possible violations in the territory of Hungary. [[Lőrinc Nacsa to Dr. Robert Répássy: Now!]] According to the current legislation, the assessment of violations of the Hungarian elections committed abroad is currently not covered by the jurisdiction of the Hungarian electoral bodies, which was highlighted by the decisions taken by the Curia in relation to the parliamentary elections in April. The Mi Hazank Movement agrees with the extension of Hungarian jurisdiction in order to investigate electoral violations committed abroad, but also in this case it objects to the fact that the institution of the letter voting was already included in the electoral procedure law at the time of its entry into force, on 3 May 2013. We were also directly involved in the cross-border violation of electoral rights during the parliamentary elections in April, because our seventh mandate was taken from us on the basis of only a few votes, given the fact that a bag of half-destroyed ballot papers were found in Târgu Mures, which clearly included votes for our country, and in South-Hungarian activists of the Hungarian Federation of Vojvodina with close relations with Fidesz delivered the ballot papers of those with voting rights at the elections without receipt. Thus, the situation may have occurred, that practically the circle of friends associated with the members of our country was more populous than the number of votes received from beyond the border. The proposal to amend the electoral procedure law lacks the inclusion of guarantee rules to enable the National Election Office to fulfil its obligation to disclose the data on which the election result is based in accordance with the principles of good faith and proper law enforcement and publicity of the electoral procedure. The data at the disposal of the electoral bodies are public, so the National Election Office must not only ensure the publication of the results-setting protocols, but also of all available data, at least with daily updates. The Hungarian Movement has submitted a request for judicial review to the National Election Committee against the decision establishing the national list results of the election, in which we asked for the recounting of the letter votes, because part of the votes thus received were damaged, as the post office had unchecked them. The National Election Office has prevented the knowledge of daily minutes and declarations recorded during the verification of letter votes. [[21.00]] The infringement led to the fact that, in the absence of data, our delegate to the National Election Committee could not, without doubt, decide whether the letter votes received in the damaged envelope, repacked by the post office, were valid. Both the National Election Commission and the Curia rejected our request. Another observation is that the 1992 LXVI on the register of citizens' personal data and addresses. The amendment of Law 2022 in force from 1 January 2022 changed the concept of residence. According to this, as of 2022, the declared place of residence will only function on a notification label, and in addition to living there, there is only one presumption, and it does not really have to be the address of the person who establishes the place of residence. On the basis of the legislative amendment that came into force before the parliamentary elections in April, it was possible to vote with a fictitious address, which opened the door to voting tourism. This was dangerous because in recent years, several elections have been voted by people who have only created an address without real residence in order to have the right to vote in that election. In addition to the electoral laws, the Hungarian Movement also objects to the fact that the principles of the electoral procedure, such as the preservation of the purity of elections and equal opportunities between candidates and nominating organisations, were not respected here during the parliamentary elections in April, but we could even mention the previous elections. In addition to the fact that the global technologists are earning a multiple of the Hungarian public finances every year, after which no forint tax is paid in Hungary, the results of the elections are also clearly influenced. For example, Facebook deleted the page of President László Toroczkai a week before the elections to the European Parliament, and the party side one week before the legislative elections in 2022, thereby interfering with the elections. But it wasn't just Facebook against us, it was also the government's media empire. The Mediaworks distribution company MediaLOG did not deliver our newspaper, and the subcontractors were also threatened not to work for us, but the Hungarian Post could not carry out our political publication, obviously we know for what reason. Our website was cyber-attacked in the days before the election so we couldn't mobilize. We have not been able to reach voters fully with printed newspapers, and in the last two years, for two years! Mr. President wasn't seen in public television. There is even a trade channel, not even its name, because it is not worth it, which has not once spoken before the elections, and has not shown the movement of our country. This suggests that the main focus is not on the fact that the 2024 municipal elections are held in October or spring with the elections to the European Parliament, but on what the governing party does not want to change at all, namely to ensure real equal opportunities in elections. Finally, we have a comment on a technical amendment or two. The fact that the elected or appointed member of the National Election Committee can only be a member of a law university degree, so he is a lawyer, is not considered appropriate. This has not been the case before, and we believe that this has not been a disadvantage of the current elections. Therefore, we cannot accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-28-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Croatian ethnic advocate József Szolga, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2022-06-28-205	Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani Gospodine Državni Tajniče! The Government of Hungary has submitted T/367 on the amendment of certain electoral laws and related laws. The Commission of Hungarian Nationalities initiated the discussion of the draft as a nationality item following its referral. At the meeting of our Committee on 27 June 2022, the House Rules of Decision 32 § 2 of the Act decided to hold a detailed debate on the whole of the bill, and Article 36 of the House Rule of Decision. Paragraph 5 of this Article states that he has established his position as a committee related to the debate, to which he has asked to be presented. Dear Parliament, The proposed T/367. The first of the legislative amendments to bill XXXVI of 2013 concerning the electoral procedure concerns nationalities. Law hereinafter referred to as "Ve. I would like to comment on the proposed stages of the change. Our committee agrees with the Ve. broadening and clarifying its territorial scope, giving the opportunity to investigate and assess infringements outside Hungary in all electoral procedures. Article 3 §2 of the Act provides consistency with the provisions on the regulation of employment by naming the absence fee payable to the committee member in the elections instead of the average wage. The amendment fundamentally alters the composition of the National Election Committee and the eligibility of its members. The national minority self-government, as the nominating organisation setting up a national list at the parliamentary elections, retains the right of delegation. It is true that the delegate does not have to have a university degree, but therefore does not have the right to vote, does not have to be taken into account for the quorum and is not entitled to a fee. Ve in force until its entry into force. 45. Pursuant to paragraph 5 of Article 5 of the National Election Committee, the Member of the National Election Committee appointed by the national minority self-government shall have the right to vote only in matters relating to national minorities, and may take part in the meeting of the National Election Committee with the right of consultation in other matters. We believe that the new provisions will result in a narrowing of the law for our nominating organisations. We are proposing to reconsider these provisions in the light of national interests. The Ve. in particular, in the chapter of the election of the representatives of the minority self-government, the re-regulation of the point of the costs of the electoral procedure links the holding of interim elections to budgetary conditions. On the basis of the provision, the local government will have to advance the election office's interim election costs from its own budget if the local government body has been dissolved or has declared its dissolution. We agree that, in view of the need for responsible and efficient management of public funds, the costs of the interim elections for these reasons should be borne by the local minority self-government, but we know that the national authorities do not have sufficient resources to carry out the interim elections. In almost all cases, the withdrawal of the State budget under the draft will result in the end of the national government. We do not believe that the right to self-government must necessarily be overwritten by fiscal considerations. That is why we also recommend rethinking this phase. We also initiate the central budget to cover the holding of other interim elections governed by the law, so if the number of representatives falls below the number required, the general election will fail if the municipality has not been formed after the general election. The Ve. is highlighted in the 307/D. § 2 of the Act, on the basis of which the Election Committee no longer has to verify the statutes of the minority association in relation to whether it qualifies as a minority organisation in relation to the minority municipal elections. In our view, in the electoral procedure, when deciding on the registration of the nominating organisation, the planned new regulation will lead to problems, for which the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities will have to deal with. Act No...., hereinafter referred to as "the Nyjtv." I would like to address more specifically the provisions of the amendment. In addition to what has already been said, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities will put Ve on the agenda in order to avoid any problems encountered in the legislative elections in 2022. initiates its procedural provisions on nationalities and the development of a textual proposal, inter alia, by harmonising the dates of registration of the register, taking into account the criteria of the roll-list unsubscribement procedure, specifying the campaign period. [[21.10]] Dear Secretary of State, The following is Njtv, as defined in point 2 of the bill. I would like to refer to its proposed amendments and its effects on nationality. 38 of the draft. According to the justification for §2 of the Act, the amendment will be made at the national minority municipal elections in order to simplify the registration procedure of the national minority organisation. CLXXXIV of 2011 on the judicial register of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. Law 95. § a -e) must state that the form of the association is a nationality association, i.e. the organisation exhausts Njtv. 2. Article 15, I quote: under its statutes, an association which carries out an activity directly related to the cultural autonomy of nationality. The question arises whether, in the electoral procedure, the legal representation of the nationality association in the register as a form creates a nominating organisation's entitlement, or the wordings adopted by a court, as described in the statutes, which fulfil the conditions applicable to the minority association. Furthermore, the question to be answered is whether the three-year duration of the register should be calculated after the entry into force of this Act or whether the eligibility of the nominating organisation should be determined in accordance with the rules currently in force for the national minority elections in 2024. The proposal before us is 39-40. The amendments to §2 of the Act create coherence between the Ve. the sections which lay down the new procedural rules to be followed in the event of self-disbanding of the bodies of the national self-government, which have already been presented in relation to point 1. That's Njtv. Some of its provisions which expire also ensure consistency with the foregoing provisions. That's Njtv. 149. There is no justification for the introduction of Article 4 of the Act, to which we would like to receive an answer. We also need to turn to Njtv. 75. § (1) according to which the mandate of the body of representatives and assembly of the minority self-government lasts until the next general election of the representatives of the minority self-government. At today's second item on the agenda, the speaker of the Committee on Nationalities indicated that Articles 1 and 2 of the basic amendment proposal state that the election should be held at the same time as the election of Members of the European Parliament in April, May, June or July of the fifth year following the previous general election of representatives of local governments and mayors, while the mandate of the members of the body of representatives and the mayor, as proposed, lasts until October of the election year. The two provisions provide for a different date for the expiry of the mandates of national and local authorities. On the basis of the information provided, local government officials and representatives of Hungarian ethnicities do not know the intention of the authors. It may be that minority self-governments have been left out in textual terms or that the aim of the newly formed minority authorities is to discuss the revision of administrative contracts with local bodies with a mandate and Njtv. 80. The Court of First Instance held that, in its judgment in Case C-302/03, the Court of Justice held that, in its judgment in Case C-78/03, the Court of Justice held that, in so far as the Court of Justice held that, in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice held that, in so far as the Court of Justice held that, in so far as the Court of Justice held that, in so far as the Court of Justice held that the Court of Justice held that the Court of Justice held that, in so far as the Court of In the light of the authorial response, we can only establish the position of our committee, but of course it is necessary to consult the representatives of national governments, especially the Association of National National Governments. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to refer here to the fact that, when it came to the amendment of the Fundamental Law, it mentioned the arrangement in Croatia, indeed, in the course of our 800-year-old life together in the Persian Union, the counties are now called "Jupany" and the leaders are at the forefront, but they are not government-appointed leaders, but chose in a two-round election system, as the presidential function in Hungary, it is true that the general assembly chooses them here. It's just information. Returning to the draft law: in addition, our committee will certainly support the amendment of Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code in order to enable all workers to exercise their right to vote in all elections in order to enforce their rights of nationality and to strengthen their self-government. From a ethnic point of view, we consider it appropriate to make the election of Members of Parliament transparent the campaign costs of the 2013 LXXXVII. Act, hereinafter referred to as "Kktv." the 4th in front of us. Paragraph 3 shall be repealed. We also believe that it is sufficient for the National Election Committee to fix the number of voters in the central register as voters of nationality in a decision setting out the amount of the budget support for national minority self-governments who have drawn up the list. Kktv indicated in the submission. We do not know the textual content of Annex 1 to the new Act, as it is not available on the official website of the National Assembly. However, from the grounds of the bill it can be concluded that the number of voters of a national minority without a final national list should not be taken into account in the calculation of the budget support to national minority authorities which have drawn up the list. As we know, the Gypsy community in Hungary has failed to establish a list this year, and the registered voters over 60,000 have not been taken into account in the distribution of campaign funds anyway. We think it's the right thing to do. Of course, our committee will continue to maintain its position that, as a nominating organisation for national minority self-governments, the period for so-called voter registration and the time available for political campaigning should be divided. Unlike party lists, only those registered in the register as national voters can vote on the national minority list. The nationality nominating organisation clearly aims to reach as many citizens as possible with nationality ties to register in the register by the beginning of the official campaign period. There is a need to change campaign funding in this area. Dear House, The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities supports T/367 in the light of the foregoing. However, after the general debate, it will formulate its intention to amend. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-28-206	Thank you very much for the speech by Mr Szolga József, Croatian ethnic advocate. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see a candidate on the screen, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Róbert Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2022-06-28-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I probably won't be able to answer everything right now during this meeting. I would like to point out in advance that I will respond in writing to the detailed points raised by Mr József Szolga. Not that there is such an obligation, but I think that you have made quite a series of criticisms. But let us go back to the beginning of the proposal on how this proposal was made. I mentioned during the exposé that the president of the National Election Office had already announced at the Parliament's inaugural meeting that he would publish his proposals. This is available on the National Election Office website, the government has submitted this proposal without any substantial change. So this proposal has been known for quite a long time on the National Election Office website. [[21.20]] What I would like to talk about is that it is, of course, difficult to argue that I assume that whatever I say, opposition parties will not vote in favour of this proposal. So, as Zoltán Vajda just said, let's pretend that this is a serious debate, and I'm going to pretend that I'm going to answer to you, maybe convince you, and then vote for the bill, in case you're as interested in this game as you suggested. So I'm trying to convince you. For example, the issue of whether the constituencies have been amended many times, I believe that this was raised by Mr Sebian-Petrovsk. It is not so, Mr President, because the electoral districts have been amended, and within the constituency it has not affected the number of voters, the electoral districts have been amended, and the citizens belonging to the electoral districts have been set up differently. So this does not have anything to do with the election results in a constituency. The other is the suggestion of Mr Sebian-Petrovsk that this is a politically biased proposal or something like that, but he did not point out, by the way, only one element, one detail, to whom it is politically favourable and to whom it is not favourable. So it would have been good if you had justified your political bias in favour of the ruling parties. There is only one such thing that we have heard from you, or you have raised it, but it was actually explained by Zoltán Vajda, regarding the composition of the National Election Committee. But, Congressmen, why would it be only fair for opposition parties to be majority in the National Election Committee? You explained that if you had the right to vote, you could come up with the fact that the opposition majority votes against the ruling parties. But why is that fair? What standard is that? What dictates that opposition parties should take the majority? Therefore, the maximum possible way to achieve this is to be a committee of parities, but this proposal does not state that. It states that the elected party representatives, party delegates, either pro-government or opposition or non-members of Parliament, who do not have the right to vote, but have the right to consult. But this solution is as fair as the solution as, let's say, a committee like this would be even. I note that the parities cannot be established, because we do not know in advance who will be running for election, so this committee can never be even, it would always benefit someone. So I do think that this should be considered not from the point of view of fairness, but from the point of view of functioning, how many members with voting rights this committee operates effectively and in accordance with the rules of democratic choice. As far as legal qualifications are concerned, I would once again refer back to the proposal made by the President of the National Election Office, and they are obviously based on the experience that there is room for redress against the election committee's decisions, and there is room for a judicial journey. Therefore, the idea that lawyers should sit on this committee is not necessarily wrong. I think that every party in Parliament who makes a list is able to delegate a legal delegate, so that is not such a burden for a party as to become a lawyer is a member who will participate in the committee. So I think that here, in relation to the Election Committee, at least I have not been convinced why these rules would be biased in favour of the ruling parties. But the same is true of all other proposals, so the rules on letter voting, the package of letters have been raised. I'm sorry, but I didn't hear any arguments that would have shown that there was some sort of proposal here that would benefit the ruling parties. I didn't hear any arguments like that. I heard as a general criticism, or as a general opinion, that this electoral system was designed to benefit the parties of government. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: That's right. Zoltán Vajda intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Look, Congressman, I have listened a lot to opposition experts, electoral experts, lawyers and even politicians who have said that the government can be defeated in this electoral system, or that government parties can be defeated. You dreamed that you could get a two-thirds majority. Or when it was discovered that they could not obtain a two-thirds majority, they dreamed of how they would amend a Constitution by a half majority. So, look, this is a debate that you shouldn't agree with, who really benefits from the electoral system here, because as long as they seemed to have the chance to defeat the ruling parties in such an election, they didn't have any criticism of the electoral system itself that they couldn't defeat the ruling parties in this system. So you're really right about Lőrinc Nacsa when you said that the choice that you're going to win this election is fair to you. In the meantime, it did not occur to me, I might say, to the very night of the election, until the closing of the urn, that this would be an unfair election. Of course, when it came to the fact that the Fidesz-KDNP party alliance won in a large proportion, all kinds of unfair arguments have been found. The next problem we need to talk about here, I don't think I can convince DK not to call the government illegal, but it's a logical loophole. So if the mandate of the Members of Parliament is considered to be legal, then the legally elected Members of Parliament choose a legitimate government, do they not? So, if you consider your own mandate to be legitimate, you have to accept that Parliament's decisions are legal. This does not require a lawyer, a simple, everyday logic, that a person who considers his own mandate and the mandate of pro-government representatives to be equally legitimate on the basis of which he claims that the government he has elected is not legal. But I'm telling you, I'm not gonna be able to convince you that this is probably a well-planned political campaign, but here, in this debate, it turns out that legality and political considerations are always confused. When this proposal was tabled by a professional body, more precisely, by a professional agency, it had no political ulterior motive, which the Ministry of Justice suggested to the Government without change. We will, of course, check the points that are considered professionally seriously. This is also true of the rapporteur's proposal, but it is also true, of course, of the Member's proposals, who are a little offended, but still, we will read your comments on the day off from the record, and I believe that we will give a reassuring answer. I would also like to say that, if I have seen it correctly, amendments can be tabled by Thursday afternoon, so I would ask that you present your amendments then, and then we can discuss each amendment in more detail. Once again, I would like to ask you to consider that this bill contains proposals of a basic technical nature, which improve the working rules and the electoral system and better manage them. I'm asking you to vote for Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-28-208	Thank you very much for the final speech by Róbert Répássy. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting tomorrow at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, good night.
