u2022-10-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 5th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be here to help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Today from 12:35 a.m. to 14:05 a.m. to 5 p.m. to 14:05 p.m. to 5 p.m. to the hour of immediate questions and answers, then to the speeches after the agenda, and then to the end of the meeting of the Parliament with an oath. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-10-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You declare war on the education system, wage war on the pedagogical society. Technically, that means you're at war with your own nation. In this war, they use everything they can: intimidation, unjust muddying of teachers and financial inability. Yes, my fellow Members, today's Hungarian government is using the most powerful weapon at its disposal: money. They are trying to make it completely impossible, to intimidate teachers working in Hungary, so that their salary, their livelihood, is still desperately weak. And not to say I'm talking in the air, just some of the last few weeks. At the Batthyány Lajos Elementary School in District I, five teachers' salaries were reduced due to a shortage of numbers. Luckily, you've had 120 parents stand firm and successful, and you've been forced to back down here. But we also see and meet day after day with a mass of warning and sending letters to teachers, teachers who dare to stand up for a more functional, better education system, who dare to raise their voice that their pay is humiliatingly low. An example enough is the Kölcsey High School, where five teachers were terminated from employment or the Karinthy High School, where a whole package of warnings and perhaps reprimands were posted to teachers. But the line doesn't stop here. Today, you called a police officer to the parents because they wanted to hand over a petition to the school district. So today we are talking about the fact that the representatives of the Hungarian government are calling a police officer on the protesting parents because they want to hand over a petition. And we can also see clearly that they cannot guarantee the basic minimum requirements in education. There is also a specific example of this. In Gödöllő, the Turkish Ignác High School has untenable conditions that make educational activity completely impossible. The clear losers of your war are the shared future of students and all of us, the future competitiveness of the country, the future competitiveness and market position of young people living here. Your fight is inhuman, illegal, and utterly harmful. It is shocking to see that you see an enemy in the teacher because he says that I cannot make a living from 200 to 300 thousand forints, so that this year inflation is higher than 20 per cent, food inflation is more than 30 per cent, and it looks like inflation is expected to be significantly above 10 per cent again next year. Your answer is that we will give you a 10% wage increase from January, which means that not only this year the teachers were taken from their real wages, but they also want to take away from their real wages for teachers next year, even though we know exactly how to find a quick, efficient and clear solution to the situation of teachers' salaries. Today, the salary of teachers is calculated from the projection fund calculated on the basis of the 2014 minimum wage. All you have to do, my honourable members of the Government, is that the project fund is not tied to the minimum wage of HUF 100,500, but, for example, the current minimum wage. In this case, the salary of teachers could be two and a half times as much as it is now from tomorrow, and let us be honest, the pay of teachers will pay many times not only for teachers, but also for the budget, for the Hungarian economy, for the future of all of us. I call on you to stop this inhumane war and finally resolve it, because the budget has its source. I cannot stress that where there is money to buy a mobile company for absolutely no reason, there must be money and there must be money to settle teachers' wages. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of LMP, Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-10-10-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Your interest in the issue of public education is new, and you have not spoken on such matters here in Parliament, although, I believe, you have been here for at least the second term. Therefore, allow me to draw your attention to a few things, for since you did not deal with this issue, you may not have known him from the past period. When we voted on next year's budget this year, one of the most important issues was to increase educational resources, thus increasing the funding for education by HUF 86 billion next year. And we're gonna spend most of that on a teacher's wage increase. You did not support this then with your vote. I don't know, they considered that this part might have been worth supporting, but they didn't support next year's budget with their vote, so they didn't support this HUF 86 billion surplus. So the government has already decided, and here in Parliament, we have voted in favour of its funding to increase teachers' wages in four months' time. We have also decided before that this wage increase obviously has to be two figures. The current issue, which is ahead of us, is that the wages of teachers will rise by 10 percent next year, with which they will rise again this year, and with which we plan to continue to rise after next year, or there will be changes, especially external changes, which will allow for higher levels of wage increases to be made. Before I mention this, I think that you, if you're a good person, would agree with the claim that it is wrong to have teachers pay the price of an economic difficulty, it is not right to have problems in a country, to reduce the wages of teachers. [[11.10]] Do you agree, Congressman, that it is wrong to reduce the wages of teachers when there is an economic difficulty in a country? He's looking at me with a glass eye, so he's not answering. [[Szabó Timea: Why, can you answer? Interviews from the lines of LMP and Dialogue. The president's ringing the bell.]] You are doing this because you know very well that you, on the other hand, started on a list with politicians who put the logos of parties in your constituency next to your name, who have certainly reduced the salary of teachers when they were unable to deal with the economic difficulties of the country. Now there are particularly economic difficulties all over the world, and Europe, but this government does not choose the path, nor did it even occur to us to take the path that your allies practiced in this country, when a month's salary was taken from teachers around 2008. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] This is a debate about the source and scale of the teacher's wage increase. If, therefore, the question of who is the ally of teachers and who has done bad things to them in the last thirty years, then you are those sitting on that side, who have taken us from teachers, and we are those who, when we started our government after 2010, were the first social group to whom we were able to provide a higher wage increase of 50 percent. The other question is that at times you will try to act out loud as if you were supporting teachers, only then, honourable Member, it would have been good if you had also supported 86 billion forints next year, and it would have been good not to link your political future with those whose political past was rather rugged, and to the teachers in particular, honourable Member. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] If the war ends as soon as possible, the sanctions will end, and everything will go back to normal, and Hungary will be able to return to that momentum again, as after the coronal virus epidemic, when we have had a 7.1 percent record high economic growth, higher than in the last thirty years... [[Antal Csárdi: What does that have to do with anything?!]] You're asking me, what's that got to do with it? That is why, honourable Member, I would be happy to explain. [[Intercom from LMP and Dialogue.]] I'm happy to explain. Because the budget has revenues, if the economy grows, it has more revenue and can increase more for teachers. [[Antal Csárdi: Ten years of economic activity! Szabó Timea: It grew for ten years, and... the president bells.]] Then you will come, Madam honourable Member, and we will listen to you. If, therefore, the budget has more revenue, it must be able to spend more on raising the wages of teachers. Therefore, the wage increase programme started in 2013, because in 2010-11-12 there was no surplus that could have been taken away, then there was the scrapping of left-wing governance in this country, but once there was additional income, because the economy started to grow, we first tried to give the teachers an extra wage increase. So if the war is over sooner, if the sanctions are over, economic growth in Hungary can be increased again, and we will have greater resources to increase the wages of teachers to a greater extent. In addition, if you finally stop your activities of going to Brussels, you will be able to conduct your own country. [[Antal Csárdi: I have never been to Brussels! Intercoms from the Dialogue, the LMP, the Momentum.]] to delay and prevent Hungary's access to its own resources, and not to prevent us from using it to raise the wages of teachers, for example. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] then that amount could be higher. You should take the lead on this, Mr. Congressman. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-4	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mi Hazank Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Madam Vice President.
u2022-10-10-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Third Congress of the Hungarian Movement adopted a manifesto entitled Self-determination, security and national security, because these are the cornerstones that we consider to be extremely important on the way out of the crisis. Self-determination refers primarily to the creation of our food self-determination, so the MiHazan Movement is putting on its flag that agriculture must be strengthened. In this, the government should support family economies instead of oligarchs, and the aim should not be to increase foreign capital flows, because Viktor Orbán, when he published that list, the ten-point list of how he sees the cornerstones of exiting the crisis, the self-determination was not included in this, whereas the government wants to increase foreign capital flows. Viktor Orbán sets this goal on his flag in a situation where car manufacturers in Hungary and multinational trade chains carry out as much money from Hungary each year as the government has planned for the entire Rezségvédelmi Fund. This is an economic misconception, but instead we should levy a tax on the oligarchs and a digital tax on the giant tech companies. With regard to the security of life, the VAT on food prices should be released, as has already been demanded by the Hungarian Movement here in this House several times by the government and the abolition of the system usage fee on our flag, but the release of food prices would not be so high if the government moved towards economic and agricultural self-determination, or moved away in the last 12 years, for which they had the opportunity, but they missed it. Instead of withdrawing support from the multinationals, we see heartbreaking stories from week to week when people and families are being evicted from their homes. They couldn't keep that promise either. You have won several elections in Hungary by leaving no one on the side of the road and helping foreign exchange creditors. Now we see that they have failed to keep that promise. With regard to national defence, we must highlight the protection of Hungary's borders, which the Prime Minister has put on his flag in words, but the reality is that in Hungary, the field guards in the Great Plains, who risk their own physical integrity, defend Hungary's borders from migrant horses, are condemned by the Hungarian court on the basis of the notification of the TSAZ, who condemns the detention of migrants until the arrival of the police. It is shocking, it is outrageous that family fathers who, by the way, are raising ten children are fined by the Hungarian court on the basis of the announcement of the anti-national TSAC, because dozens of migrants are being detained in corn. They will not use any force against them, they will simply wait for the police to arrive, and otherwise they will have to see that these migrants who have illegally invaded Hungary are then, if there are enough police officers and they can actually take action, escort them back to the other side of the border, so that they can try to break into Hungary again the next day. We are talking about people who, leaving their families behind at night, often act against a hundred migrants, and guard Hungary's border, have a police exam, and, in accordance with their oath, in an area that is their responsibility, seek to protect Hungary and the Hungarian nation. Government speeches on the protection of national culture are just similar lies, as rural and Budapest cultural houses, theatres, community squares, swimming pools, sports facilities are closed down because they cannot farm the rent, and the government does not provide any support or help to people who would use these facilities on the one hand and work there on the other. They do not even do, for example, in the field of culture, that they create funds and programs similar to the Covid period for artists, and now they do not provide any help at all. Self-determination, life security, national defense, this is the way out of our country movement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country's movement.]]
u2022-10-10-6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas responds. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your speech before the agenda has brought up quite a wide range of issues, so this is the answer to which, in that time, it is extremely difficult, but I will try. First of all, you asked questions and thoughts about food prices. I would like to say to you here that these food prices, which have developed in Hungary over the last few months, have largely been the result of sanctions in Brussels affecting energy. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Which is clearly the result of the war. In Hungary, these food prices also contain a significant share of energy and energy consumption, and these energy prices have significantly shifted to consumer prices. [[11.20]] At the same time, we must also say that there is a century of drought in Hungary, which, unfortunately, continues to this day. Fortunately, we cannot say that we lack any food, because we have a safe food reserve in the country, we have produced the basic foods that we need, and there cannot be any particular disruption. At the same time, the Government of Hungary, in order to support the population, and in this situation the less impact of war and sanctions policies, has brought the most important food price-stops for certain foods, which will greatly help the survival of families and the management of families. Here I mention that since mid-October last year, the prices of crystal sugar, wheat fine meal, sunflower-eating oil, pork legs, chicken breasts, chicken butt-back and 2.8 percent UHT cow milk have been fixed. These articles cover all of our most basic food needs, and there is the amount of food needed for safe care and safe food. The goods you mentioned and I spoke about clearly reflect the performance of Hungarian farmers, the result of Hungarian farmers. He also had another suggestion, which, I think, was related to the identity and work of the party president, and this is the field guard service in Diggedhal. I would like to say about the field guard service in Digotthal, that in the coming weeks and months, the field guards are expected to receive the same support as before. The priority service at the border is the stopping of more than 200,000 migrants, who are banging Hungary's border. The people who may cross the border are causing extremely serious agricultural and material damage to the people there, so Hungary's Government has decided that by strengthening the field service in Asotthalom and the southern border area, it will clearly ensure that not only border hunting units, not only the military, not only the police, but also the field guard service, provide adequate protection for all Hungarian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The questions raised by you are all questions about how the Government of Hungary can be shown in any case in any speech in a negative way. I ask you and your fellow parties very much to believe this, but it is not just a matter of faith that the decisions of the government, the decisions of the government, all prove that we are trying and doing everything we can for the Hungarian population and every single person in Hungarian society. They will be supported in order not to lose, but to say that we will emerge from this situation in a stronger way. At the same time, it is unacceptable for us to try to get the Hungarian people from Brussels to pay the cost of war and sanctions. I'm asking you to give these a realistic assessment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-8	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda, Mr Szabó Timea, the Dialogue Group, spoke with a title on current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-10-10-9	Ladies and gentlemen, State Secretary Bence Rétvári has just told a fellow opposition Member why he is speaking in education when he has not spoken in this regard. I would like to say that you have been the Secretary of State of the EMMI and not of the Ministry of the Interior, then perhaps you should not be speaking in this either, because the internal affairs has about as much to do with education as you thought about my fellow Members. But let's get to the other big mouth: you think that if the economy grows, there's more to be spent on education. Over the last ten years, the economy has been growing steadily thanks to a global economic recovery, compared to which we see that Hungary, Viktor Orbán and your government have spent 2.5 percent of GDP on public education, which is the third worst rate in the European Union. [[Bence Rétvári: Who says that?]] In 2016, László Palkovics said that the average salary of the teacher will reach 80 percent of the average salary. It had nothing to do with this at the time, EU funds, sanctions and other things. They haven't been able to keep up with that either. By 2019, the amount allocated to secondary schools was halved compared to 2014 and the economy grew everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this is not a mistake, this is a historical crime, this is treason. A government that destroys public education solely to maintain power is a historical sin, betrays its own future, betrays its own youth, betrays its own country. The government that, according to the KSH payroll, still pays a beginner educator HUF 220,000 net, and for 20 years, the teacher on the track receives HUF 280,000 net, while Viktor Orbán receives a monthly salary of HUF 5 million, he commits treason. Here's the KSH payroll, 220,000 forints is made today by a beginner educator. The government that destroys public education so much that at the international competence survey Hungarian students perform one of the worst [[Eszter Debate: That's not true!]] Here is the diagram of the PISA test [[He's showing it to me.]] , the green Hungary, the red Poland and the yellow one are the OECD average; the Hungarian students have caused such a fall thanks to your destruction of public education, well, the government that does this is committing national treason. The government that wants to spend 540 billion forints on a single Chinese secret service university at Fudan University, while spending 450 billion forints on the entire Hungarian higher education budget, is committing national treason. The government that spends 70 billion forints on Zsolt Semjén's hunting exhibition and refuses to raise the money for public education is committing national treason. The government that threatens teachers against hunger in hundreds of settlements, communicates with its own propaganda and gets him fired, commits treason. The government that has fired his 34-year-old teacher at Kölcsey Ferenc High School six months before retirement is committing national treason. Ladies and gentlemen, You are committing treason now, betraying the future of your own young people, our young people. There is no teacher, there is no future, even this morning he murmured before the Central Buda School District in Buda, because you are threatening teachers there as well as at Kölcsey High School, St. Stephen, Karinthy, Óbuda High School, II. Ferenc Rákóczi High School. But this is not a problem in Budapest, because the same thing is happening in hundreds of settlements, and not only public high schools and schools, but also church schools are protesting. Of the teachers of Lajos Nagy High School of the Cistercian Order of Pécs, forty people signed the protest petition, the teacher of the St. Imre High School of Cistercian Cistercian of Buda on News TV told us how many Katalin Karikó we are losing because of your destruction. Ladies and gentlemen, The Dialogue presented a HUF 286 billion wage increase proposal for the budget, but you wiped it out. There's money in public education, only you threaten me, punish me, employ retortions. Neither the students, nor the parents, nor the teachers will tolerate this. Finish the threat and get your education in order. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue and Momentum.]]
u2022-10-10-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I don't know exactly where you quote numbers. Resources for education: I went up to the Eurostat website because you claimed that 2.5 percent was there. Well, there's 4.7 percent, Congresswoman. [[Eszter Vitalos: How interesting! That's interesting.]] In the euro area, 4.9 per cent in the EU and 4.7 per cent in the EU. There we are on the same level as the German spending ratio, we are more than Spanish, Slovak, Italian or Irish. You're confusing things again. You don't like the government, which is natural, but don't try to make your country look like what you've been trying to do here. But then you were denied by your own diagram. [[Szabó Timea: The diagram didn't contradict me, it verified me!]] The PISA measurements show that Hungary is going up. [[Szabó Timea again shows a diagram: He does not go up, but goes down.]] If you compare the last two measurements, Congresswoman... [[11.30]]
u2022-10-10-12	Congresswoman! Excuse me, Deputy Minister. I don't remember Mr. Secretary of State speaking. Please do the same.
u2022-10-10-13	Believe me, it wasn't easy for us either. So, honourable Member, I trust that what you have shown has also shown that you are rising, thank God, the performance of Hungarian students. You gave us a scene with extremely sharp words and emotional charges, admitting that you said you were committing treason, a historical sin, betraying your country by the person who is destroying education. [[Szabó Timea: That's right!]] I think, before we think about it, whether you take it or not, you can direct that saying to Ferenc Gyurcsány, your own ally. What was different than cutting off education? [[Timea Szabó and Ágnes Kunhalmi intervene. Noise from the opposition benches.]] When they took a month's wages from the teachers? That's a reduction in education, isn't it? Because if it's a downsizing of education, it's treason, a historical sin, betrayal of the country. But we didn't do this, honourable Member. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: Yes, you can!]] It's your allies, and you're surrounded by then's ministers, undersecretaries, congressmen. Here they are, your allies, you campaigned for them. What is the dismissal of 15,000 teachers if it is not the reduction and destruction of education? But we did not do this, honourable Member, and your allies did this. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] What else is national treason, historical crime, the sale of the country, if it is not to put 15,000 teachers on the street from one school year to another? [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Local government reserve, not state! Continued noise and interruptions from opposition benches.]] Well, then I guess that means... [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Municipal Reserved, Non-State!]] You speak those words to your own allies. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The schools were closed in 381 places. The keys to these schools were symbolically brought to Szalay Street [[Szabó Timea: And you couldn't fix it in that time?]] and was taken over by representatives of the left-wing government. Congressman harvester took over. You campaigned for Mr. Arato [[Szabó Timea: When?]] Mr. Harvesto campaigned for you. But that's where the teachers took the 381 keys as a symbol of 381 closed schools. What is the downsizing of the country, if not 381 places for closing schools? [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] What is the destruction of education, if not this? But then who is the national traitor? [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, among them: You!]] Who committed a historical sin? Who betrays the country? And I could get on with making teacher training pay. It strengthens or weakens the education of Hungarian teachers [[Szabó Timea: Do you play ring?! It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] if tuition fees are also introduced in teacher training? The privatization of the National Book Publisher strengthens or weakens public education, Madam honourable Member, does it degrade, destroy education? Because if it destroys it, it's treason, it's historical sin. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] and the betrayal of this country, in your opinion, but it is not us that are doing it, but you, honourable Member. [[Bence of Turda: Look at the calendar! It's 22:00!]] The question of education, Madam honourable Member, is not about self-defence. [[Szabó Timea: $220,000 in salary!]] about going out and self-defeating with the protesters, but that requires a little more attention and a little more consistency. But consistency and you are obviously not in hand, because we have also heard sentences from you on one of your fellow Members, Márton Gyöngyösi, that it is unacceptable, that you should resign from your parliamentary mandate, that you are not worthy to be a Member. [[Szabó Timea: Is this the answer?]] "Thanks to Márton Gyöngyösi, it was a day of shame, and now he applauds and congratulates him for being elected president of Jobbik. It is not consistent in anything, honourable Member. You were talking about wages. These wages, we believe, must be further increased. [[Intervention from the opposition side: Na!]] It is necessary, which is why we have decided, and that is why we have adopted a budget that will cover the increase in teachers' wages next year. You know, your political family accepted that. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] on a proposal from the IMF, which has reduced the coverage of teachers' wages from one year to the next in the budget, and we have the one in which they are rising. We are going to work on the fact that we want sanctions to end as soon as possible, so that we have the EU's own resources here in Hungary as soon as possible, and you have not agreed to the accelerated negotiation of this, honourable Member, so that this teacher's wage increase will be increased as soon as possible. As of 1 January, there will be a teacher's wage increase, it is certain to what extent more than 10 percent will come, and we will be working on it. Unfortunately, you are working against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-10-14	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. My fellow Members, please try to consult at the Group meetings, not here in the Chamber, because work is being done. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, from the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-scheduled speech: without Fidesz there is a future, but without teachers there is no future! Or when will educators finally be appreciated, and when will they stop terrorizing protest teachers? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A good 200 years ago, there was a political polythesis overseas, who perhaps took democratic principles and constitutionality a little more seriously than so many, but perhaps also the issue of education, in the pro-government benches. It's Benjamin Franklin. Somehow he said that anyone who thinks learning is expensive should try to be ignorant. Well, if we look at, say, the fiscal corner numbers, then what we need to see is that you really think that learning, education, is expensive, so you don't want to sacrifice on it. But here in Conservative Jobbik, we think it's the best investment in the future. Mr State Secretary, I think you could easily bear to condemn Hungarian society to ignorance, and we also see that this is also their goal in some respect. But we have to say no to that, too. How bad the problem is, let me refer to the PISA surveys and the results of such competence measurements, according to which 25 percent of our 15-year-olds are virtually functional illiterate. But the problem is even bigger, because there is also a party leader who can't even interpret a simple Facebook post. What's this about? Now that we have thought that you have trampled on the last healthy manifestations of civil society, the little flames of civic consciousness and freedom have finally appeared. By the way, we should protect them in such a fearsome way that your propaganda door, your media, can't take advantage of that by asking for coffee and sitting back. That is why I would also like to ask everyone here to express our solidarity on the opposition side, if necessary, as simple protestors at these demonstrations, but not on them. We don't want to outsource the organization itself from the hands of civilians. Mr Secretary, I would ask you, however, how much longer do you want to intimidate and humiliate the Hungarian teachers in the district. How many other teachers will be fired just because they dare to participate in these protests? Secretary of State, answer me: when will there be a new Klebelsberg model, a new Klebelsberg turnaround in Hungary? Tomorrow we remember the 90th anniversary of the death of Kunó Klebelsberg, and the legendary minister of education between the two world wars was serious when he said that we would base the future in schools. Mr. State Secretary and fellow members of the Government, what do you think, Mr.Orbán was serious about the golden cover of our competitiveness being the knowledge of our young people? For this knowledge, which is not created on its own, well-educated teachers would also be required. Therefore, we should attract and keep the best young people on this course. But if it is true that the school is actually a small form of society, then there is a legitimate question of how we want effective, effective and fair education in Hungary, if this society is half-feudal, your politics are authoritarian, and this society is affected by a terrible social crisis. You may recall the open letter from a moldy cellar by a career-starting educator. Orbán also had a good advice on crisis management, which said that you should eat less or earn more. Quite simply, eating less would be physically impossible for these career-starting educators as well. And to make more money, it's up to you all to yourself, because there's no gratuity money here, there's no greasy public procurement in overpriced form. My fellow Member, Mr Secretary, you will ask where we can get the money for this. It shouldn't be, say, the Vodafone, the loss of Vodafone, throwing away hundreds of billions of dollars, or even taxing your oligarchs if they were able to mess with the cataclysms. Moral and material appreciation would be the secret that should be understood, so that the problems that we have in the domestic education issue can finally be resolved. For this, we ask for a new Klebelsberg turnaround in the field of education in Hungary. Thank you. I look forward to your meaningful and cynical response. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[11.40]]
u2022-10-10-16	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-10-10-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I agree with two things: one is that teachers' wages should be increased and the other is what you mentioned, that it was not the sympathy protest next to the Dobrev shadow government last week, but the teachers and those who supported them demonstrated that the wages of teachers would rise. By increasing the salary of the teacher, the government not only agrees, but also passed a law on how to increase it from 1 September next year, so four months from now, and we also agree that this is preferably even the... [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks.]] Excuse me, rise from January 1st. We also agree that, if possible, it should rise even further from 1 January. We don't ask questions about this, we tell them what the possibility is. I have already said this here today, and I do not want to repeat it, Mr honourable Member, but I trust that if the European economy returns to its normal timetable, the sanctions will end, and Hungary's economy will be able to strengthen further, or if our EU funds will not be held back from us, we can use it for this surplus. That's one thing I agree with. And the other is what you said, and you may have written this on your Facebook page, or you said this weekend or last week that you would be a leech and you would be more than counterproductive to possess the party-independent wave of protests of teachers and students. You may be saying this to make Jobbik somewhat different from other left-wing opposition parties, I don't know your inner motives, but it's true that it wasn't a party political movement here, it was a demonstration from teachers. There is no doubt that party politicians have tried to take pictures there and take advantage of it politically, and some have seen that they are not politicians, but if they are on stage, they will finally be able to speak in front of a large audience, and there may have been other people who speak in front of a smaller audience. Or someone sees economic opportunities and sells sweaters, T-shirts and bags at a price of 17 thousand, 12 thousand and 8 thousand forints after the demonstration, they have seen a different perspective, but they have already sold a change of government on the same platform, so they always try to get into the spotlight at every demonstration. But it wasn't about them last week, it was about honoring teachers financially and in all other ways. For example, with regard to the appreciation of teachers, honourable Member, and here comes the part that I do not agree with you, let us not unduly downgrade your work. You and Congresswoman Timea Szabó said that, perhaps, they put it this way, that Hungary is going downhill in all sorts of rankings. Here I had time to find out quickly between the two speeches that the previous PISA survey, which was said to have led us down to the 35-47th place in the Hungarian students' understanding of the text, was now 29-38th place. They were in Mathematics in the 35-39th place, now they're in 31-37th place. They were in the 34-39th place of natural science, now they're in 29-34th place. It's hard to get rid of basic mathematical knowledge that these are positive turns. If you also look at the PISA measurement of how well the family background has defined the progress of students, so those who come from a good family background do well, who come from a bad family background is more difficult to perform, then in 2010 26 percent of students had a family background that determined where the limit was, where the glass ceiling was in fulfillment, and today it is 19.1 percent, so we were able to go from 26 percent to 20 percent. These are important results. Don't tell me, please, in this Parliament, that in all sorts of rankings with such deep professionalism and specificity it may not be worth saying, we are doing badly in all areas, because thank God we are doing this. Thank God, if we look at Eurostat as a proportion of GDP, we are also 0.3 percent below the EU average, 0.2 percent below the euro area. If we look at PISA or TIMSS and other measurements here, there is one where Finland, let's say, is ahead of us in the science of the eighth graders, but we are even better than the fourth graders, and in mathematics, let's say, we are better than the Americans, the English and the Finnish. So let us be proud of these results, let us not pretend that the standards of Hungarian education have disappeared over the past ten years. There it is, thank God, in Hungarian education the standard is, we can only see that the doctor's wages have gone by because it has increased by two and a half times, it has been 72 percent for nurses, and compared to that, teachers say that they also need a bigger rise. In addition, now we are all paying the penalty premium at the store for bread, milk, yogurt, butter, everything, you can see here that they can buy less of their money, and they are absolutely right to say that they want to earn more because of their socially valuable work, and it is indeed justified because of the penalty increases. We want to do this, which is why we want sanctions to end, and we can finally add to economic growth. And we would like it to end when the Hungarian left goes to Brussels, dictates its own country. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and thus hinders us from turning our own resources into educators' wages, for example. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-18	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, For a speech before the agenda, Ms Éva Sebők, Member of the Momentum Group, spoke with a title on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-19	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, You are probably all aware of the serious problem of purchasing firewood in our country for some time now, I suspect, however, that most people are not aware of how serious the situation is. My team and I conducted a quick survey at the beginning of August: out of the 25 fires visited in Békés County, only one place could have provided firewood on the same day, with a maximum of four grams. We repeated the survey in mid-September, then we would have been able to buy 2 out of 25 firewood, but also there with serious quantitative restrictions. By this time, many firemen decided to stop selling firewood, where they had not done so, for several weeks, not in one case for several months, if they dared to promise anything. Parallelly, the government introduced the official priced firewood. On 28 September 2022, my team and I also contacted the state forestry sales points at interesting official prices in Békés County. It was impossible to reach them on the phone, so we visited them personally. At the box point of sale, we found a chained location, so they were personally unavailable. At the central point of sale in Szeged, my colleague's data was recorded, but they dared not make any promises regarding either the Szeged, the Makó, the martyrdom or the dig-in point of sale. However, we continued the most educational conversation in Gyula, where the sales point worker, balancing on the brink of a complete nervous breakdown, said desperately that he could write down our names and phone numbers, but he has no idea when there will be wood, no one can promise anything, transport, cutting, no idea what will happen in the county to those who can only heat with wood. The municipalities are in no better position. Over the last few months, I've been in contact with several mayors of Békés County. To date, the overwhelming majority of settlements have not purchased social firewood, nor are they more advanced if they give money or vouchers to those in need, because if there is no wood, then money, vouchers or not, they will not be able to obtain wood. It further raises the expected disaster that public-price sellers do not undertake transport or shredding. For example, the Gadorosians and the Charcoalians should travel between 51 and 51 kilometers and somehow bring the uncut tree directly from the forest. How are they gonna do that? Anyone who doesn't have a means of transport is gonna take the extra ounces of wood on a Volan bus? Who's gonna chop it up? Will the 80-year-old lady Mary with the double hips be able to cut wood with an axe? At the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, Attila Sztojka Fideszes, Member, said that the municipalities would resolve it. Well, fellow members of the government, I don't know how you spend your days, what movies you're watching, but no mayor I'm looking for knows that they have such a job, and none of them can take on this task, so they don't plan on doing this job, they don't have the money, they don't have the man, they don't have the means. In the current situation, this cannot be expected of the municipalities, in the midst of their total bleeding out. In the middle of the summer, the Ministry of Interior wanted to assess how schools could switch to heating with wood, but if we can't serve the needs of the population, how can they imagine that schools are being heated with wood? Although this seems to be resolved at the moment, since teachers protesting over unsustainable working conditions are being bombed by school districts by threatening letters, they will be warm at the fires. So if the state does not intervene now, it is not difficult to predict what will happen: the official priced firewood will be bought up by resourceful people who do not even heat with wood, they will carry it away, chop it up with their own means, and sell it to those who really need it with great profit. In this case, the official price will be for the wholesale of black market hyenas, and people will see nothing of the discounts, and those who cannot pay these parasites will freeze to death in their own home. [[11.50]] Therefore, representing the Momentum Movement, I turn to the government with a heavy heart, but with the following: In order to avoid a social disaster, we call on the government to use the human and material resources existing in the Hungarian Defence Service, which can be transferred without risking the protection of the country, to help transport, distribution, or even the exploitation of safe opportunities. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2022-10-10-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Korm0ány, Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas wishes to answer. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm in a lucky position to live in the same neighborhood as you, so the situation is a little bit different, I could say that it's much better, and I could even say that it's more encouraging than what you've outlined here. Firstly, we need to ask why we needed to launch a firewood programme in Hungary. The first answer is that, of course, due to increased gas prices and energy prices, many families are trying to restore dual, wood-fired and coal-fired boilers, thus reducing the use of gas. It's one thing. I don't think there's a problem with that, because where we have these gas boilers, every family usually has a safe fire source. [[Eva Scars intervenes.]] Do you mind if I go through with this? The fact that you don't have it, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Why there is not enough firewood in the South Great Plain, the answer is very simple: there is no forest. DALARD Rt. The forest areas managed by the forest are minimal, they are not sufficient to provide sufficient firewood in the South Great Plain, so the agricultural administration now uses rail transports and truck transports from the forest farms of Zala, Mecsek, Pilisi and NESZAKEDŐ to transport the wood to these districts in greater quantities from the end of last week and from the beginning of this week. There are some 152 or 156 places in the country, some of which you have said. Of course, because the forest economy does not have a productionable amount of wood, these trees must start moving from somewhere else in the country. Of course, the forest economy was not fully prepared for this amount of demand, which is why more than 3,000 professionals now carry out extra transfers, with various transfers; the graduates of the forest schools, who already have adequate professional knowledge, can do this professional work, which means cutting down trees and twigging them. So from this point of view, it is now safe to say that a stock of wood, firewood, will be available to the population, which is certain that it will not meet the needs of a hundred percent, because the production of so many firewood does not go from one moment to another, it will take several months. But once again, I would like to refer to everyone's responsibility, because what you said about the problems with social firewood, I have completely different information about it. In the social firewood action, the municipalities acquired the mass of these trees in time. [[Éva Scars: I've never seen anything like it!]] Well, you've been looking in the wrong place. So it's clear to me, and I've personally seen these courtyards where these trees are stored. [[Éva Sebők: Enter the name of the settlements?]] and will be issued to those in need of it in a proper, gradual manner, not at the same time. Should we cut it together, or should the government put the lighter in the stove with paper, or should he have the matches? I don't think so. [[Eve Scars: How does Aunt Mary deliver it? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't think so. It's the responsibility of each family to make those basic things, because if it hadn't been for firewood action now, wouldn't it have been the big firewood program that the government announced, so I ask you, what do these families do, how do they think? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That's why both of us have a responsibility. Parents who support their children also have responsibility for how they will heat. [[Eva Scars intervenes. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The government also has a responsibility to help these families with the national firewood program and the social firewood program. So we should not always speak in Parliament in a situation where, at last, a social programme, a helping programme that is helping a lot of people, and you are dissatisfied with why the firewood is not cut together. Well, I'm sorry, Congresswoman, to say that to a rural representative in this House today, I think that's beneath criticism. [[Eve Scars: Is Aunt Mary taking a Volán bus 50 miles to pick up a tree?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-10-22	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on education and the future. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-10-23	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, Women and Secretary of State, Lords! I want to talk about the state and future of Hungarian public education. I'll try the impossible, and with you, Mr. Secretary, I want to have a dialogue. The most recent issue of Hungarian public education has become a discipline issue. The career model turned out to be this, an insubordination case. They say that it is disciplinary issues that really characterize today's Hungarian public education. You're punishing me for insubordination. I would like to say that it is worth your punishment for disobedience, because the first disobedience was committed by you, the government and the government's policies. You promised to introduce a career model that required more work from teachers on one side and promised more money from the other side by system character. Therefore, the minimum wage has been set as a benchmark, which they have taken, agreed, here in Parliament your predecessor, Madam Secretary of State, announced, and after a year and a half, you have been disobedient. They broke their promise. They disobeyed because they broke their own, not enforced promises, not as a result of some kind of demand, but as a result of their own promises, their one and a half years of factual policies. When I talk about disobedience, however, we can only have a normal dialogue if we tell them that there is a way out of this. Yeah. Yes! However, the professional goal you have set will not be good, Mr Secretary of State. You said that by 2027 they would gradually increase the wages of teachers to 80% of the minimum wage and the average salary of the graduates, but I think that this is a mistake professionally. Don't do that. They're gonna be the same as before when they set a bad target, otherwise they put a lot of money in it, and then it didn't turn out to be anything. It turned out to be a disciplinary matter after a decade. By the way, the demands of the trade unions, Mr. Secretary, are very low-key. They're not excessive, they're moderate and reasonable. The fact is that if you kept your own promise in 2013, teachers' wages would not be 45 percent higher than those demanded by the teachers' unions, but 97 percent higher. The trade unions are demanding not the 97 percent you promised, but more equitable, almost half. [[12.00]] If you had kept your promise or wished to make up for it now, it would cost 800 billion forints. What teachers' unions demand is 350 billion forints. I suggest you make a deal. Give me this money as long as it's a real enough demand. At the same time, I regret to say that only by raising teachers' wages will the entire problem of public education not be solved. Raising educators' wages is essential for maintaining standards, but not sufficient. You relived the past; well, I stand before you. The fact is, Mr State Secretary, when we handed over the government, Hungarian public education was in a better state in all respects than it was 12 years later. [[Bence of Rétvári: Bold!]] He was in better shape, and we knew that the characters were talking to each other. You have canceled the channels of dialogue. The forms that your first government has used and cannot be agreed upon have been removed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Fix this. Bring him back! Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-10-10-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári responds. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for your calm tone, honourable Member, but I will not agree with the good part of what you have said, but thank you for the sound of your speeches. He said how good he was in 2010 because there was dialogue. Because, Congressman, they were ruling in a minority, there was no dialogue with their coalition partners, let alone with sectoral organisations. So let's not paint this period like everyone agreed with everyone and it was a nice dialogue. When Ferenc Gyurcsány explained why teachers' wages should be reduced: because this is reasonable. Because the IMF had two requests, and that's reasonable. That's what Ferenc Gyurcsány said. On the one hand, in order to cover only as many expenditures as the country has covered under a pessimistic scenario, the other one says, and the elimination of the 13th month teacher's wage, the reduction of the teacher's salary is necessary because of the agreement to be concluded with the IMF, and it says that what the IMF requested from Hungary was reasonable. This is not a dialogue with teachers, it is a dialogue with the IMF. What was the IMF's demand, the then government said was reasonable and then implemented. You spoke about the future, the future of education, and the title of your speech. We agree with that. It must have been very intoxicated, because when you were protesting against you, this was on the banners when the teachers were protesting against you: "Don't save on the future." -- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- They put these on their boards, and they chanted them when you were on the government and protested against you. When, today, we told you what happened: when 15,000 teachers were dismissed, when the schools were closed in 381 places, when they reduced the teacher's wages, when they privatized the National Book Publisher, they paid for the teacher's training, yes, that's what you were told not to save on the future! When was Hungarian public education, public education on a more secure basis? There was a very important change after 2010. Before 2010, the municipalities were the maintenance of schools, and since 2010 the state has been the maintenance of schools through the districts. There are no more KLIK, Klebelsberg Institutional Center, but there are districts, and the schools are being held up by the schools. Schools were underfunded in the past. That is why it could have been a deficit, loan, outstanding debt, debt to municipalities, because they received less money than schools and hospitals and social institutions could be operated, making them underfunded. And that's why there were huge differences between school and school. Today, I referred to how much less the social background now has to do with educational outcomes than before; among other things, because, obviously, if there were more disadvantaged families in one settlement, the whole settlement was more disadvantaged, and the school became more disadvantaged and regenerated. Now it regenerates it in a much smaller proportion, because the state finances the institutions in the same way everywhere, so it will be more uniform and secure, and it will be easier to find the scientists of the future, the Nobel Prize winners of the future, and everyone else, because if a child is born for a small settlement... even though we know now famous scientists who started their studies at a small settlement school, but they can now work in a more secure institution. So I think we're on a better footing than we were in 2010, because at that time, there were 3200 funding models for each school. Honourable Congressman, Today, too, everyone saw the possibility of peaceful demonstration last week, the possibility of a legitimate strike. Therefore, no one has ever been at any disadvantage. You can't even tell me if someone was on strike in compliance with the law or demonstrated peacefully, and because of that, there has been any disadvantage since 2010. Not just last week, since 2010. I can give you an opposite example from before 10, even my own example. I think there were a lot of us there in 2006 who experienced how you imagine maintaining your power at that time by force. This, thank God, can't be set as an example since 2010. Unfortunately, it's from earlier times. As far as wages are concerned, I fully agree with the need to increase them further. You know that it will rise from January, and we should all be working on covering as many increases as possible in the coming months, ending sanctions as soon as possible, getting our own resources for our own purposes as soon as possible. A lot has happened in recent years. If you're looking at a college-educated teacher's salary, it's 141 percent higher. If you're looking at a 20-year-old college-educated teacher who's a teacher, He's moved on, he's got a 132 percent higher income. If you're looking at a college-educated teacher, you're looking at 156 percent, and if you're a 20-year-old teacher, He's graduated, he's looking at a college-educated teacher, and he's got a 142 percent higher income. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what we need to raise, but in the past few years, thank God, so we've done a lot of things. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-10-26	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Balázs Barkóczi, MEP, DK Group, asked to speak with the title of News Affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, Hungary's in trouble. The fact that Hungary is in trouble shows that many of its symptoms are becoming more and more severe: the health system is collapsing, the forint is breaking new negative records, such as today; the ruble right is rushing and the economy is turning into recession. The Orbán government has caused a crisis in all areas, including education. The fact that Hungary is in trouble also shows that more and more people are protesting more and more often. Last week, for example, 40,000 people filled Kossuth Square, we know that in the Fidesz propaganda door there would be two million people, precisely because the Orbán government cynically and irresponsiblely entrusted the Hungarian education to a police officer. The fact that Sándor Pintér's appointment is going to be a problem was seen from the beginning. His whole personality is not fit to represent the cause of Hungarian education, because order, threat, non-permissibility of civil disobedience cannot be achieved here. Ladies and gentlemen, Count István Széchenyi said at the time: "The power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads of men. Mr Fidesz, ladies and gentlemen, You have turned Hungary into a weak nation. 16,000 teachers are missing from the system today. This means that there will be a missing specialist or a language teacher at each school. You have also acknowledged in your report to the European Commission that almost 50 percent of teachers are over 50 years old and there is no replacement, because no one wants to get a teacher's degree to earn less than an afternoon cleaner. And now you're firing and threatening the teachers. So it's not enough that you guys are gonna make the kids shivering at 18 degrees in schools. [[Bence Rétvári: Because of us? Because of us?]] But they can't even get the knowledge from your outdated and unconventional education system that they would otherwise deserve. The PISA survey has been mentioned here several times. We see the results of the last 12 years: the performance of Hungarian students on PISA tests describes a curve similar to the Hungarian forint exchange rate. There is therefore a crisis in all areas, and as long as Viktor Orbán and his government remain, the crisis remains. This was not always the case, of course, as we can remember: before 2010, it was possible to get out of the teacher's payment, to pay the bills, there was a free textbook selection, a fair and professionally agreed national basic curriculum, so it was better to be a student and teacher before 2010. I was also a teacher, I know and have experienced what has been going on in education in recent years, that Fidesz has been refusing to sit down with teachers, educators and educators for years. While you, fellow pro-government Members, want to spend 750 billion on the acquisition of Vodafone, a loss-making company, while threatening and firing teachers demanding better working conditions and wage increases. It's a shame! The shame of this country is that not only do they not pay teachers who love their profession and fear for the future, but they are also threatened with firing them. Several times, the educator's wage increase was made out of the Secretary of State's mouth. We can see that the valve is leaking. Gergely Gulyás said at the Government Info, that Brussels and the opposition did not allow them to give a bigger teacher's wage increase. Then Speaker László Kövér denied all this in an interview; he said that Brussels had nothing to do with educators' wage increases, and he also said that their self-esteem should not depend on money. [[12.10]] What kind of cynical language is that, fellow Members? What a cynical text from the ruling party that had nothing more important to do than raise the Prime Minister's salary to five million forints! [[Dr. János Fónagy: How much is yours?]] Hungary is in trouble, and education is in trouble, but shadow government led by Dobrev Klára [[Bence Rétvári: Oops, oops!]] you will do that, and we have already started this process, which you have refused to do in 12 years, you have not been able to do. Last Friday we consulted teachers, members of the teachers' organisations, presidents and educational professionals, and this process will continue. The shadow government will show that teachers are not alone. We demand that you immediately take back the illegally laid-off teachers, demand that they restore fair strike rights and start negotiating with teachers and teachers' leaders. But it is not enough to be in the crowd, so we will begin to develop a new national education strategy with professionals, trade unions and teachers, and beyond that, we demand that the government return the school, together with the resources to maintain it, to the municipalities who ask for it, so that teachers can no longer be threatened by the school district. And another sentence: education is everyone's cause, the Hungarian future is everyone's case, not a party's, and not a member's, so every elected representative has a duty to help protesters by all means. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-10-28	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He's put up a number of things, and I'd like to respond, if possible, to all of them. As far as expression of opinion is concerned, indeed, in recent days, as has been the case in recent years, there have been several demonstrations. What is important in my view, honourable Member, is that everyone can now express their opinion in Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: They will be fired afterwards.]] Whether it is teachers or others, without the danger of facing rubber bullets. [[Zsolt Gréczy: They didn't burn down the city! The president's ringing the bell.]] That's a huge difference from your time. Now you, I'm telling you, are a shadow minister of education and culture, a shadow minister, and you say you used to work as a teacher. Then you also know very well that during the period that you so magnified, wages were not increased but reduced. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 50 percent wage increase.]] - They took it a month ago. At that time, they did not create new posts, but liquidated posts: 15,000 teachers were put on the street. 15 grand! Nearly 400, to be exact, 381 sites have completely eliminated educational activity. Nearly 400 places! And I could say that 40,000 students had to rewrite their graduations during the period that you exalted. They made promises to free textbooks and failed to fulfill them; this was the government that carried it out. I would like to emphasise once again, as Mr Secretary of State has done, that we consider the salary increase programme important for teachers as well. We are committed, which is why you could see that, as the economic situation made this possible, a comprehensive wage increase programme for teachers first took place in 2012. There was also a wage increase during the epidemic, also in January this year, and the Prime Minister made it clear that there would still be a wage increase, and the government is also looking at the possibility of using EU funds for this wage increase programme. So I ask you, too, to use all your authority to ensure that your fellow Members do not vote in such a way as to prevent the arrival of EU funds. By the way, I listened to your party president's interview a few days ago, where he talked about the fact that the shadow government is full of excellent people. According to press reports, you were convicted of fraud a few years ago, and we also know that you have received the cultural shadow; well, it is good to know that on the left, mischief, culture and excellent politicians are not mutually exclusive concepts. [[Sándor Barkóczi: Völner, Schadl, Simonka...]] True, in the party of rubber bullets, let's say there are too many surprises. Your position on matters of livelihood is also telling: you argued that, at the time of its introduction, it was a lie to limit energy prices, so there is another left-wing shadow minister who would not give support to families at all. He wouldn't have given in the last ten years, and he wouldn't have given in this difficult time. This, let us be clear, would mean HUF 181 thousand minus for all households in Hungary. [[Sándor Barkóczi: What if the market price had been paid?]] If your proposal were to come true. We also know, for example, that he severely criticized the border lock; this has been said less recently. You said that you would not allow us to use EU funds to do this. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, while the main focus is now on living issues due to sanctions, there have been nearly 200,000 illegal attempts at crossing our southern borders only this year, so only in Hungary, only this year is nearly 200 thousand. If it were up to you, and according to your statements, we can say that right now, there would be nothing from the border lock. And to mention one more thing: you attacked the government because you supported the foreign Hungarians, called it a despicable mischief, that the government would send support to our foreign national fellows, as you said: "I'm going abroad." You think it's abroad, but we think it's our people. Now, these few examples show that the shadow government may be new, but politics remains the same. It is no coincidence that the Hungarians did not choose this, nor did they choose this on 3 April, nor in the vast majority of the interim elections since then. Please respect that. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-10-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Béla Mihálffy, the KDNP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-10-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since the end of August, the press has been loud about the fact that Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for the fallen Prime Minister on the left, in a radio podcast, told us that he led the Hungarian Movement this June, he received hundreds of millions of HUF support from the American Foundation Action for Democracy, linked to George Soros, and paid the last bills of the campaign with the help of this money. In fact, according to what he said at the time, they had already received three or four larger items through this body. Later, the fallen savior of the left made himself clear when he told us that eight dollars of macro donation equal to HUF 1.86 billion had expanded the account of his movement. Although he first denied that these funds had been used for their election campaign, he later said that the support of Action for Democracy was admitted to being replaced by the Hungarian government. I think that the formula is infinitely simple, and the solution is now quite clear. The election campaign of the Hungarian left was financed from the United States and ultimately by George Soros, alias dollar papa. In addition to the fact that what has happened to the well-meaning Hungarians raises moral questions above all, the procedure, as an illegal foreign attempt to intervene in the Hungarian electoral processes, is clearly illegal, but, in view of its importance and weight, it also presents serious national security risks. There's a reason why the National Security Committee of last Thursday decided to order a secret service investigation into the case. It is also extremely talkative, of course, that the former allies of the fallen Prime Minister candidate are deeply silent about what has happened. There is therefore a legitimate question as to the extent to which foreign money of questionable origin has contributed to the joint campaign financing of the left, and it is right that Hungarians are interested in who, and for what reason, wanted to intervene in the Hungarian elections by financing the left. Ladies and gentlemen, However, thanks to Daddy Dollars, the election campaign on the left is not the only one with a large amount of money. While millions of dollars migrated here to the account of the failed presidential candidate movement, out in America, Dávid Korányi, the Hungarian leader of Action for Democracy, who is a very well-earned earner, lives a fairytale royal life. At the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány's prime minister's political career, Korányi, who started in MSZP and then worked as chief advisor of the Prime Minister of Gordon Bajnai before 2010, later as State Secretary for Foreign and Security Policy, lived his luxurious everyday life on a continent far from Budapest and Europe, but became Gergely Karácsony's chief city diplomatian advisor since the autumn of 2019. [[12.20]] For some incomprehensible reason, this lucky good man ends up in jobs where George Soros' money arrives. Just to give an example, he has been a strategic advisor for many years to a communist neoliberal institution called GLOBSEC, which is based in Bratislava, and which, of course, is supported by the most important foundation of the dollar papa. Korányi led and financed Gergely Christmas, then Péter Márki-Zay during the last election campaign, so the press and the media rightly called him the boss of the Hungarian dollar left. By the way, from the rolling dollars, he could also obtain a lot of spending on the DataAdat Group named former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai, as in the light of the history, it can be assumed that SMS campaigns and Facebook ads that became infamous as a result of data protection violations have also been financed from the large donations received by Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the entire Hungarian society has the right to know and to know exactly what the serious billions received from abroad were spent on, precisely from whom these insane sums came, and, most importantly, for what purpose did Péter Márki-Zay and the entire left with him receive it; what was the reason why they were willing to give up our country's sovereignty and independence from foreign powers in return. I therefore sincerely hope that, following an investigation by the National Security Committee, all relevant objectives [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He will be brought to light, and anyone who has broken the law will be responsible for his actions both politically and in court. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr. Balázs Fürjes responds, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2022-10-10-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In short, let me start by saying three plus one item. This money was given to Péter Márki-Zay, who was the joint candidate for Prime Minister of the left-wing parties sitting here, and the united left, Jobbik, DK, Dialogue, LMP and MSZP spent this money, these US dollars, so obviously the responsibility is on them, if it turns out that, in addition to moral issues, legal irregularities have occurred. The other item is that there is no free lunch. So, obviously, in politics, it is not a question of generously giving billions of forints, millions of dollars to the left, and in return they do not ask for anything. That is why the third point is that it is simply called political corruption, left-wing political corruption. And here is the fourth point: while serious issues arise in Hungary, in which, unfortunately, political corruption, left-wing political corruption, seems to prevent national unity: war or peace, sanctions and economic disintegration and unemployment, or the survival of European economies. And the third important question is the arbitrary looting of Hungary or the provision of EU funds for us. Our opinion on these issues is clear, we say that Hungary's interest in peace, we reject the war, we call for an immediate truce and the opening of peace negotiations, on the other hand, the left is on the side of the war, Hungary would have been dragged into the war when the battles started, soldiers and weapons were sent to Ukraine, and since then nothing has been done for peace. In the case of a sanctions policy, we say that sanctions policy is harmful, causing economic damage to the whole of Europe, and we say that energy sources should in no way be subject to sanctions and that energy prices and inflation should be halved. Compared to this, the left is pro-sanctioned, the taps of gas and oil pipelines coming to Hungary would be blocked, and nuclear energy would also be persecuted. On the third issue, and on the EU money, Brussels is better than Brussels. At a time when Commissioner Hahn, the Commissioner for Finance, says to the Hungarian package of measures that Hungary has made important and public commitments in the right direction, I expressly welcome this constructive attitude, says the Commissioner of the European Union in Brussels, then the Hungarian Left will vote against Hungarian measures in the Hungarian Parliament and in the European Parliament, and when the bureaucrats in Brussels would agree, the Hungarian Left will also work against Hungary receiving the money due to him. The question is why they go against the interests of Hungary. The answer is simple and sad: because the left is paid for. That's why they got the millions of dollars, more than 2 billion forints from abroad to fund the left-wing election campaign, by the way, it seems to be illegal. That is why we can say that what the left is doing is called political corruption, left-wing political corruption. They've been corrupted for money and millions of dollars from abroad, and we're not saying it, you're saying it. The Socialist Co-President Ágnes Kunhalmi said so after the election, there is a literal quote:. The entire opposition is misunderstood, unfortunately in many respects it is isolated from the vast majority of its own electoral base. This is where the interesting part begins to come:.. He has been trying to meet a very narrow system of expectations for a very long time, which if someone tries to quit or talks or tries to speak in a different voice, then the literal quote ends in this way, killing them, said Ágnes Kunhalmi. The only question is, if Agnes Kunhalmi's statement is true, then who will put the words in your mouth, who will put the words in the mouth of the left, who will be acting on whose behalf, what is the relationship between the millions of dollars on the left laid out by Péter Márki-Zay and the statement by Ágnes Kunhalmi to tell you what to do, and if you do not behave like it, then I quote Ágnes Kunhalmi, who will kill you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-34	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Erik Bánki, Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech: with the title of our current affairs, you have the floor.
u2022-10-10-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The countries of the world have faced a long-awaited economic phenomenon over the past months: high inflation and price increases that seriously affect countries' economies and people's livelihoods. In some Member States of the European Union, inflation has already exceeded 20 percent. The economic problems are indirectly caused by war, and directly by war sanctions and sanctions, energy prices are rising several times. The war between Ukraine and Russia would be a local war, but due to sanctions it has serious global economic effects. In most countries, the increase in energy prices has a strong impact on inflation both indirectly and directly. After the adoption of economic, commercial sanctions, including oil transport sanctions, in Brussels, the introduction of gas purchase sanctions was immediately put at the table. From July 2022 the price of natural gas doubled in one month and then tripled in another one month. The Brussels rules link electricity prices to gas prices across the European Union, so the same process is also taking place in the electricity market. The market price for electricity in Europe was still under EUR 100 per megawatt in January 2022, still at EUR 100 in April 2022, but now it has risen between EUR 400 and EUR 600. Energy prices have increased due to sanctions, and these increases have also had a serious impact on food prices: cereal prices have been driven up to the top by increased production costs, and fertiliser prices have increased to three times in six months, for example. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is therefore safe to say that the sanctions have been imposed on Europe by Brussels bureaucrats, which also cause serious economic problems, energy crises and inflation. If sanctions were lifted, prices would be halved immediately, inflation would also be significantly reduced. Without sanctions, Europe's economy would once again recover and avoid an increasingly threatening recession. Then why do the sanctions remain, why is it not recognised in Brussels that this weapon is causing damage to Europe, much more damage than it is to Russia? [[12.30]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, since the war, in six months, Russia has made EUR 158 billion in energy exports. This is more than the total export price of Russia for 2021 in six months. As a result of the sanctions, Europe became poorer and Russia became richer. So this weapon backfired, with sanctions, Europe shot itself in the leg. These sanctions have caused serious economic damage, but have produced almost nothing political. They still do not see this in Brussels. They lied to European people when they said that sanctions would not be extended to energy, and that the effects of sanctions would be rapidly ending the Ukrainian war. Europeans pay sanctions for energy, which makes the future uncertain. The question is that we are going to continue on this road, because in Brussels they are going to introduce new sanctions packages. This also causes serious damage to Hungary. We must expect a prolonged war, preparing for this war to continue in our neighbourhood. In other words, security and the protection of the economy have become more important issues for Hungary than ever before. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government also protects families and Hungarian businesses in a difficult situation created by Brussels' failed sanctions policy. The Hungarian families would pay an average of 181 thousand forints each month without protection. Hungary is by far the first in Europe in terms of support to families, as it provides 30% of the average income as a subsidy, while the same wealthier Germany is only 20 percent and Austria is not even 6 percent. We also support energy-intensive small and medium-sized enterprises, we support producing companies with part of their energy costs and with the support of their energy efficiency investments, and a new job protection action plan is also expected for a factory rescue programme and the service sector. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Left attacked everything that serves Hungary's energy security. We therefore call on opposition representatives to take the interests of the Hungarian people instead of taking the side of Brussels. Hungary's position remains that peace is the most important thing for us, and we must do everything we can to ensure that this war ends. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Azbei Tristan will respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-10-10-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The past period has demonstrated that Hungary's energy supply and energy security are a fundamental existential interest. The war crises of the past period have brought European people, European economies, to unprecedented challenges in modern history. At the same time, the Brussels response, the failed sanctions policy, did not provide a solution to these challenges, but exacerbated it by the fact that we are now talking about a war and sanctions economic crisis, war and sanctions inflation and an energy crisis. The political considerations driven by these failed sanctions in Brussels and by the desire to support the left in Hungary, or by the rolling millions of dollars, can be an open question, and we, on the part of the Hungarian government, regard energy supply as a security, sovereignty and economic issue, not a political one. At all relevant negotiations, we stress that this is not a political decision on our part, but an economic and social necessity. Hungarian diplomacy, along with the Hungarian government, will do everything in its power to prevent Hungarian families from feeling the energy crisis. This puts us in a two-way fight. One is to comply with the provision of energy in a very special and very professional crisis of war. The other is to resist the misguided Brussels sanctions policy and the Hungarian left which supports it. In terms of energy supply, I can report that we are doing well, that our country's natural gas supply is continuing. Natural gas is also coming from Serbia, Austria, Romania and Croatia. The transit in Turkey, Bulgaria, Serbia operates smoothly and in full volume, underlining our previous correct decision on the southern route. In addition, preparation for the winter season is taking place in our storage facilities. Their charge already exceeds 75%, this is more than 47 percent of the annual Hungarian consumption. It wasn't a war response, it was a work started in 2010. That's when the Hungarian state started buying back gas reservoirs, and that's when we started building our capacity. And the fact that we are blocked by the Hungarian left in order to secure Hungary's energy supply is not a new thing, this has a historical history. It is enough to refer back to the fact that, during the prime ministership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, in 2006, gas reservoirs were privatized for foreign companies. The Orbán government bought them back in 2013. Let's see what the political reaction from the left was then, following a similar aspect as it is now. Bertalan Tóth, on behalf of the MSZP, said that the government burned HUF 6,000 billion by buying gas reservoirs. In fact, he called for accountability, filed a complaint, rushed to Brussels, wanted to set up a parliamentary committee on suspicion of illegal state aid. Imre Martha, the forerunner of the Hungarian dollar and luxury left, said that if he was in the position of the state, he wouldn't put too much money in a gas reservoir. The Hungarian government has done so, and has consistently represented the interests of the Hungarian people. Thus, the full winter consumption in Hungarian reservoirs may be available at present. In addition, in the area of sanctions policy, the government will never support sanctions proposals that jeopardise Hungary's energy supply, the Hungarian economy and families. Brussels bureaucrats and the left continue to support sanctions that destroy European economies. It has also been found that the left is funded from abroad to support sanctions in Brussels. Gyurcsányek would have shut off the gas and oil taps before the Hungarians. Thus, like migration, the left represents Brussels' position on sanctions, not the Hungarian people. Basically, this is a self-destructive attitude for the left, which has also been shown by the elections, but since it is an existential, fundamental Hungarian interest, a national interest, please stop this behaviour and this policy. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-38	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. Mr. Messenger!
u2022-10-10-39	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ferenc Varga, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; János Bencze, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; Zoltán Varga, DK; Miklós Hajnal, Momentum; Péter Jakab, independent.
u2022-10-10-40	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:38 p.m., we'll begin questioning. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Regional Development:. Do you know who will be president of the anti-corruption authority? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. You have been swearing for months between the European Commission and the walls of this House to restore the rule of law and to eradicate corruption. The whole thing, of course, we know that it's a charade, in fact, they made a series of laws, and they submitted them to the Parliament so that EU funds would come back, and you could steal them again. That is why we say that these are, in fact, laws that support corruption, which we certainly do not vote for, we have not voted for, but that they will not prevent you from stealing further. However, among these laws, their proposal to establish so-called integrity integrity is also highlighted, which is designed to be the miracle authority of the Orbán system against corruption. [[12.40]] We are talking about a so-called independent authority prepared by Antal Rogán, and his president will be proposed by the President of the Fidesz SAO, who will be appointed by the President of the Fidesz Republic. I am very curious about exactly what results are expected of Antal Rogán in the fight against corruption. Will he strike the helicopter oligarchs with iron rigors? Would you like to bring your friends on the settlement policy to justice? Will you have Viktor Orbán's family removed on a ledger? The only thing more interesting than that is who will be the head of this authority, the president. We believe that the spirit of the authority would be best suited by Lőrinc Mészáros or István Tiborcz, although it is also considered that György Simonka, accused of fiscal fraud, may have an opportunity, has an exceptional insight into corruption. One word for you, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm asking you to know who will be the head of the anti-corruption authority. Thank you for your reply. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-10-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Latorcai, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Listening to the Member's speech, as if the Member were seeking a shadow position in the shadow government, and that is why he may have struck such a tone that casts a shadow on the House of the country. But, honourable Member, while the Hungarian Government does everything in its power to bring home the Hungarians' money [[A statement from the benches of opposition parties: And it's stolen!]] Until then, you and your fellow parties will seize all means to stop this agreement. That is why DK voted against and proud of the legislative proposals drawn up by the European Commission. Congratulations on that. Integrity shall be established in accordance with the form and procedure agreed with the European Commission. On a proposal from the President of the State Audit Office, the President of the Republic appoints the President of the State Court of Auditors for a term of six years, and I stress that the President and the Vice-President may be selected by public tender following an assessment by a so-called suitability committee, as proposed by the European Commission. If this was not appropriate, Mr President, you should have debated earlier, with the European Commission. On 23 September, a proposal to fill the positions of the suitability committee responsible for selecting members of the board of integrity was launched. The deadline for submission expired on 6 October. Honourable Congressman, You and your party want to ensure that there is no agreement between Hungary and the European Union, and that Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses do not have access to the resources they deserve. We are committed, however, to the European Commission. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the measures taken as a result of cooperation will be fully implemented. If you can't support this, at least don't interfere. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-10-44	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjáthi, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Why not use state resources to solve the heating problems of Hungarian families? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In his recent speech, Mr Sándor Szabó pointed out that our country is on the verge of a long-lost livelihood disaster. In addition to extremely high inflation, dew-weak forints and food-price explosions, the payment of households' heating bills is a major problem that threatens the greatest tragedy. It would certainly be a solution to the insulation of the homes of those in need. In most of these buildings, we have elderly compatriots without financial reserves who cannot pay the costs of the work; the government has remained in debt to this day with real help. Just as the Secretary of State, who replied on behalf of the Minister, remained in debt with the answers to the questions asked. First of all, ignoring the gravity of the problem, he blamed brutal price increases only on the Russian-Ukrainian war. He took responsibility for the situation in Russia, even though it was your government that supported them and then demanded that we withdraw them. He has provided information on the development of gas prices 20 years ago, although I note that he has never threatened a disaster like today. And you guys, from one day to the next, I'm gonna say seven times the price of gas, seven times the price of gas. Is that your help? But she also informed me that the government spent only HUF 70 billion in ten years on energy efficiency in the homes of Hungarian families; this is HUF 7 billion a year. Therefore, we ask again why the offer for the renovation of family houses and condos has been stopped? Why was the programme for the renewal of Kádár's cubes removed from the energy strategy? When will they support the energy modernisation of these buildings? Thank you very much for your answer.
u2022-10-10-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to ask you not to deny that the runaway energy prices are not responsible for the war and the Brussels sanctions policy, because even the New York Times acknowledged this, which, I think, is difficult to accuse with pro-government bias. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you are sitting in the colors of a party that practically set the country to bankruptcy in 2010; you raised energy prices 15 times and did not really care about the Hungarian families. Compared to this, we are currently struggling to ensure energy supply in Hungary, and we are waiting for the partners and support in this, and we can support the Hungarian families by virtually HUF 181 thousand per month. This is a great thing, it is unique in Europe as well. If you look at it, Hungary is the first in the EU to support families, as we give 30% of the average income as a support, while it is 20 percent for Germans who are richer than us and 6 percent for Austrians. I think it's a huge thing. In addition, support for families is extremely important for us, which is why we have launched a firewood programme, a brown coal programme, and we are constantly trying to protect families with price stops, and it is also very, very important to support and protect jobs. This has been and is being treated as a priority in the period of the epidemic, which is why we have launched a programme of HUF 200 billion for SMEs. We're working on the backup program, and if it's necessary, we're going to put in place an action plan to protect the workplace. I would like to ask the Member's support to place an increasing emphasis on these arguments which he has put forward on his fellow Members, as the MEPs on the Left supported them last week in the European Parliament. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a decision which would have effectively imposed a new sanction on Russian natural gas arriving on the pipeline. I ask for your kind cooperation with Congressman. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-10-48	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Endre Tóth, representative of Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Who gave the order to fire teachers at Kölcsey Ferenc High School? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Well, we've had this experience: they're not only threatening us, they're firing our protest teachers. What do you think you're doing? ! How can they dismiss anyone simply because he dared to raise his voice because of the humiliating salaries and unsuitable working conditions that have been affecting his profession? How can they fire excellent teachers in a situation where there are 15,000 vacancies in the education sector anyway? How can you expect to fire a single chemistry teacher at a high school in a situation where only 25 of you applied to be a chemistry teacher throughout the country? Are you out of your mind, Mr. Secretary? ! By all means, they want to bring back the threatening spirit of socialism, where if someone spoke out against the system, they found themselves on the street the next day. But this people can no longer endure this unsouled oppression. Last Wednesday, 40,000 protesters demanded that the redundant teachers be taken back, the right of strike restored, and the substantial wage arrangement. You are the only people left in Hungary who do not realize that domestic education is collapsing in front of us. But this blindness is conscious blindness. They don't want to see that there aren't enough teachers in the country. They don't want to see the plaster crumbling in public schools, the computers in the Stone Ages, no toilet paper in the bathrooms, and the state textbooks are unteachable. There's nothing in place in domestic public education, and it's your responsibility. So do it. You're going to take a direct stand on who ordered the district leaders to fire the teachers of Kölcsey and deliver threatening letters? [[12.50]] Who decided that they wouldn't even sit down with the union leaders to settle their wages? Who decided to destroy domestic education? I'm waiting for your straight answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-10-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know very well that the government is constantly negotiating with teachers' interests; we have also negotiated with trade unions, the Teachers' Faculty, and many other actors, participants in scientific life. So there's a lot of people in this meeting that's going on. You know as well as I do, honourable Member, that one of the biggest modernisation programmes has taken place in schools in recent years. If I look at only the last short period: 294 thousand desktop computers, tablets, PDA, smartphones, plus 46,000 laptops for teachers, obviously the laptop needed for everyday schoolwork and administration was handed over, precisely to make this a more modern education than before. You know as well as I do that the number of people who enter the Smart Portal daily is about 60 thousand people who open smart textbooks on the digital interface. So please do not talk about the Stone Age when, thank God, in Hungary, we try to apply the most modern techniques in everyday life, in many schools you would find digital teaching tools, which are also used. Really, I think we can be proud of the modern tools that have appeared in our schools; and that after the epidemic, interest in digital teaching materials or various digital tasks that the state has developed has survived at a relatively high level. Of course, presence education is the most important thing for us. And if you look at a textbook, there's a QR code at the end that can always go to the digital part. Nor is it appropriate, honourable Member, if you claim that anyone has been given an opinion either because you are taking part in a legitimately organised strike or because you are taking part in a demonstration peacefully, any legal disadvantage would arise because no such case has occurred. Those who took part in the strikes announced five days earlier, three days earlier, they were able to do so legally, completely calmly. The school also had the opportunity to organise babysitting. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Please don't make any claims that aren't real. [[The president's ringing again.]] What you said was real before 2010 when people were not allowed to demonstrate peacefully against something in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-52	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr Deputy Minister, for his reply. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Varga, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "How long must the municipalities last?" It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, It's been years since the local government bled out. I will give you examples only from the last few years: they have taken away their vehicle tax revenues, halved the business tax, did not give every settlement 100 percent support to cover Covid's expenses. And from what I hear, it may once again be subject to individual consideration as to the extent to which the municipality receives compensation for the energy crisis. The economic and social crisis caused by you and not by Brussels, but by your governance, will bring small and large settlements to their knees. There are cultural houses, libraries, theatres, sports facilities, swimming pools, certain wings of the mayor's offices, and local governments have to pay market-priced rent in crèches and kindergartens. The vast majority of settlements are slowly forced to turn off public lighting for the night. In many cases, they also have to close institutions that perform social tasks. Unfortunately, this is what is happening before our eyes, in Mindszent, where the elderly people are being moved out of their homes on the basis of sanctions in Brussels. I do not buy this political propaganda either by the people of Mindszent or by me, so please, Mr Deputy Minister, do not make fun of yourself if you make this reply, because we all see that in recent times the government has continuously and consciously withdrawn resources from the municipalities. But now we're in the 24th hour, and they can't tighten their belts. With all due respect, don't keep them in suspense. I have two questions: how long must the municipalities last? And what kind of help are they planning to provide, and all settlements, or just those who sit close to the fire, have unitedly received it? Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-10-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think everyone who suffers from political blindness can see that there is a war going on in our neighbourhood, and that the sanctions in Brussels that came in response to this war cause difficulties throughout Europe, not only in Hungary, but also in all other countries, not only in Hungarian cities, but in all cities across Europe, and in all governments, cause very great difficulties. The government decided to continue to maintain the assistance, and up to the average consumption, it was HUF 181 thousand that Hungarian families could receive in order to retain their overhead costs. And it has been said several times today, on a pro rata basis, that is the largest aid in all Europe, Germany and Austria, there is no such assistance on this scale. Of course, you run local governments, like what do you do there? In Ozdon, the total prize for committee members was increased from HUF 19 million to HUF 102 million. So the politicians' wage increases have been taken care of by you. Then they campaigned that every first child's family would receive a net of HUF 300,000. This was introduced, and then with the Gyurcsány model, as he did in 2006, it was quickly introduced. This is how you run the municipalities. At the same time, I can tell you that next year local government support will increase by HUF 102 billion, and we have already adopted the budget. And it is also not negligible that the own revenue that the local governments are able to stand on their own was increased by 44 percent between 14 and 21 percent, thanks to the growing Hungarian economy. Local governments' own revenues are also increasing. We will ensure that all schools continue to operate during the winter heating season, despite the fact that the price of electricity has increased five times and the price of gas has increased six times in one year. Nevertheless, schools will at least be operated at an appropriate temperature of 18-20 degrees. We will help ensure that all activities of public interest continue to take place in residential social institutions, hospitals. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And for all other beneficiaries, where there is a need for a unique solution, we will find a unique solution to ensure that those in different social homes or elsewhere do not in any way feel the penalty premium for energy, unfortunately, in the whole world, but especially in Europe. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-56	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights: what kind of investigation has he conducted since 2020 regarding the rules for the auction of the law on judicial enforcement? Do you intend to turn to the Constitutional Court about the law? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-10-10-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Commissioner, Last month, I submitted a written question to you about the changes in the implementing law that entered into force in January 2021, in particular as this has severely reduced the possibility of exercising the right of debtors, reduced the lowest price for real estate, but in particular for movable property, by 1 percent, and the value of the properties that were auctioned can be reduced three times in the course of the procedure. These changes do not serve the interests of the debtors or those seeking enforcement, and only the interests of the executives can be served here, as we have seen in the Schadl-Rogan case. Now, in this brutal livelihood crisis, when, for example, 40 auctions were made every day at the beginning of summer, the issue is particularly topical, and you have been told by legal protection organisations many years before; and there are quite a lot of unanswered submissions, which, in some cases, have been in vain for up to 13 years. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The Utca Law Association contacted you in October 2020 on this matter, and the time since then has not been enough for you to decide whether or not you are willing to go to the Constitutional Court on this matter. He didn't answer my written question, either. I would now like to ask before the Parliament's plenum that at that time he had actually conducted an investigation into the auction rules of the law on judicial enforcement. Are you planning on going to the Constitutional Court on this? What kind of inquiries are you conducting on this subject that prevent you from answering these questions two years after the submission and the completion of the submission? In general, I would also like you to inform me of what you are doing to reduce the number of outstanding submissions at the Ombudsman's office. I look forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-10-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Here you go, officer. You have the floor. [[13.00]]
u2022-10-10-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I thank you for the opportunity to express my position at the Parliament plenary this time, following a written question tabled on the same subject a month ago. At that time, I sent a detailed written reply to the Member and now, two weeks later, I can give my reply orally. Once again, I can confirm, Mr President, that the Ombudsman's inquiry on the basis of the submission of the civil rights protection organisation, which is in breach of the rules of auctioning, is currently under way. The outcome of the ongoing procedure, the possible ombudsman's action before issuing the report, cannot otherwise be made public following decades of ombudsmanship, and I am not in a position to inform you in advance. Allow me to read two articles from the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act. 28. Paragraph (1): The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights shall draw up a report on the investigation which shall contain the facts revealed, the findings and conclusions based on them. (paragraph 2): The report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is public. I would also like to quote one more article from the AJB's order on the rules of our investigations: no information can be given to the complainant either orally or in writing on matters concerning the substance of the ongoing procedure. In relation to the timeliness of my procedures, I can inform the Member that in 2021 we received 7354 requests, of which our office also closed 5995 cases. In 2019 we published 57 reports, 102 in 2020, and 147 recommendations in 21. Finally, I would like to stress that, following a detailed analysis of fundamental rights according to our best knowledge, we seek to summarise our position in a report as soon as possible in the official matters under the Law on Equal Treatment and in all other types of ombudsman. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-60	Thank you very much, officer. Ladies and gentlemen, Representative of President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, would like to ask the Prime Minister a question, "How many will receive pension allowances for Communist medals?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister has entrusted Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, who is responsible and competent on the subject, to whom he will hear the answer from Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is a great honor to present in 2012 together with Mária Wittner a proposal amending the pension law, which was adopted by the Parliament, and on the basis of which we should have withdrawn the pension bonus for communist medals. At the time, I was informed by the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance that about 1200 persons under subjective or widow's rights will receive a total of HUF 200 million a year; for example, the Red Star Medal of Merit, participated in armed combats in partisans and 17 other similar awards, even years after you took over. Unfortunately, despite the law imposing withdrawal, which I had the pleasure of presenting together with Mária Wittner, a significant part of them will still receive it to this day, since the Minister responsible for implementation, Tibor Navracsics, first completely sabotaged the law, did not cancel the pension bonus for communist medals until the deadline, and then, to my repeated request, corrected lawlessness by amending the law; they pushed the deadline. Finally, the government found that 90 percent of pension allowances for the Socialist Country and similar awards were worthy to pay them 25 years after the alleged change of regime. Dear Secretary of State, Exactly how many persons were withdrawn and in how many cases could the pension supplement have remained? How many people currently receive such a pension allowance under the right of a person or widow? What is the total amount of this budget per year? Are you planning to review such pension allowances for the living persons still affected? I look forward to a substantive answer to these questions. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-10-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Robert Répássy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-10-10-63	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, You have also sent your question to the government in writing, which means that I will not be able to recall the whole story to you in two minutes, and I promise you that you will be given a detailed answer to the written question. Indeed, it was, as you roughly recall, that a committee which the Parliament had set up by law had reviewed these pensions. This committee operated until 1 July 2013. Minister Tibor Navracsics replied to you earlier, or Bence Rétvári's then Secretary of State, that 114 cases of pension replacements had been closed and 12 cases of suit were brought against the then Ministry. So there was a legal procedure under which these pensions were reviewed. I would add that, as far as I know, but in reply to the written question, I will address a pension that would be paid on the basis of the original pension allowances, no longer, these pensions have practically been transferred after the change of regime, and a pension has essentially been laid down for the persons concerned. The explanation of this, and this was the result of this committee's assessment that, from the fact that these allowances were established before the change of regime, they were, in some cases, not based on political or ideological performance or ideological reasons at all, but, according to the assessment of the system at that time, for reasons of public interest, i.e. for some activity beneficial to society. I'll give you an example: athletes have been granted such a pension allowance. Therefore, it was justified that this committee had reviewed pension allowances one by one. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question:, Is the acquisition of Vodafone more important than the building insulation programme? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Márton Nagy, Minister for Economic Development, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, to whom Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, replied. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-10-10-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The transformation of the energy crisis and the cost reduction has put many households in a very difficult position. The annual gas consumption of an outdated family house can be up to 5,000 cubic metres, while the supported volume is only 1729 cubic metres. The needy will not be able to pay the seven-fold increase in the amount above average consumption. These households have above average consumption because their house does not meet modern energy requirements. Unfortunately, in Hungary, the poorer you are, the more energy you waste, and the more difficult and unsustainable you will find yourself in. The government must act urgently. Firstly, social assistance should be granted to those who cannot pay for increased energy prices, whether heated by gas or by wood. I know you're afraid of need-based subsidies, but now you're gonna have to rise above that because you're risking people freezing in their own homes. The real, long-term and sustainable reduction of electricity can be achieved through the energy renovation of buildings. The insulation, the replacement of windows and the modernisation of the heating system can reduce the energy demand and costs of buildings by up to 50-85 percent. A state resource of HUF 300 billion per year would allow the renovation of 100,000 apartments, and 420,000 tons of CO2 could be avoided, since it is not an issue of much better air for our settlements. The LMP has been demanding it for years, but it hasn't started such a program. By the way, they had 350 billion forints on Vodafone. Dear Secretary of State, Wouldn't it be a more important goal in the midst of the energy crisis to start the building insulation program instead of buying Vodafone, which would allow the insulation of 100,000 apartments? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-10-10-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-10-10-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Two quick answers to two questions. The primary objective of the post-2010 governments is to significantly increase the share of Hungarian ownership in sectors of national strategic importance and, if possible, to a majority level. [[13.10]] This government objective has now been achieved in the banking sector, in the energy and media sector. Now, with the acquisition of Vodafone, this national strategy goal can also be realised in the telecommunications market, and a Hungarian state ownership company can become a major player. By the way, maybe once in a government cycle, if there's an opportunity like buying Vodafone now. This was also made possible by the performances of the Hungarian economy last year. Another, but very important issue, and we agree perfectly on that is home renovation and energy modernisation. With the support of home renovation, the government has already contributed to significant energy modernisation. Up until October 6, 22nd, 200,000 families received home renovation support, with a total amount of HUF 400 million. In the framework of the "Home Gay" programme, which had the same purpose, support of more than HUF 70 billion supported the energy efficiency investments of 300,000 families. We support the construction of residential solar systems and the modernisation of heating with a HUF 200 billion programme, which helped tens of thousands of families below average income. From the end of November, the opportunity for the residential solar program will open again. So the government also considers the goal that you consider important, and we act accordingly. If you guys finally give up the penalty [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] With the support of policy, then, of course, other EU programmes will be available. Thank you for your question and your patience, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-10-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question about the benefits of the Firewood programme? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor. Minister is present in person to reply.
u2022-10-10-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The war between Ukraine and Russia was a local war, but shipments of weapons from the West, economic sanctions, have turned it into a global war. Energy prices and inflation are skyrocketing because of the sanctions imposed by Brussels. The global economy is at risk of a decline, while the European economy is at risk of collapse. We can say that the elite in Brussels has shot the European economy in the leg, which has a full and very large impact on the population of our country, and that is not what Brussels has promised. The economic problems and the drastic increase in energy prices were clearly caused by sanctions imposed by Brussels. Our national government is doing everything it can to protect our countrymen. The government provides families with six types of help in the fight against inflation: reduced overhead to average consumption, petrol stop, food stop, interest stop, brown coal program, firewood program. [[Intercom from opposition lines: Tell me more.]] Due to the sanctions imposed by Brussels and the negative effects of the Russian-Ukrainian war, energy prices have increased many times and an energy crisis has developed. While Western governments are preparing their population to stop heating and to produce self-made heaters from flower pots and candles, the government of our country is doing everything it can to ensure that our families have the right heating. [[Intercom from opposition lines: Well, yeah!]] The aim of the firewood program is to provide energy needs for Hungarian families without firewood during the winter, thus serving the needs of the population. Therefore, I respectfully ask Minister what we know about the benefits of the firewood programme at present. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-10-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from the Minister himself. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The answer to your question is that it means safety, affordable prices and renewable resources, and it is available in sufficient quantities for everyone who has the possibility of heating with wood. I can also say that the additional demand for increased demand for the population is being met steadily, as today we have relocated not only the workers, the lumberjacks, not only the machines, the tools, but also the wood itself, as 23,500 cubic metres of wood has been launched on the road or on the railway to reach the places where the increased demand for the population exists. As you said, my fellow Member, the war and EU sanctions that have failed have led to a long-awaited energy crisis and high inflation, which has caused the government to declare an energy hazard in Hungary. The drastic increase in energy prices was clearly triggered by sanctions. Since then, it has been found that the sanctions imposed are more damaging to Europe than to Russia. If sanctions were lifted, prices would fall drastically and inflation could halv. In parallel with energy uncertainties, the people's instinct to live has led to unprecedented, experienced demand for firewood. The primary objective of the government's firewood programme is to ensure that the rural population is supplied with fuel-maximum fuel at a maximum price. The population that has used wood burning has already started to obtain winter fuel for the heating period in spring and summer, even for later seasons. As a result of the decrease in stocks, the increase in demand and production material costs, the price of firewood also started to rise. The primary objective of the government was to provide citizens with an option at affordable prices to partially or fully replace gas and electric heating solutions, thereby helping to reduce additional expenditure forced by rising energy prices. Thank you for asking. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-10-72	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear House, Fellow Members! MEP László Földi, representative of KDNP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. What does the Hungarian Government do for job protection and job creation? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer you. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, we live in times when we need these two feelings: the hope of the future and the joy of celebration. In Cegléd we had a reason for the celebration last week: we handed over Infineon Technologies Cegléd Kft. a complex of buildings for the production of new high-performance semiconductor modules. In addition to the unexpected events of recent years, it is important for each country to have a strategic approach in the face of new challenges, and for companies to respond to the challenges, not with austerity, cuts, but with investments, development and increasing exports. In today's world, we need economic operators who cooperate with Hungary in the long term for interests, creating a harmony of values. In addition to the support of the Hungarian government, they can find their calculations here and expand and develop. Infineon is one of those companies. Thanks to all the actors who have made it possible to create 275 new jobs in the framework of the project that has just been completed. As a Member of the Parliament of Cegléd and its region, I think it is very important that we political decision-makers in this accelerating world do not miss the goal. And the goal is to have a job for everyone who can work and wants to work. This is a simple, but very difficult, goal, but we have reason to feel successful. However, due to the war and the failed sanctions given to it in Brussels, the Hungarian nation is facing another difficult situation. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the Hungarian Government is doing to protect jobs and create jobs. I look forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[13.20]]
u2022-10-10-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the secretary of state. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to congratulate the Member and the people living in Cegléd and the region on the transfer of such a large investment last week, with which practically 275 new jobs have been created. Congressman, who has been a mayor in public life since practically the change of regime and has been re-elected for the fourth time, you know exactly how important this is, because there have been times when jobs weren't so natural. Unemployment continued to rise between 2002 and 2010, with almost 12 percent in early 2010 and the government's goal of creating one million jobs in ten years was a huge achievement, with 3.5 percent unemployment in 2022 and 4.7 million people working in the summer. This is some incredible achievement! During the epidemic, and now, during the war, we hope that by protecting jobs, we will effectively manage to remain a local exception in a global and continental recession environment. This is why we are launching programmes to help small and medium-sized enterprises, this 200 billion HUF programme for small and medium-sized enterprises with production and energy intensity, we are working on a factory rescue programme and, if necessary, we will launch a new job protection action plan. I think that the new plant reflects the success of Hungarian economic policy. The EUR 100 million investment will enable the production of high-performance semiconductor modules, which will be integrated into the inverters of electric and hybrid vehicles. I would like to ask Mr Congressman and the KDNP fraction [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] further support for these objectives. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-10-76	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. What is the national consultation on sanctions if the Orbán government has accepted the eighth penalty? It's an address. Honourable Member, I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes will answer you. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Before I say the question, I would like to say half a sentence to Congressman Mihálffy. He said George Soros is the dollar daddy. Well, the dollar daddy in the movie doesn't have an iron, so either George Soros is a broken-down poor man or we should watch the movie. And now the question. Dear House, The Orbán government plays a strange and rather embarrassing game with the Hungarians. There is no parliamentary speech where they would not tell them how harmful the economic sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia are, the West is shooting itself in the leg, the Russians are invincible and they are not even affected by the many economic sanctions. I wonder why the Russian economy is in recession, the national total product of which is a fraction of the total national product of the EU Member States! You will quickly add that since sanctions are harmful, they do not support this. The problem is that Viktor Orbán and the Hungarian government voted in favour of all the sanctions, including the last one, the eighth one. Then comes the explanation that it was the oil that had to be voted for, to have energy security here, so that it was possible to achieve the exception of the oil price cap mechanism to the pipeline mode or, in emergency situations, the maritime transport of the energy that caused it, in the event of its inability to do so. They are not telling the truth either, of course, because the European Union is not planning to introduce a price cap in pipeline transport, and you voted for the sanction in order to open the EU's money bag. If you think the sanctions are harmful to Hungary, then why did Viktor Orbán vote for them and how much? If they are indeed harmful and were voted by Viktor Orbán, did the Prime Minister consciously, with premeditated intent, cause harm to Hungary? If you want to make a national consultation waste billions of dollars saying that sanctions are harmful, the Hungarian electorate will condemn Viktor Orbán and his government. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-10-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-10-10-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Old beliefs are hard to change, old sin has a long shadow, that's what I remembered when I listened to you. You have always had problems with people's opinions and when a political force, acting democratically, asks for people's opinions. It is no wonder that as a representative of the anti-democratic left, and as a member of a political force that drowned peaceful and democratic protests in 2006 with rubber bullets and then launched an amazing campaign against university students, innocent protesters, elderly fellow citizens [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] So if you're a member of such a political force... I have listened to you, I know the truth hurts, but please, we are obliged to listen to each other under democratic parliamentary rules. So, no wonder with such a history, with such anti-democratic traditions, you are attacking one of the most democratic institutions of Hungarian politics, the national consultation. National consultation is a European and democratic project, and I know it's weird, but we ask people what they think. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Goebbelsi method.]] I am interested in what they think, and we are trying to establish points of agreement, because we want to represent them both in Hungary and in Europe. Moreover, this is an innovative thing, first, no one in Europe will ask their citizens about sanctions policy except for us. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Only Nazi Germany.]] , Hungary also sets an example in this regard. If you were right, or if we had voted in favour of the sanctions in the way Brussels wanted, then there would be no Russian oil, there would be a price cap on the gas, there would be no gas, and the European Union would be discussing the boycott of nuclear power. We protect Hungary's peace and security. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-10-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman László György Lukács, leader of the Jobbik Group, would you like to ask the Minister for Construction and Investment:, will you consider the interests of the Debrecen during the construction of the Chinese CATL battery plant? It's an address. Mr President, Mr President of the Group, by answering the question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who, at his request, will be answered by Secretary of State Azbei Tristan. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The world's largest battery manufacturer, Chinese CATL, builds a factory in Debrecen. From the Hungarian point of view, too, it is a large investment that creates 221 hectares and 9 thousand jobs. Most concerns were raised about the need for water in the factory. The investment seems to endanger the city's water supply, as it is estimated that it would use at least one third of Debrecen's daily water supply and will generate significant waste water output. However, there is another reading of the establishment of the factory. Previously, Debrecen was at the forefront of high-quality IT and health investments, of which at least 10-15 investments are currently under way. Thus, the city is in the fortunate position that there is no shortage of highly qualified workers, not assembly plants, but high added value investments. And many people also find it worrying that with the Chinese investment, thousands of Chinese can arrive in Hungary because of the factory, who can easily change the cultural image of the Civic City. Dear Secretary of State, So there are many question marks around the investment, which the government should reassurely clarify. So I expect you to answer the following questions about the concerns surrounding the Debrecen battery plant: will you consult the citizens of the city widely? The water supply and water supply of the settlement will be safe, and how do you think we can minimize the mass arrival of Chinese workers in the city? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-10-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The answer, as I said, will be from Secretary of State Azbei Tristan. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.30]]
u2022-10-10-83	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, You ask that you take into account the interests of the Debrecen during the construction of the battery plant. The short answer is that yes, not only the people of Debrecen, but the population of the whole country, because it is indeed a historic investment worth HUF 3000 billion, which creates 9 thousand jobs directly in the city. At the same time, it is a legitimate question and it is self-evident that the Debrecen are interested in how this will affect their environment, their lives, with the undisputed effects of economic development and job creation. In this respect, it is important to have a clear and honest speech, so I would like to say that in Hungary, for each state-supported investment, the acquisition of uniform environmental requirements and permits is subject to very strict requirements. Accordingly, the full environmental documentation of the CATL investment will be made public and the Government Office will hold a public information forum involving all relevant administrative authorities and the applicant. May I also remind the Member that investments in Hungary must comply with both domestic and EU environmental standards. As for the city's water supply, as far as we know, there is no cause for concern here, as the increased water demand in Debrecen's industrial areas remains less than the daily supply of water in the future. At the same time, the monitoring of this will be guaranteed and guaranteed by regular official controls in addition to the legislation. The government and the city's management are ready to do everything in their power to ensure that Hungarians have the highest possible number of employees in the factory. More than 72 thousand students are currently studying in Debrecen, and the number of students is constantly increasing in the field of economic-specific training from 2015. This may give rise to sufficient optimism about the large number of employees in this factory. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-10-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:, What are the tasks of the Hungarian Treasury in connection with the war emergency? It's an address. Honourable Member, the Secretary of State, András Tállai, will answer you. You have the floor, please.
u2022-10-10-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In my immediate question entitled "Double Standard in the Publicity" on 13 June 2022, I complained that the annual budget reports of the ministries for the previous government cycle were not made, except for a few exceptions, as they are not in the public interest data of kormany.hu. Thus, the wallets did not fulfil the obligations set out in the info law. In his reply, Deputy Minister András Tállai informed me that these reports can be requested from the Hungarian Treasury at any time under the information law. I did that, on 4 August I turned to the Hungarian Treasury with a request for data in the public interest. In this cost-saving and time-saving way, I asked for the electronic download and collection of the reports from the KGR-K11 system operated by the Hungarian State Treasury, which, based on IT opinions, will take up to 2-3 hours. In its reply, sent on 29 August and 27 September 2022, the Hungarian State Treasury informed that the deadline for my request for data in the public interest was extended by 45 days, since compliance with the deadline would jeopardise the timely performance of its tasks under the Emergency Government Decree. I ask with great respect the Secretary of State's reply on the tasks of the Hungarian Treasury in relation to the war emergency, which will not allow 10 wallets until 2018-2021, the total of 40 reports in Excel form, to be transmitted to me by e-mail, let's say. In its response, please also take account of the fact that, in order to reach an early agreement with the EU, they have just been forced to relax on the rules for requesting data in the public interest. I trust that this will happen. Thank you. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2022-10-10-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, While there is a war going on next door, they are bombing right now, unfortunately, and while all of Europe is debating whether sanctions are needed or not, the eighth need or not to destroy Europe is to sanction or not, and otherwise there is an energy crisis all over Europe, everyone is struggling with how they can survive this difficult period, the most important thing for you is what the Treasury has to do and why it has exercised its right to extend to you twice 45 days of public interest data request. It is an important question, I acknowledge it, but you also need to know, and you know very well that this ministerial background institution, the Hungarian Treasury, is working on it right now, instead of asking for your data in the public interest, that tomorrow [[Sic!]] two and a half million pensioners receive the pension supplement and receive the pension premium. By the way, the Treasury is working to ensure that public employees receive their wages in time, or that EU proposals are in order, that they are properly accounted for and allocated. Knowing your biography, you didn't work in a ministry, background institution, state administration, but ex-producer and director congratulations, former party director. I suggest that you know the law and get to know the work of these institutions. Then he may not use the public of Parliament in such difficult times for such questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side. Dr. István Apáti: Oh, my God! Other interventions by representatives of our country, including: What answer was that?]]
u2022-10-10-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Zsolt Becsó, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office what results do the Active Hungary Programme have at national level and what is to be expected in relation to its continuation? It's an address. Honourable Member, you will hear the answer from Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Thank you very much. You have the floor, please.
u2022-10-10-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, One of the government's commitments is to make Hungary one of the five most livable countries of the European Union by 2030. In order to achieve this objective, we find, inter alia, education, health and the development of the economy. This is also the purpose of extraordinary initiatives such as the "Active Hungary" programme, which has played an important role in the resolution of the feeling of desperation caused by the corona virus epidemic, and helps families, friends and travelers to learn about Hungary with its publications and website. One of the tools for maintaining a unified Hungarian national cohesion is to get to know our country, the landscape units and the people living there, as this creates a kind of connection to the region and the inhabitants. Beyond a pandemic and the current shadow of the war, the solidarity of Hungarians and the love of the country are of paramount importance. I would like to thank Parliamentary Secretary Máriusz Révész and his colleagues for their sacrifices, which are being carried out through the Programme "Active Hungary" for, among other things, the tourism recovery of Hungary. Thanks to the program, it was possible to install and park the Somoskő hiking center and forest school in my constituency, for which the government provided HUF 34 million. In addition, they created the app called the Digital Traveler, in which the Novohrad-Nógrád Geopark was also located, which, in the company of King László Szent, will guide you through our national shrine of Mátraverebély-Szentkút, presenting its geological, religious and historical wonders. Dear Secretary of State, In relation to what has been said, I would like to ask what results are achieved at the national level by the programme "Active Hungary" and what is expected in relation to their continuation. I'm waiting for your answer. [[13.40]]
u2022-10-10-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we have important goals in terms of vitality. And what makes life possible? If Hungary is a normal and healthy place, there are serious government efforts in both respects, and there is also a chance that these goals will be met. He asked what the results of the programme "Active Hungary" have been, which is indeed primarily praises the work of Prime Minister Márius Révész. I'm trying to give you some specifics, some data. One of the flagships of this program is the "Active settlement" programme, which supports small and medium-sized investments to increase the active lifestyle of a settlement or region. In addition to the development of 100 biking parks, 26 running circles, 43 climbing rooms, 12 skate park, 8 ski courses and 13 ice rinks were developed. In 2021 there were 13 ice rinks, 11 winners in 2022. The development of bicycle infrastructure is a very important element of the programme. Since 2010, more than 1930 kilometers of bicycle paths have been built or renewed, the transfer of the Tisza lake bicycle bridges has been completed, the Budapest-Szentendre bicycle route has been renovated, the Budapest-Dunakes bicycle route has been completed, and this way the Danube turn can be cycled on at least one side, and in August 2022 we handed over the Budapest-Balaton bicycle route. An important element of the program is the development of tourist houses, the development of small railway stations, the program mentioned by you, and the program "Vándor Camp" and the "Digital Migratory" program, which is aimed at younger generations, and this is only a fraction of the total programme. Since the voters have authorized us, the program will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:, The luxury of one student and the freezing of the other in Debrecen? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. Congressman Zoltán Varga has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Well, hang on: Debrecen is also hit by the Orbán government, by the crisis caused by your government, as is the second largest city in the country, with severe losses caused by the regime; it changes here, too, people's daily lives, their normal lives, as well as in a city of opposition. Of course, the respected Fidesz elite, Mr. Secretary of State, is making sure that they also get away with the consequences of the crisis in Debrecen, and that the simpler people suffer all they want. One good example is that while the DSZC, the Debrecen Vocational Training Centre in Debrecen, is about to close several schools, it is likely that it will not be able to secure even the temperature of 18 degrees in the institutions, because there is no money for heating, the luxury International School of Debrecen will be protected from brutally loosed utilities. It is important to know that the international school was built with state money, with more than HUF 4 billion, and to date, the municipality of Debrecen supports it with hundreds of millions of forints a year, i.e. 800 million forints this year in order to make this school work. Due to the measured tuition fee of up to HUF 5 million each year, only the rich elite, the fidesz politicians and the children of the fidesz oligarchs can go to this school, but this school will continue to receive all the support, neither the overhead nor the inflation in Orbán. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We find it shameful that on one side there is a school-association with all the associated complications, transport, restructuring of family programs, morning-to-south education, shortening classes, and this could be classified for an infinity, while on the other side there is a professional, fidesz luxury, the untouchable comfort, just because the children of wealthy parents or fidesz oligarchs go there. I ask the Secretary of State what they intend to do to save the average schools in Debrecen in order to reduce the costs, and he considers this kind of shameful discrimination to be morally acceptable. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-10-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your second-to-last sentence was what the government wanted to do to protect the cost reduction, while you also said not so long ago, two years ago, that the reduction in the rent was a false propaganda. Are you lying propaganda or do you have to protect it? You say that sanctions work, and then you stand up here, and you say that the problem is not only in Debrecen, but in all the countries of Europe, how schools are heated. We're going to heat up every school this winter, at least 18 or 20 degrees. [[Zoltán Varga: But they don't heat it up! That's not true!]] so that all students can go to school safely, study there safely, this year's winter teaching won't depend on it. [[Zoltán Varga: They're bringing together eight schools in Debrecen!]] It's just that you guys are... I do not understand how you can once say that you feel the difficulty in school is that there is a high energy price and, besides that, you say that sanctions are working and that they are needed, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Varga: I'm talking about the International School in Debrecen! The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, the Shadow Prime Minister of your shadow government says that there are very strong and tough sanctions to stop, you mean Putin, and you're not satisfied with the sanctions so far. He is pleased that serious steps have been taken, but they are not sufficient, which means that we must actually take further steps to ensure that your Shadow Prime Minister says. In fact, he even says that we will not back down, we will also vote for the strictest sanctions against Russia. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, At one moment, they are demanding even more stringent energy sanctions against Russia, and on the other hand, when they see the consequences of this, because they come to your host hour, because they are concerned that they have reorganized the training, there are places where they are reorganizing it, that they are not in four sites, but in three sites, so that they can heat up three sites and guarantee a temperature of 18-20 degrees, at least that much, because they can, then you are surprised to see what is there. Well, honourable Member, I would like to bring you a moment of recognition: you are going to your host hour to have high energy prices, because you are sitting there in the shadow government among yourselves, and you are saying how good these sanctions are, Madam Shadow Prime Minister, that you should demand more in Brussels, that there is a connection between the two. That's why we say [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that they should be reviewed, which is why we have asked Hungary for an exemption from energy sanctions effectively, but you would never have done that. Well, then it would be a much harder situation for all Hungarian schools! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman István Apáti, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:. Are you willing to support the Hungarian people's self-sufficiency efforts? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Minister will answer you personally. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-97	Mr President, Dear Minister, Without exaggeration, it can be said that the war situation in Ukraine directly affecting the security of food supply, the strengthening of inflation, the successive historical depths of the forint, the significant increase in fuel prices and extreme weather conditions have caused unexperienced conditions in Hungary and across the continent for 70 years. Due to Hungary's good agricultural conditions, it would probably be in a slightly more favourable position compared to other countries on the continent, but at the same time it is essential, if you will, to have a fundamental national security interest in the smallest farm in the country, and a significant strengthening of micro-economy. Allow me to quote you from an analysis of KSH in 2020: in 2000, 3 percent of farmers used less than 1 hectare of agricultural land, and this figure fell to less than 1 percent in 2016 in 16 years. In the eighties and nineties, but even in the second half of the nineties, the present image of the Hungarian village is not comparable: there is a huge decline, and this is particularly in the area of livestock farming. For this reason, at least three important areas could be supported in the area of residential property, in the neighbourhood of family houses, in the strictest, narrowest sense of the word, the home economy: one in reducing administrative burdens, the other in direct nature benefits and financial support, and the contribution to the organisation of related service activities. [[13.50]] Dear Minister, Do you agree that every forint or eurocent invested in this will be paid many times, and that basic food safety care will be significantly improved, that if these Hungarians are significantly assisted, they will lead people back on the path of the smallest farm on the farm? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-10-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I must say that the answer to all your questions is yes. In fact, I say this in a way that, if you look at it in a more detailed context, yes, in agriculture you need all the hands you need. When he listed the difficulties, the war, the sanctions, the energy threat, the historical drought because with him the picture is complete, then in these difficulties, I ask that we see the chance, the hope that all the questions that are being pressed will be put at the heart of people's thinking, because it is true that we are going down to the grocery store today and there is food, it is a fantastic thing, but it has to be worked very hard. As a result of urbanization, people were very separated from reality, from the reality of the countryside. In order to ensure self-sufficiency for ourselves, it is very much in the background. What is the responsibility of the current government to reverse this? It is no coincidence that we launched small-scale applications with immediate effect, the EUR 15,000 in order to cultivate the gardens so that they could bring the surplus to the market, so we supported the municipalities to create production markets with HUF 100 million to meet the producer and the buyer. The concept of handicraft products, the priority of domestic products are all government work and engagement, with which we draw attention to the infinite importance of cultivating the garden and ensuring our self-sufficiency. The cultivation of closed gardens is all like this, the social grounding of municipalities is all like this to bring them close to reality. But if I go a little further, the school garden program is to show the children how an onion is made, how it is produced, to tie the child to reality. It must bring people together in full and in detail that self-sufficiency is important and that the security of domestic food is above all. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-10-100	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Don't press for peace in Ukraine alone, make peace with the educator society as well. It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-101	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, For 12 years, you've been throwing a few crumbs in front of the teachers, trying to tell them that each one is a two-pound wager. Looks like they've had enough of this. They were tired of not being able to make a living teaching physics as a history teacher, of not only being burdened by them but also by their students, and of being deprived of the possibility of protest, and of being seen by the parents of the students. You celebrated the Golden Bull as the basis for our constitutional development, including the ius restendi, but the civil disobedience of teachers was reprimanded 800 years later. Five excellent teachers were fired from Kölcsey High School in Budapest, including the only chemistry teacher at the school, saying that their action deprived students of their right to study. Chemistry classes have been canceled since then; this does not seem to violate the right to study. At Szent István High School, the head of the school district gave the last warning to three teachers who were once students of the school. The Deputy Director of Herman Ottó High School in Miskolc was replaced, even though he did not refuse the job, but expressed his agreement with the actions of his colleagues. With all this, they poured not oil, but gunpowder directly on the fire. On Wednesday, World Education Day, last week, in many schools in Budapest, teachers went on strike or continued civil disobedience. They joined them as students, parents, creating a huge chain of living, and then taking over the Margaret Bridge. Other cities joined and protested, Győr, Sopron, Veszprém, Pécs, Szeged and Miskolc. You've miscalculated as Russian President Putin, you've started a war that you can't win because you have no education, but you don't have teachers. When are you going to make peace? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of DK, MSZP and Momentum.]]
u2022-10-10-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We've always been on the side of educators, but let me ask you a riddle. I'm quoting someone. Who's the quote from? Please, listen. To the teachers, someone said: "The demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the wallet is not dissuaded by the original intention of the demonstration. Who sent this message to the teachers? Your Secretary of State for Education, your shadow minister, Gergely Arató. I quote once again what you said to the teachers, who now demand peace, agreement, negotiation, when you were on the government, said in 2006: "The demonstration is not a good answer to the problems, and the demonstration does not dissuade you from your original intention. They did good, because at least they didn't have a horse-riding attack and rubber bullets and stuff that they did on the streets against others. You're talking about peace and social dialogue when you say, white and black, that anyone can protest anywhere, for a moment, that doesn't dissuade you, and they're moving on the same way? And what did you call the wage cuts? This is also an excellent quote from him:, The intention is not to reduce costs, but to make better, more efficient use of available funds. So if you think a teacher makes less money, it's just more efficient use of money. When we raised 50 percent of our wages, you say it's crumbs. I think this is a tangible step forward. The 10 percent that was this year will be next year and after the next year, those are really items to be increased, we think so, but another question is that we are constantly coordinating with the teachers, we are not saying insulting expressions about them, and you said such things as not to complain about their decline in salaries, because it's only more efficient use of money, and that anyone can protest, it doesn't distract you from their intentions at all. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Talk to each other. Look in the mirror. You will not find such an insulting statement from anyone in the past, because we would like to raise our wages, we consider the demands of teachers to be justified. We are working to ensure that if the penalty surcharges are no longer paid, that cost can finally be spent on educator wage increases and EU funds, and that the work of teachers is appreciated. We're not talking like you did when you were on the wheel. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-10-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! That concludes the questions. We now move on to questions and answers of the instant Question Time. Dear House, Fellow Members! Congressman Zoltán Komáromi, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "What do you think you're doing? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári was authorised to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Congressman Zoltán Komáromi has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-105	Dear Secretary of State, A week ago, we've been reading in the press about the nearly 90-page government presentation you've compiled and then weirdly leaked. Two things in the story caught me, a sentence that tells me of an absurd government mindset, if I quote exactly what appeared in the press. The BM does not consider it necessary to consult society on plans for the transformation of health care, because there is a high public interest in its urgent adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The second is the statement by the President of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which shows that the bill on the transformation of health care has not been received by MOK to this day, and has not taken part in the preparation of the bill, despite previous promises of state secretary and minister. This statement also shows that, according to MOK, certain parts of the proposal go against their previous agreement with the Prime Minister. [[14.00]] It is no coincidence that to date the proposal has not been seen by a single professional organisation, a patient organisation, a policy actor. I am not even sure that you know him, either, because then he could not have been left with such incomprehensible, unprofessional and unacceptable things as the legislation of the hospital visitation order, the fact that the employer of those working in the state hospital will be a county hospital, their contract will be for a changing establishment, and that is exactly what broke the guarantee after the forced transfer of the Service Act, which has resulted in a number of health professionals leaving the state health system. They do not want to fill the empty GP districts that multiply year after year, but they want to redefine the boundaries, nationalise the remaining municipal offices, grind them into the hospital structure that is bleeding from millions of wounds. Tell me, Secretary of State, why are you keeping secrets, and why, in particular, do you think that without the support of patients and the profession, such a major change can be introduced? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-10-10-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, let us be clear that such a presentation has not been made before the government; such an agenda is not on the government's agenda, so what you have been talking about, such matters have not been discussed by the government. At the same time, it is important for all of us to really improve the functioning of health care. The surplus of 233 billion forints is what health care can manage compared to previous years. This has already been a significant step forward, and I believe that we have taken a better step than you did before 2010, because it was your great innovation, which Ferenc Gyurcsány stood up here in Parliament a few months ago to introduce a visitation fee, paid health care, hospital daily allowance, and he also personally campaigned for it. The Hungarian people, with the votes of about three million people or millions of people, wiped this out in a referendum. That's all you've had to do with the renewal of health care. That period was not about negotiations, so it was not after the agreement with the Chamber and the MESZK that these decisions were made, honourable Member, but was taken as a dictator in Hungarian health care, and the Hungarian people did not accept it. It is important for us to negotiate, which is why this has happened in the past, which is why you know that what was proposed by the Chamber has been accepted by the government and introduced by law. However, it is extremely dangerous, what you and Imre László said a few months ago, and when Imre László said that he would close 45 percent of the hospitals, you said that you might not even be so necessary; this is not a position specifically agreed with the profession, but it is extremely dangerous for people. What I can tell you is that, of course, we will be working to reduce waiting lists so that we can continue the wage increase in the next year, as we did in the previous years in health care, so that patients can recover in the most modern conditions. What is a good tool for this is the instruments that the government has already supported and will continue to support, but I ask everyone not to intimidate me with things that have not reached the level of government decision, not even on the government's agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-10-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Zoltán Komáromi. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-109	Secretary of State, I didn't say anything about an approved government proposal, I said something about a government referral, and no one denied it. [[Bence Rétvári: Good.]] However, as responsible for the health care of Klára Dobrev's shadow government, I would like to clarify that health care does not need to be pointed back and explained, but to be cured. In public health, the conditions and success of the medicine have deteriorated a great deal during your time. In 2010 there were 176 unfilled GP practices, now 686. The number of unfits has increased from 180,000 to 900,000. The system is gonna be short of 30,000 health professionals. Hospital death increased from 3.2 percent in 2010 to 3.7 percent in ten years, an increase of 5,000. According to an article published today, Mr Péter Takács wants to solve the problem of ever longer surgical waiting lists by means of accounting, administrative and motivation. Hungary's responsible government will only be able to solve such a set of problems as that of health, with full consensus and effective involvement of the actors, secrecy and arrogance in this case will not bring any results. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-10-10-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Beautiful words of shadow minister, but you know, you don't forget. When the Eger hospital was privatized to HospInvest, I remember that security guards went there with the leaders of the privatized company to take over. You're talking about a full consensus here. How do you talk about a complete consensus when they actually used physical violence to turn the state public hospital into a private hospital? ! The Eger people went there and resisted. You sent security guards to get your business partners in. And after that, you stand up here in Parliament and tell me that the shadow government and the shadow minister have a programme of consensus? Are security guards the consensus for you? And the swordsmanship at Astoria? That's the consensus? Is that what you think? ! They say such nice words here, that you really do have tears in your eyes. Only when they were steering, tears of tear gas burst into the eyes of people who didn't like your government and went out peacefully to demonstrate it. This is not, of course, the area of health. We also have important tasks there, I don't doubt, and the shortcut of waiting lists is one of our most important tasks. We have spent 58 billion forints on this in recent years. This must also be further increased, and indeed all means must be used to make sure that the waiting lists are indeed as short as possible, because that is what may be bothering people the most in health care right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-10-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "What about our teachers?" It's an address. Dear Minister, I ask you that Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to answer the question because of his absence.
u2022-10-10-113	Yes, Mr. President. Yes!
u2022-10-10-114	Thank you very much. You have the floor, please.
u2022-10-10-115	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, Tens of thousands of teachers' unions, students and parents wish to settle the wages of teachers, with other legitimate and equitable demands. You set your goal to ensure that by 2027 teachers' wages reach 80% of the average salary. I would like to say, Mr Secretary of State, that this is a bad objective; it costs a lot of money professionally, but it does not bring the result that is expected of it. Don't set that goal. And since there is, in my view, the possibility and duty of proposing to the opposition, I am telling you that the average salary of the OECD Member States should be regarded as a target. You missed the source earlier in one of the speeches. I would like to name it: this is the most accepted international standard in our profession, education at the latest published by Glance in 2020 by the OECD. [[Bence Rétvári: He appeared now.]] It costs 350 billion HUF to ensure that Hungarian teachers can be satisfied with their salary in the long term. However, you make this dependent on Brussels negotiations. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, why do you make a teacher's wage increase dependent on the negotiations in Brussels. I would also like to ask you how much you need at this trial and what you would use in education the money you wish to bring, which I wish you luck and a good nervous system. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2022-10-10-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can choose many ways to compare the rate of the teacher's wage increase; we can compare it to this, too. There are countries in which pedagogue wages are closer to graduate average wages, there are very few OECD countries where they would be above and usually somewhere in that area. We saw this 80 percent first come up in the EU negotiations, precisely on the part of the Union. They were the ones who suggested this, but for us, everything is good, every calculation is good, which increases the wages of teachers. That is why we have said that the Union expects such an environment that they would like to measure to 80 per cent of the average salary, that they would like to reach, to reach 27 per cent, and thus allow us to spend our own EU resources on what we consider to be important, namely, to raise the wages of teachers, we said that if that is the price, then so be it. Just like we did with the asset statement. If they said that the Hungarian Parliament's declaration was not good, then we took over the European Parliament. Now the European Parliament is no good, we'll change it back to here if we have to. [[14.10]] So we are trying our best to make sure that our country can use its own resources. If you don't like it, this kind of approach, we will interpret it to the officials of the European Union who have said that they can cooperate in such a construction, but this, I think, is a secondary debate. The primary debate is that the wages of many people have indeed increased more than the wages of teachers, in the public sector, and also in the private sector, prices are rising, and everyone is experiencing this. It's about raising the wages of teachers. We would like to spend more on this from national sources, 86 billion have already been accepted, and we would like to increase this. We can do this if sanctions end early and we can also provide EU funds for this if the bureaucrats of the Union finally do not prevent it. But I'm sure you have some friends who work there, in Brussels, as Members of the European Parliament, you could also ask them not to hinder this process, but to help. The point is, we can raise it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-10-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman István Hiller. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-119	Yes, I have friends, even in Hungary. They, you know what they say, Mr. Secretary? That you are actually discussing five educational projects in Brussels. I'll list it for you, please confirm. Strengthening the careers of teachers working in deficiency areas, preventing early school leaving; third, developing basic skills and key competences; fourth, making the teaching career more attractive; and fifth, a new training system project. You know what? These are, in themselves, the right objectives, but this is not a comprehensive wage increase. It's not the source of that. It's a supplemental allowance. The settlement of the wages of Hungarian teachers must be settled from the central budget of the Hungarian state. These, which you are discussing in Brussels, are the right goals, but this is not going to be the teacher's wage arrangement. It's a fraction of that, a start-up amount. Please confirm that these projects are being discussed, and that this is an additional set of benefits that you want to devote to educators. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-10-10-120	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Minister, the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-121	Thank you very much for the floor. I'd be happy to give you these details, Congressman. On the one hand, we do not need any internal information about what we are discussing, as we have put out the main priorities for the. Anyone on the Internet has been reading this for months, and there are the main objectives of what we would use these resources for. So let's get everyone in the search engine, check it out, put it out, public. As a matter of fact, where and how it can be raised: indeed, we too see that the budget must obviously take a significant part here. I will also forward your question to the Brussels negotiators there, that is to say the Brusselsers. You said that it is not only in areas where the disadvantaged are higher among the students, because, as I said, we are continuing this negotiation, if I wanted to put it nicely, they are playing this game with us, if I wanted to put it a little less kindly, that sometimes there are more and more ideas, that the Union would only pay part of the teacher's wage increase there, let us say, not in Budapest, but in a more disadvantaged region. But since it is important for us to raise the wages of teachers and then pay the rural part more from EU sources, and even from Hungarian sources in Budapest, we are also involved in this. We're up for anything. I'm glad you grounded the ball because I was able to tell you that for a small million and one possibility, we said that we were involved in anything, any construction, any mix-up, we could just turn our own resources into educators' wages and not hold them back in Brussels. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-10-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Dávid Bedő, representative of the Momentum, is not present, so his question should be considered withdrawn under the house rules. Mr Endre Tóth, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What does the order planned by the Minister of the Interior look like in education? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, granted the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, you accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-10-10-123	I don't accept it.
u2022-10-10-124	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Representative Anna Orosz, Member of the Momentum, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "The future of our children, the humiliation of public education." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the absence of Minister Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, granted the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, do you accept the person you are responding to, or wait for the Minister to be present.
u2022-10-10-125	I'll take it.
u2022-10-10-126	Thank you very much. It's for Congresswoman Anna of Russia. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-127	Dear Secretary of State, I don't know, you're aware that mass protests against arbitrary threats and firing of teachers have been sustained. Last week, in Kossuth Square, virtually no movement was possible, so many people demonstrated, but they protested not only in the capital, but also in Szeged, Debrecen, Pécs and Sopron. Church schools also demonstrate, in Pécs the Great Lajos Cistercian, in NewBudan the St. Imre Cistercian High School. Hundreds of thousands of students and parents now stand up for our teachers, who have been humiliated for many years instead of financial and professional appreciation. Now, in the middle of the livelihood crisis, they are punishing you with a pay cut and a fire because they dared to voice their righteous outrage. Fidesz has systematically ruined Hungarian education since 2010. They eliminated school autonomy, free textbook selection, brutally increased the burden of students and teachers, reduced the age limit of compulsory education to 16 years. At the beginning of this year, teachers' rights to strike were emptied as the last nail in the coffin of Hungarian schools. You do not respond to protests, do not sit down with the interest of students, teachers, parents [[Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] In fact, they continue to harass teachers. Interpreting the protesters' demands, I ask you: when will you withdraw the outrageous dismissal of the teachers of the Kölcsey Ferenc High School and the deputy director of the Herman Ottó High School of Miskolc? When will the teachers' right to strike be restored, and when will they follow all the teachers who have been threatened with firing and withdrawal in recent months? When will they finally sit down with the representatives of Hungary to discuss the future of Hungarian schools, and most importantly, when will our teachers finally get a normal salary that can be paid? Thank you for your answers. [[A round of applause from Momentum.]]
u2022-10-10-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Did I ask you a question, as I listened to you, that you were dissociating yourself from the sentence that if someone told the teachers that the protest was not a good answer to the problems and that the purse was not dissuaded by the demonstration's original intention? Do you agree with this sentence, or do you distance yourself from it? [[A moment's pause.]] He doesn't answer because he's in an awkward position because your political ally, Gergely Arató, told the educators that they won't be deterred by anything, and they'll go through with it. They talked like this, talking to teachers and educators in such a pompous, condescending, self-confident style. And they said we weren't arguing about a 10 percent wage increase at the time, we think it's just a fund, and it would be good to raise a lot more for teachers, and we're also working on it, as opposed to you, to make more, but said that it's not about cost cuts, it's about better, more efficient use of available funds. So when you were on the government, the shadow minister of your shadow government, when he was a real Secretary of State and not a Shadow Minister, he justified the reduction by saying that the use of money is effective and that he said that he would not change the intention of the government. We agree with the fundamental objective of protesters, higher pedagogue wages. Here in Parliament, we have adopted HUF 86 billion in additional resources for the following year, the overwhelming majority of which will be spent on educating wage increases. We would like to turn more into a teacher's wage increase, which has already been said many times today, and has been said in the previous days. One of the sources of these may be that if a penalty premium is to be paid in Hungary for as little time as possible, because the sanctions will end as soon as possible, a surplus can finally be added to economic growth. On the other hand, there is Katalin Cseh, their MEP Anna Donáth, talk to them about not dictatorizing their own country every second in the European Parliament and getting access to the source of which we could turn hundreds of billions of forints into educators' wages if this were not blocked in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2022-10-10-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder for Congresswoman Anna Russian, please.
u2022-10-10-131	I'm sorry, but I don't have an answer to my question about what happened before 2010. The fact that there were wrong decisions and wrong statements at the time does not relieve you of the responsibility of the current situation of education. And with the 10 percent wage increase, please don't come, because this has long since been eaten by inflation exceeding 10 percent. You know as well as I do that a high school teacher with 10-15 years of experience doesn't make more than HUF 240-250,000 net, that's your poverty certificate. You know very well that you simply cannot make a living with that kind of money, especially in the middle of the current livelihood crisis. If you have the money to buy Vodafone for hundreds of billions of forints, if you have the money to spend tens of billions of forints on propaganda, then you should also be kind enough to spend money on the situation of Hungarian teachers and Hungarian schools. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-10-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, please.
u2022-10-10-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, And if there is a proposal on Parliament's table that will provide HUF 86 billion in surplus for teachers and education, then you can also be so kind and possibly support it with your vote, you can try this. Let me quote to you a fellow Member on the left, honourable Member. Ander Balázs told you, he addressed it to you, "But settling on it as a leech and expropriating the party-independent protest wave of teachers and students is more than counterproductive. The people who marched there really want more wages for the teachers. We agreed and agree on this, we have taken action on this and we will take action on this later. But don't act like it's suddenly become a big momentary demonstration that we've seen on the streets of Budapest in the last few days. We agree that it needs to be increased, but we find it strange to say that when opposition politicians start self-flying there, because there was never a crowd at their protests, so they go on such a mass demonstration and try to upload pictures on Facebook to get as much like crowded. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It would be better if they didn't stop EU funding from raising the extra teacher's wages, and I think that would be more helpful than three selfies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László György Lukács Group leader and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I would like to ask Mr. Head of Staff that Mr. Head of the Group... [[For signal:]] You said in advance that you would ask the Prime Minister for a personal answer. [[Dr. László György Lukács nods.]] This means that the Prime Minister must answer you at the hour of the second immediate questions. We now have the question of your next representative of the Jobbik faction, which is also your question. Congressman László György Lukács, leader of the Jobbik Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy was entitled to reply. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-135	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, But most importantly, fellow Members, The European Community as a whole and the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation are waiting for Hungary to sign the treaty amendment on the accession of the two Nordic countries, Finland and Sweden. It is in our clear interest that NATO, as a defence alliance, will be strengthened and that the Finnish and Swedish forces will be significantly strengthened. Especially when we have the opportunity and the obligation to cooperate, seeing the time and area left behind and around us. It is also clear, and Jobbik, as a conservative party, supports the defence alliance and it is important that these two states join it. The true Conservative believes in order and security and is on his side. In addition, we have a pan-European interest and a Hungarian interest in the accession of the two states, but for this, honourable Members, we must put this proposal on the agenda in Parliament and, above all, support it by the pro-government representatives. But let's look at the reasons you have raised against signing the treaty amendment. It occurred to me in this case that we were waiting for the Turks. Here we have to ask the question: if the Turks ask us to jump into the well, we will jump into the well, as if that is probably the Hungarian space of movement. Or it has come up that you are using it as blackmail against the European Community; it is time to strongly reject it, Mr Secretary of State. Therefore, there are no reasonable reasons to oppose this issue, and it is safe to say that if you are against it, it can only be because you are such Turkish friends, or worse, you are the most Russian-friendly government in Europe, or, worse still, you have been specifically asked to do so in Moscow. [[Béla Kovács! KGBéla! What's KGBéla doing in Moscow?]] It is therefore time to clarify, my fellow Members, the suspicious gas transactions, the Friendship Medal, which they received from Moscow, and that the Hungarian Government regularly consults with the Moscows and the leadership there. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: KGBéla is there right now! Where's the address of KGBela?]] Question, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, why does the pro-government majority of the Hungarian legislation hinder the accession of Swedish and Finnish NATO? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-10-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy for the answer, please, Minister.
u2022-10-10-137	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, With regard to NATO accession, I welcome the decision taken by Finland and Sweden. It is in Hungary's interest to join NATO in order to ensure peace and security in Europe, as well as in the interests of Hungary, and in any further consultation, any measures that strengthen NATO itself, will strengthen peace and security in Europe. It is absolutely important that we can preserve this security and this peace, because we can see, at the moment as this peace and security is at stake, what difficulties we are facing, for those we never thought of in our lives, in food, in energy, and a hundred, a thousand things that can be classified in the shadows of a war, what losses and what difficulties we all face. It is in everyone's interest to strengthen security, to complete this accession. I very much hope that Turkey will also be able to reconcile its problems with regard to the two countries in order to overcome all obstacles beyond the complete expansion of NATO. Hungary does not wish to attach any obstacles to this, but it is in our interest that this agreement, this accession, can succeed. Thank you. [[The First of Novak: Veto!]]
u2022-10-10-138	[[To the Foreman of Novak:]] Congressman! For a one-minute rejoinder, Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-10-10-139	Thank you very much. I would like to improve myself, Mr. Minister, before, I was an unworthy secretary of state, constantly watching our fellow Member of Potápi, Mr. Secretary of State. Minister, I'm glad you said so. Minister, I will take you at your word, please, together with me, to present a proposal that will put you on the agenda, and at the latest on Monday, not on the next day, but on Monday A, it will give you the opportunity to follow the words of the majority in favour of the Government, Minister... because it is really important to protect, the security of our country is really important, and Hungary, the Hungarian Parliament, cannot stand in the way of NATO and its allies in Europe being stronger and their defence alliance fully completed. I am pleased that Minister was able to go on this journey, and I would also like my fellow Members on the pro-government bench to finally say what you said in advance at the time of the change of regime, that "Russian" is home. Instead of you, it is said by others, but we expect you to be the ones who have gone this way, but now it seems that they are pursuing a dangerous Moscow-friendly policy, and the government seems to be at the mercy of Russian interests. It is now possible to oppose the accession of NATO to Hungary by these two States. Minister, I'm going to ask you to associate with this and carry the flame. [[Defiance and intervention from the pro-government ranks: Stephen, take the flame! Raise the torch.]] Lead the way to your fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-10-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Minister István Nagy is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2022-10-10-141	Mr President, Thank you for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that this is a much more serious issue than making jokes or recalling things that are not worthy, because talking about Europe's security, talking about our own security, talking about the safety of our lives, or talking about our children, I think it's a cardinal issue. [[14.30]] The fact that you are putting this up and you are making up things that none of my fellow Members believe to be a deliberate obstacle here, or we simply disagree with the fact that we are taking the two countries into the NATO Member States' framework, is a complete lie. Then I am moved to remind you of how your former partner, EU representative, behaved and what actions you have done. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] there, in the European Union, to serve even Russian interests. So you always have to think carefully about words and deal with every action, because our words have weight and responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-142	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member András Jámbor, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy has appointed Minister of State to respond. [[For signal:]] You indicate that you accept the person who is responding. Thank you very much. Congressman András Jámbor has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-143	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I may not say surprising things to anyone if I say that there is a livelihood crisis in Hungary. The latest news is that the workers of the Volán are preparing for strike, but we've heard in the last week that the mailmen also want to strike, the trashmen with whom Gergely Christmas managed to settle down and see what happens on the teachers' front. We see that the lower middle class is becoming increasingly difficult in this crisis in Hungary because of the increased overhead, because of the increasingly brutal price increase. According to the G7 calculations, food prices increased by 9 percent in September. Obviously, these situations are affecting the poorest or the lower middle class, and the fact is that in the last few weeks, since you've lifted the eviction moratorium, we've seen more and more brutal cases where we have to face evictions. This was the case last week in District V, where a medical doctor was evicted for a debt of HUF 370 000, while in the same district György Schadl, former head of the Executive Faculty, bought a property at a price of HUF 380 thousand, so that the property next to it was estimated at a price of HUF 1 million at a price of HUF 100 thousand, so he made twice as much per square metre as this woman was evicted for. Mr Répássy promised to investigate the maladministration of his Executives in the spring. The letters keep coming, we get the messages with brutal stories. I met with an eviction where they wanted to evict someone without even saying it was in his name, but they were gonna put him on the street. We would also ask the government and our Fidesz fellow Members to extend the eviction moratorium for as long as the crisis lasts, and to accept the ad hoc committee of inquiry that would investigate the affairs of the Executive Faculty and not eviction in Hungary until we can ensure that it is a fair and lawful eviction. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-10-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Répássy Robert. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The specific case you mentioned shows the situation that the metropolitan district authorities have used this and initiated implementation: in total, 566 implementations were initiated by left-wing municipalities in Budapest since November 2019. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that these enforcement procedures are not used to recover current claims, but to recover debts made years ago, and the final means of implementing such evacuation years ago. Just because the government has declared an eviction moratorium for the last two years, this eviction moratorium has lasted for nearly two years, and this moratorium has been lifted by eliminating emergency rules. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government has given all the help so far to protect people in difficulty. In addition to the eviction moratorium, the government introduced a retail interest-rate stop, helped foreign exchange lenders as well, and the forinting of bank foreign exchange loans was all intended to prevent people from leaving their homes. If the applicant for enforcement fails to intend to evacuate the apartment, then, of course, the enforcer will stop the execution. So in this case, if the metropolitan district owners ask for it, there will be no eviction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of the matter. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-147	It's hard to say after an answer like that. I've seen this graph, too. I would like to say that a municipal eviction can be made out of a municipal tenement. You can play all kinds of games with numbers, but let's note that in District X, out of 2500 apartments, you've been evicted in 95 in the last three years, the XVI. in the district, out of 270 apartments in 13. They're about five percent. Annex VIII is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. in the district, this ratio is 1.7 per cent, the XIII. 1.8 percent in the district according to your chart, and I know for a fact that VIII. in the district, double the number that is written in this table as reality. But the essential question is not that, but how the doctor of medicine who worked as a teacher, became disabled, was evicted for 300 thousand forints by paying the debt, and the district told the family helper the day before. How can such a procedure go through? Either I just got a message from Pope, where a woman had to choose between paying her handicapped husband's meds or paying her debts. He chose to pay for the drugs, now the eviction procedure is over, he spent his money on lawyers, the lawyers couldn't reach the end of the eviction. It's very good that there's a interest stop that's going to cause even more trouble, but the problem is, in the current situation, with this enforcement law that you accepted in 2000 and which gives someone the opportunity to make an offer for their apartment after 20 days. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] , but only after 65 days will the appeal procedure be completed, so someone can get out on the street before the appeal goes through...
u2022-10-10-148	Congressman!
u2022-10-10-149	I think it's a sin to leave people in such a crisis without any help from this law. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. András Imre Jámbor: Excuse me, thank you. A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-10-150	Congressman, perhaps you should apologize for the passage of time. Not in a minute, but in almost two minutes, he told me everything he was supposed to add to a minute. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-151	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, In the course of judicial executions, there is a possibility of redress, an enforcement objection, which the court shall judge; or, if a person has a legal objection to the enforcement activity, his legality is questioned by his enforcement activities, and he may turn to the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities. So I'm asking you, and I'm encouraging you, and anyone who hears of it, to take advantage of the opportunity to appeal. As long as there is a remedy, the eviction cannot take place. However, we cannot promise a rule of law where debts do not have to be repaid. So the fact is that if someone has a debt, they can, for example, ask the municipalities for help, and they can ask them for housing support. Don't wait until your chance to pay back is completely hopeless. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. László Toroczkai Group Leader is not present, so his question should be considered withdrawn. Mr.Előd Novák, representative of Mi Hazank, who wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister for National Policy, Nationality Policy, Church Policy and Church Diplomacy: When will they stand on their heels? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister, because of his absence, Mr. Árpád Potápi gave the right to reply to Mr. Secretary of State János Potápi. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating that you accept... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] He won't take it. Then I would like to ask, with all due respect, the person to whom you are responding, and I apologise for the fact that I thought you would accept it from the wave of your head. [[14.40]]
u2022-10-10-153	Thank you, Mr. President. I really understood that I would be next in principle, although László Toroczkai indicated in advance in writing that he would not accept the personal responder, so I would also wait for the Minister. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-10-154	Thank you very much. The Deputy Prime Minister will have to answer you at the hour of the third immediate question. Congressman István Apáti, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question, 'Will it be luxurious to feed and heat? It's an address. It's time for Congressman István Apáti. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, In the last two years, the explosion in food prices has been measured not at a percentage rate, but at times in multipliers, so it is no exaggeration to say that it is a luxury to be fed. However, I would like to ask you about the other issue, the topic of heating, which is also a luxury category, in particular, concerning the supply of firewood. One of them is a very respectful suggestion. In view of the fact that state forest farms sell 10 cubic metres of firewood per household at a price of HUF 30,000 per cubic metre, this is a well-controlled, well-defined circle. With respect, Mi Hazank Movement proposes a VAT exemption, because in this case, the households concerned could obtain 10 cubic meters of wood instead of 30 thousand forints for 23 600 forints. On the other hand, in order to prevent the loss of profits on people at the fare, it would be worth fixing the freight charges in units of HUF/km or units. What I see and what we see here at Mi Hazan, Minister, is that there are many untapped opportunities, whether in public or private Hungarian forests. There are at least 15 000 hectares of forest, a hundred percent of which are state-owned, which has not been taken into asset management, is not tended by the regionally competent state forest economy. We're talking hundreds of thousands of cubic meters and millions of hundreds of thousands of acres of firewood on this one alone. Like many, even tens of thousands of hectares, there are mostly undivided privately owned forests with unorganized forest management status. These are usually overgrown forests, which means they should have been cut a long time ago. This alone could satisfy several years of firewood demand. This ownership should be interested in taking part in forestry. I ask you, Minister, that you are willing to move in this direction, and then, in the next minute, there will be more, I tell you. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-10-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer to what has been said so far from Minister István Nagy. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-10-10-157	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, The introduction of the official priced firewood was a very forward-looking decision by the Hungarian government. Let's remember how much resistance he encountered. When we raised the possibility of this, what lying smearing campaigns were launched against the government to dare to cut a single tree out of the forest. Fortunately, we are over this because the government was wise, and it saw that people should be provided with the right fuel at a time of energy risk. It's no coincidence that he's an authority priced, because people need to be able to reach the potential of this tree. The Hungarian government believes that what the state forests produce at official prices is a firewood material. We'll have to move it from there, and everyone can handle it any way they want, with a friend, with a friend, with their own or in the car. The government doesn't want to interfere with this, because how can we control how your car or your question can be solved? It is quite clear that the status of undivided common-owned forests is uneven. Why would that happen? Let us also consider this, my dear fellow Member. It has evolved because in recent times cheap energy has not forced the use of firewood, so it is not worth producing these trees for the people here. There are extremely many, many hundreds, even thousands of owners of one to five-ten hectares of forest land. It's very, very difficult to come to an agreement here. Now that there are orderly conditions at the price of the tree and there is a huge social demand for the tree, I think this problem will be resolved in a short time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-158	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Apáti. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-159	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you did not answer my question about whether or not to support the institution of the VAT-free official price. On the other hand, there are a lot of untapped opportunities to simplify the elimination of undivided common property in forest cultivation even more, compared to what is currently being done, as there are many administrative obstacles to the market, even in keeping undivided common property, but in orderly conditions of use. On the other hand, we must not hide what we have not stated so far, that at the moment 500 thousand forints/hectare renovation insurance is charged to owners in advance in the event of slashing, which most small forest owners cannot afford and cannot farm. We propose the suspension and reduction of this, a radical, drastic reduction in the number of relevant cases in order to bring more wood from private forests to the market, thereby reducing the price of wood. Forest farmers are still able to make use of them, and customers are much cheaper than current prices for firewood. Do you support these efforts? Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-10-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Minister. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-161	I think the government has sent a clear message by regulating the price of firewood at an official price, and at a reasonable price that is acceptable to everyone. I agree with you that we should look at the rules of use of the undivided common-owned forests, as it is no coincidence that we are moving forces to lead the undivided common ownership out of the Hungarian agricultural history, because as a harness, it is holding the whole thing. In connection with the planting of forests, let me refresh the memory of all of us: it was decided that we could give 3 million forints for each of the plantings, if this is acacia forest, we can give 5 million for oak and beech plantings, and then for 12 years we can reserve subsidies that are worth planting for private individuals. We started these processes against the climate crisis, and well, well, that's a good decision, because life shows that every decade, every two decades, there may be changes that we need to think about. That is a fact, and it can be said that planting a forest in today's circumstances is certainly worthwhile and necessary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-162	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I inform the Honourable Parliament, the head of the LMP faction, said in advance that he would ask for a personal reply, so he must reply at the hour of the next immediate questions due to Mr. Prime Minister's absence. We now have a representative of the LMP Group who would like to ask the next question, who is also Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy, who also wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is the solution to the energy crisis? It's an address. I would like to inform you and this House that, because of Prime Minister's absence, Minister István Nagy has given the right to reply. Congressman Máté Kanász-Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-163	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start with two quotes. Minister Mihály Varga said recently that if the price is not cheaper or if it is only reduced, we will have to consume less of it. Then there will be energy efficiency programmes that have been in recent years, but perhaps to a more modest or moderate degree than should have been, i.e. the Minister for Finance has acknowledged that the government has not prepared for the energy crisis in the last ten years. [[14.50]] My other quote is from Minister László Palkovics. He said, too, recently: the end of the cheap Russian gas, we will now have a much more exciting, varied energy market here, Minister László Palkovics referred to the need for wind energy, for example, and he condemned the period when the country's gas consumption significantly increased during the period of the reduction, because it is expensive, it came from a non-domestic source and it was climate-destructive. We think it is welcome that more and more government ministers recognize that the energy policy of the last 12 years has been a failure. More and more people from the government are saying that they are not prepared for the energy crisis and the climate crisis that we are experiencing. The fact is that this energy crisis is caused by imported fossil energy; imported fossil energy should be released and steps taken in this direction. I would like to ask you about these steps and why the government is not planning to consult on green issues and the need for green rotation, the use of solar energy, wind energy or the comprehensive national insulation programme. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-10-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be given by István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I would like to state right from the start and reject the fact that the government is not prepared for the energy crisis. That's a statement from you, as if you could have seen it last year. You could argue that it was worth using cheap gas instead of cutting down, say, forest. The answer was clear: it was not supported. And I think it was not just us, but Europe all over, because all the phenomena that are happening in Hungary now because of the energy threat are not Hungarian. It is a European phenomenon that is caused by faulty sanctions. But what are we supposed to do? We're in this situation, we need to find solutions. And it's no coincidence that even the firewood program has been set in motion, we need to take out our brown coal, we need to start everything that is our own option. It is no coincidence that the German government's decisions on how to use their own are also decisions, but it is true that we need to use the possibility of green energy much more effectively. And here I am asking for your help, because if you look at it, what is one of the biggest items we want to achieve in the European Reconstruction Fund? In order to enable our networks to absorb these energy from alternative production, it can be extremely dispersed, extremely intense, but at different times. It is difficult to regulate, and the country's territorial capabilities, as we are a plain, do not allow a balancing water power plant to solve that windy or even nightly need because neither wind energy nor solar energy would be produced. We are moving enormous forces to store the energy generated in an alternative way. This is the key issue of the future [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] its economy. We need to solve the route for the transport of energy; the renewal of the network is therefore very, very important. Help us in Brussels to get these funds, and we can use it to renovate the network! Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-10-166	Thank you very much, Minister. With all due respect, I'd like to ask you all to try and keep up with your time frame. [[Dr. István Nagy: Excuse me.]] A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, The Roman Club was founded in 1968, which published its first reports very quickly. It has already been known that there will be very serious problems with energy supply and climate change, so that everyone has known this very well for more than half a century, which is a scientific fact. He referred here to the use of renewable energies. This is an important solution, a sustainable solution that can reduce both the effects of the climate crisis and help to avoid the energy crisis. I have submitted a written question to all ministers, ministers and ministers that they support the withdrawal of the 2016 regulation, which currently prohibits the use of wind energy. There is one week left to reply, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask you personally, Minister, that you therefore support or oppose the lifting of the 2016 regulation, and that you would retain this ban. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-10-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-169	Dear Parliament, There is no debate between us about the need for alternative energy, green energy. There is no debate between us either that the scale and proportion of this should be increased. I do not think there is any debate between us either that our ambition is to do this as much as possible from domestic sources and to satisfy the growing industrial performance. I ask you for understanding and help to keep the process, so that the cart does not overtake the donkey, so that we can make the Hungarian electricity network, the system that can accommodate these energies, suitable. I'll be honest with you: solar energy is the most expensive energy in Hungary today, because we often have to pay for the energy generated so that we can channel it into the system and that someone will accept it; then, of course, we buy it at an expensive, ten times the price when we need it and we don't have enough. So it's a huge problem right now. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you to follow the process, maintain a balance, and you will see that green energy in Hungary will also be able to develop quite nicely and proportionately. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-10-170	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question in exchange for what they could ask in return. It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Balázs Fürjes appointed Minister of State to respond. [[On the sign of Péter Ágh:]] Thank you very much for indicating, Mr President, that you accept the person who is responding. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-10-171	Dear Secretary of State, As everyone is aware, the left, headed by the fallen Prime Minister candidate, Péter Márki-Zay, received billions of HUF support in the election campaign from America. This also indicates that the dollar left remains fully dependent on the Soros network, which is where the money and guidance are expected. The intensity of the mysterious American money and relationships is also indicated by the fact that the people of Márki-Zay traveled back and forth to the United States; and the mayor's advisor, David Korányi, led the way of the money from there. Ever since Márki-Zay busted himself getting juda money from America, the former candidate for Prime Minister on the left has been trying to deny that his movement has been campaigning out of the billions coming. But he was also talking about how, even in June, campaign bills were paid with this money. At this point, the question arises: if, according to Márki-Zay, foreign money was not spent on campaigns, then why did the logo of the Hungarian Movement appear on the billboards and leaflets of every candidate on the dollar-left side? What's this if it's not campaign funding? There's a strong suspicion that the left has played out party financing rules. In this case, the Secret Service and the police have to investigate what happened. In the meantime, it was revealed that not only the Márki-Zay movement, but also the DataAdat related to the Bajnai Gordon, came from American funds, which then flooded Hungarian public life with memorable text messages, Facebook ads and billboards. Dear Secretary of State, We can be sure that these dollars are not the selfless micro-donations of the dear Americans who are concerned about the fate of Hungary. It would be naive to think that someone is supporting the Hungarian left with millions of dollars without any ulterior motive, and therefore, in the world, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He doesn't want anything in return. The question is, what could the left have promised in return? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-10-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Balázs Fürjes responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-10-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Well, it is an unprecedented thing that the left is captured; political corruption and foreign clients and clients have taken him prisoner. What's wrong with that? This is particularly bad when Hungary is facing major challenges, like all the countries of Europe, and we need national unity. It would be necessary to count on the left to act responsibly and to side with Hungary on issues such as war, sanctions, misguided sanctions in Brussels or EU subsidies that are rightfully due to Hungary. [[15.00]] Unfortunately, we see that the left is pro-war, the left is pro-sanctioned, and left-wing politicians are doing their best in this House when they vote on the legislative proposals that make an agreement with the European Union binding, or when they vote in the European Parliament so that Hungary does not receive the European Union's funds. They will therefore do everything in their power when Brussels agrees. When the Brussels Financial Commissioner says that Brussels can conclude a constructive, good agreement with Hungary, you will [[To the representatives of the Momentum:]] Even though they are more Brussels than Brussels, they are more Brussels than Brussels, Brussels bureaucrats would already agree with Hungary, but you would still torpedo this agreement. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) And this is where the question is connected: there is no free lunch, obviously the client is asking you to do it in exchange for the millions of dollars that supported the left campaign. Soul on it! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-174	Thank you very much. My compliments to my fellow Members. I'll give the floor a one-minute rejoinder.
u2022-10-10-175	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Some in politics are national and some have international priorities. It is clear that the dollar left is political along the lines of international priorities. The case of the current juda money, I think, is clearly proof of that. If we look back, I think we can say that since the change of regime, there has been no precedent for funding a party's campaign with foreign money. This also shows that everything that has happened is outrageous, and it also calls on all of us who are responsible for the fate of this country to have consequences, which must also have consequences. And what did they promise in return? I think that the conclusion is clear: in exchange for the huge money in this situation, the Left clearly supports the failed sanctions policy of the elite in Brussels, the consequences of which are felt day by day in everyday life. I think that we should finally stand by national interests and put an end to the practice that you are pursuing in order to serve international interests. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-176	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter Agh. Mr Balázs Fürjes is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2022-10-10-177	If things weren't that bad, you'd be in the mood to make jokes. They received two billion forints from abroad to campaign, this was not shown during the campaign. Anyone who makes such a campaign out of two billion forints is either lined with winds or steals; it may even have been stolen from juda money, it is difficult to decipher. But unfortunately, we don't want to joke, because the situation is serious, and your words prove it. We have asked for it several times and there is no explanation for the words of the Socialist Co-President Ágnes Kunhalmi, so once again I quote literally, after the election he said: "The opposition is misunderstood. He's been trying to live up to a very narrow system of expectations for a very long time, which, if someone tries to quit, or talks or tries to speak in a different voice, he will be killed. Where is the dictatorship, dear left-wing representatives? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have one more immediate question. István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: what should Brussels do to ensure that the sanctions policy, that certain discarded millstone, does not eventually hit Europe and Hungary? The Minister authorised Mr Répássy Róbert as Secretary of State to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2022-10-10-179	Yes, thank you, I accept.
u2022-10-10-180	Yeah. It is for Congressman István Hollik.
u2022-10-10-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, today all of Europe can see that the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine do not stop at the border, so we see a local war here, but this local war has global consequences. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that the sanctions policy imposed by Brussels is causing war inflation and crises across the continent, most of all, an economic and energy crisis. And today we can also conclude that Brussels' promises about sanctions have not been fulfilled, as they said that sanctions will put an end to the war, bring Russia to its knees, and that Europe will not be harmed. On the contrary, the opposite happened. Unfortunately, however, we can also see that we cannot reach political agreement on sanctions here in Parliament, as the left continues to support sanctions, and we can see left-wing speeches on this from week to week. So if we want to change the sanctions policy, we certainly can't count on them. It is obvious that this must be the most important objective. Last week's events have provided evidence of this, as we have seen that the European Commission and the President of the European Council have talked only about putting the gas cap on the agenda, and the price of gas has increased by more than 10 percent as a result of these speeches. So it is quite clear what to do in a sanctioning case. My question, Mr State Secretary, is how can the government make Brussels finally change its sanctions policy.
u2022-10-10-182	Thank you, Congressman Hollik. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2022-10-10-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, In the Western world, there is a dominant position that says that the best thing to do in this war situation is to impose sanctions and carry weapons. A global crisis has now emerged from the local war in our neighbourhood. In Europe, however, we are now experiencing the fact that neither arms transport nor sanctions bring peace closer to us, but rather push it further away from us and provoke war. The Hungarian government is interested in peace, because only peace can bring an end to war inflation and the emerging war recession. More and more people on the continent recognise that sanctions have caused economic difficulties in Europe. However, sanctions have raised the price of energy to the sky, and this also affects Hungary. It has become clear to everyone that the sanctions imposed are causing Europe great harm. Since the war, Russia has gained EUR 158 billion in revenue from increased energy exports, so it has not fallen to its knees at all while European economies are bleeding to death. Obviously, the sanctions policy needs to be changed, but the EU is working on introducing the eighth sanction package. At the same time, the Prime Minister managed to make two important exceptions in Prague in order to ensure the security of Hungarian energy supply and thus to protect the Hungarian people. The Hungarian government calculates that if sanctions were lifted, energy and food prices currently loosed due to war inflation would be reduced by half. And what is needed to eliminate sanctions? Peace, therefore, the Hungarian government demands an immediate ceasefire and peace talks. We must promote peace, not prolong war. In other words, we need to win peace, which is in the interests of Hungary, Europe and the world as a whole, and in order to promote this, the Prime Minister has also discussed specifically with the majority of the major states at the European Union summit. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-10-184	A one-minute rejoinder is due to Congressman Hollik.
u2022-10-10-185	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. One feels that the relationship between sanctions and the left is very similar to that of the migration crisis in the case of a compulsory quota, first the left denied even the existence of a compulsory quota, just as it is now in the case of gas sanctions. As with the mandatory quota, the gas guarantee was finally placed on the table of Brussels decision-makers. The left listens to this, as it does now. However, if the left-wing parties were asked about the compulsory quota, this is what all voting protocols ultimately indicated in support of the compulsory resettlement quota. [[15.10]] And now we see them asking left-wing politicians about sanctions to support them. The left cannot therefore be counted on in this case, so we must do everything we can to resist these efforts, say no to sanctions and change the sanctions policy. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-10-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2022-10-10-187	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Some say sanctions work. Some Brussels leaders also say that we will suffer, but we will somehow survive. The European Union often accuses Hungary of violating European values, while sanctions have not been democratically decided, not by the voters, but by the bureaucrats in Brussels and the European elites. The government bases its public work on dialogue and therefore encourages everyone to participate in the national consultation, in which people are first asked about energy sanctions in Hungary in Europe. Thank you for asking.
u2022-10-10-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. You have applied for a post-meeting speech for how long? With the title Z. Kárpát Dániel, representative of Jobbik.
u2022-10-10-189	Mr President, Dear House, Now that the fellow Members are packing up their belongings and the Parliament's meeting is almost over, late afternoon the forint looked below the exchange rate of HUF 428 and the same indicator for the dollar is HUF 441. Let us add that if we look at petrol prices and this week's price increase, then there is also a value of well over HUF 800 for certain categories, and since food and commodities are transported, the entrepreneur can only use petrol and pay for petrol, obviously consumers are there too, and most importantly, Hungarian families have to bear the burden. The subject of the incredibly weak forint exchange rate is avoided by my fellow Members at such a level that they do not dare to mention it even in the faintest context. It would be very cheap for me to bring here the Prime Minister's statements before 2010 alone, where we were talking about weak people and weak forints, in the case of an exchange rate starting with 2, i.e. around 260. Since then, we have known that it has been a long time, but perhaps we can reach a common understanding that we have to give abnormally much forints for one euro, that our currency is extremely weak. What can be a debate between us, but I can prove that the government's conscious policy has led us here, so since 2010, the Hungarian Government has been trying to favour the large, global and mega-networks, for the sake of its real allies. This was so well done here on the, well, imagine a quotation mark, that last year, the revenues of the multi-enterprises concerned could be increased by 20 percent on their own, if we take into account the impact of the forint weakening. So as much as the euro was brought here, they could have made or made 20 percent more investment, distributed payments. We see that this pampering, which is completely unilateral and complemented by a support system, is completely unjustified for multi-business companies, and this is not possible for the Hungarian government to win any international competition, but still insists on the XIX. The Hungarian labour force should be cheap and sufficiently flexible, according to him, the Hungarian labour code, and they will want to compete for international capital. We have known this for decades, along with its little or no success. What we see is that the Hungarian small entrepreneur is a fraction of job creation, or God gives it, as opposed to the discounts on multi-enterprises! You can only receive support and realize it. This is why we have been proposing, for many years, since the 2014-18 cycle, to suspend the unilateral support system, to review the whole set of terms and conditions, the government has renegotiated its strategic contracts, to renegotiate, to include the clear systematic increase, approximation of the wages of Hungarian workers to the EU average, and to include the fact that this completely unilateral system should be terminated, to open this system to Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because they own a real two-thirds of the Hungarian jobs, they provide about two-thirds of the Hungarian jobs. Speaking of protecting families, it is not possible to go along with the fact that the impact of a weak forint price, the brutal petrol price, the release of food prices, inflation, the marketised overhead costs are all the same family seeds, the most important basic unit of society. We usually get to the question of good, but the family allowance has been frozen for more than ten years. I am saying that this family allowance should be doubled immediately, but not unconditionally, in view of the crisis. We do not want this to be spent on various recreational products, or to end up with gambling distributors. In addition to trying to assume the best of course, through an institution called a family card, we are guaranteed to imagine this doubling in the interests of the child, because the family card could be used to buy basic food, child-rearing products, or to contribute to the child's housing costs, where appropriate, or to pay for his intellectual or other development, related services. Overall, even the budgetary margin is possible, which can be achieved. We are confused that, while the government is trying to inflate the family allowance, it does not make the whole family support system follow-up to inflation. So we demand an immediate doubling, but specifically and exclusively on a family card, so that every single forint of taxpayers can be used in the interests of children. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-10-10-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ferenc Varga, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. The government does nothing about the social crisis. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-10-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the elections behind us, your 3 million voters certainly didn't think that what they had been doing to the campaign would be given up so quickly. First they kicked small businessmen, and then they abolished the reduction of the rent. The price of electricity has been doubled over the rather oddly defined average consumption and the price of gas has been increased by seven times. Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of families are beginning to feel that despite their work, their salaries are not enough from month to month, and even slowly every day. Do you know how much a kilo of bread cost at this time last year? It was 398 forints. And do you know how much it is now? I see that many of you are not very concerned. The cheapest is 619 forints. The change plus 55 percent, i.e. more than half the price of bread. But if you look at the salary of the one-time factory worker, teacher, health worker, social worker, it didn't go that far. Ladies and gentlemen, We are moving towards a very serious social crisis, a crisis that you have not had any meaningful reaction to. You didn't leave the families on the side of the road, you kicked them straight into a hole. But I will go on, my honourable members of the Government. You also distinguish between the poor and the poor and the sick and the sick. When the price-stop firewood system was created, it was not taken into account that forestry capacity did not allow for increased demand. In addition, even if the price limits, by the time a cubic meter of wood is placed in the courtyard of the families, thanks to the high transport costs and the cutting of the tree, it costs about as much as if the price was not frozen. Of course, at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, the Fidesz response was born from the mouth of Attila Stojka, Commissioner for Roma Affairs: local authorities should deliver the wood at the expense of their own social framework. Ladies and gentlemen, Have you spoken to any of the mayors lately? Do you know what the situation is with the municipal authorities? The vast majority of them don't even know how to survive this year because of the increased overhead costs, let alone take this kind of extra cost for your withdrawal. Orbán said that those who consume a lot should strive to earn more or consume less. Are you aware that most people don't do that? How pissed are you people if you think this is going to take care of the debt crisis? ! Dear fellow Member, I suggest you pay attention now. During the summer, I visited a mother who raised her severely disabled child 24 hours a day. Because the child has diapers, so the temperature balance is not like the average person's, they can't reduce the temperature, so they can't reduce the consumption. The mother has to be with him 24 hours a day because she needs constant supervision, so she can't make more money because she can't go to work. [[15.20]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that consumption above average is not a luxury for people with disabilities, but a vital issue. However, young families where a newborn has just arrived are in a similar difficult situation, and the mother can't work anymore, and the heating can't be taken off. Dear family-friendly government! I hope you feel the irony. What do they say to these mothers and those who are in the same situation? But I'll go on: what do you say to the people who have fallen victim to your failed economic policy? We demand a reduction in the system usage fee and the VAT on the rent. We demand the release of VAT on basic foods and articles for raising children. As long as you do not take these steps until you help poor families, you cannot be a family-friendly government, so I ask you to refrain from using the term in the future. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-10-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Bodó, Mr Fidesz, applied for a speech following the agenda entitled Hajdúszoboszló is constantly evolving.
u2022-10-10-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, if the name of Hajdúszoboszló is said somewhere, then the vast majority of people usually remember the beach, the spa, the leisure, the relaxation, a pleasant summer vacation, and I think that it is well. The city is indeed a tourist citadel, now it has news not only in Hungary but also throughout Europe. Soon the settlement will be enriched with a substantial, spectacular investment, and an excellent promenade will be built on the hotel line. I suggest you take a look at it if you're in the area. But Hajdúszoboszló is not only a spa town, there is not only a beach, it is not only leisure, it is also a very serious economic activity. And just recently, it was one of the most modern concrete tiles in the world, the specialty of which is that it uses only natural raw materials in environmentally friendly production. I think it's a legitimate wish everywhere, but in a bathing town, it's probably one in particular. The investor is Leier Hungária Kft., which has been a family business in Hungary for 37 years. Currently it has nine building materials manufacturing plants, one of which is in Hajduszoboszlo and has more than 1200 employees in Hungary. The total cost of this investment is HUF 4.5 billion at several sites, which means the expansion of the plant, and of course, it was supported by the Government of Hungary. The investment proves that the new company or owners trust in the future, trust in the Hungarian economy and trust in the workers of Hajduszoboszlo, which is particularly good news. As a result of the development, the previous production volume tripled and the number of employees increased from 50 to 100. In the new plant there is a Swedish technology, as I have already said, environmentally friendly, using only natural materials to produce flat and waved concrete tiles in different colours, surfaces and with much higher capacity than before. It is very important to note that no waste is produced. Essentially, all elements, all possible waste can be recycled. The company also has a uniquely wide range of products, which is worth noting, since what comes out of this group of companies and in the course of manufacturing activities can also be built a complete family house. The Leier family appeared for the first time in 1998 in Hajduszoboszló, where it started the production of roof tiles, and over the decades it continuously increased, expanded, shaped and upgraded the site. It was expected because of the growing demands that they would not be able to meet the growing demands, so we had to get to the point of having a large, modern expansion on a scale, and we lived the days and months of it in the previous period. By the way, the ownership circle decided to develop in 2020 and, as I mentioned, a new, modern hall section was built, quadrupling the capacity of the plant so far. It is very important to note that in addition to modern technology, employees are also thought of as well, since the new plant has been renovated and the office building has also been renovated and social rest facilities have also been renovated. The new plant started operating a few days ago, and I can tell you that a very large part of the products are sold in Hungary, with only a very minimal amount available to the neighbouring country market. This indicates, in any case, that there is a demand for quality products in Hungary. The development of Hajdúszoboszló fits well, by the way, into the line that Leier Kft. does. He has completed in Hungary since 2015: he has invested 200 million euros, and has created more than 300 new jobs at group level. As I have negotiated with them, as a token of success, the company builds on the excellent Hungarian workforce, on the traditions that are otherwise present in these plants. There is therefore visible evidence of development in Hungary: quality improvement is always needed. And we need a partner, and the municipality of Hajduszoboszló is clearly a cooperative partner, helping companies that want to develop in the city. As in the area of tourism, I believe that every investment in the economy will be repaid, and indeed, we will be able to improve the country's economic performance by working together and thinking together. The Hajduszoboszlo plant therefore does its work in the spirit of these thoughts. By the way, the company is also joining the public life of the city. I wish for all of us that this good example should be sticky as in Hajduszoboszlo as in all Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-10-194	Thank you very much, Congressman Bodo. János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-scheduled speech in the region of Rezsicasta. It's an address. [[This is a disaster! Intercoms: He's not in the room.]] He's not here? [[Interjection: No.]] Then we'll move on. Mr President Novak, representative of Mi Hazánk, has applied for a post-meeting speech. I will not read the title of the speech after the agenda, my dear Member, because it uses a term that offends a minority, and I ask with due respect that you do not use that term, and I do not have to withdraw it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-10-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I respect your use of the word, and I ask you to respect both mine and the decision of the Supreme Court in 2010, which already stated the legality of the use of the word Gypsy crime in the case of arbitrary banning public media. My speech was published several days ago, and, by the way, the public title of Parliament.hu was also published in public, and it is necessary for the Btk to reduce Gypsy crime and political crime. tightening. This is what I would like to talk about after, unfortunately, László Kövér, Speaker of the House, disabled him, as he did in 2010 and rejected him in one person, so to speak, according to the house rules, the bill, the title of which was undoubtedly an important title. But I think that the dignity of the Parliament is most offended by the fact that a Member of Parliament, although no doubt to the point, cannot go before the committee responsible for Parliament's bill, which is most important in professional terms. However, the Speaker, quite rightly, signed this proposal to the committee responsible, and two weeks after he instructed the committee to discuss this proposal, it seems finally that, under external pressure, he decided to reject it, to ban this bill in one person. I think we need to talk about these things. For example, if the word gypsy crime were banned, it would not be possible to talk about political crime or juvenile delinquency. None of them are generalizing, but it simply means that there are typical forms of crime that I have learned about myself, since I studied Romology at the Pázmány, and I took an "A." But perhaps there is no need to explain in the church of the nation to speak frankly about one of the most serious problems of Hungarians, Gypsy crime or political crime, and also about specific proposals for solutions to it. After all, let's say that a politician doesn't steal a bicycle, it would be more justified to abolish immunity, or even to impose a double penalty, which has long been called upon by the Hungarian Movement to receive twice the penalty that is always in force; it is not for a bike theft, but for billions of forints, because it is typical of a political crime. [[15.30]] On the other hand, there are typical forms of crime that call for other solutions to reduce Gypsy crime. Although it is possible to lie that the two weeks have passed and they have settled, many times have passed, let alone two weeks, 12 years have passed, and there has been no order. Of course, it is possible to cosmetics statistics, raising the infringement threshold to HUF 50,000 to say that stealing a bicycle is no longer a crime, of course, the number of crimes has decreased, but instead of this cosmetics, we should not ban our solutions, not our legislative, Btk.-stricken proposal, but Gypsy crime itself. Why are we talking about this? You have one sad topicality, ladies and gentlemen. We also held a protest in Nyíregyháza, after the head of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County of the Insurgent Army was attacked and attempted murder, and the unsub was released after two days. That's where we are now. The reason I proposed in this legislative amendment proposal is that those who commit gang-related and armed crimes, as in this case, are currently considered to be a minimum of abuse, then the perpetrator must automatically be arrested in advance, or, with today's official wording, simply put under arrest. Unfortunately, as I have pointed out in my proposal, which is no longer on the agenda of the Parliament, since I submitted the new title "Btk" in order to reduce the crime of hidden resources. This proposal was also rejected by László Kövér; it seems that this cannot be discussed in the parliamentary commission, so let us speak here, raising the question to the level of the plenary session, let me draw attention to the fact that the regulation of classified cases of disorderly conduct in the current Btk. has unfortunately broken off the system used in the old Btk. and has abolished the definition of a classic and, at the same time, of a qualified case as a stand-alone case. The legislator, the Fidesz majority, justified this current legislation by the fact that the qualified cases of disorderly conduct threatened an excessive imprisonment of up to five years and had to change that in the current Btk. But I think it's more like the Btk. I think we should talk about tightening it up. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause for the representatives of our country.]]
u2022-10-10-196	Thank you. Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, applied for a speech on the agenda titled Orbán, among them the cities of Debrecent. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-10-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, That's true. But let's look back a little bit, because it was not so long ago when the Oligarchs of the NER and the Orbán mafia were looking for fat during the epidemic, and that is no different now, because we see huge money being cut off from the crisis surrounding us, while the majority of Hungarian society is now struggling to survive. Now there are many, millions of people, faced with the orbital lie that Orbán and Fidesz were able to win in the elections. That they would protect families from inflation, that for the next 15 years cheap energy would be available to everyone, because Viktor Orbán is Putin's best friend, and he alone could and will be able to conclude a long-term fixed-price contract with the Russian government. But now the lie has been covered, and the truth remains. In the last 12 years, Orbán's unscrupulous kleptocracy has robbed our country of industry, agriculture, and the forint today is not worth as much as the paper on which it was printed. And the government, as if nothing had happened, continues to push its lies into our faces in its propaganda, built and operated from hundreds of billions. However, I'll tell you a secret: there is not enough billion forints left to cover up the endlessly-spoken lie-cunam. The Orbán system is creaking. The country's currency reserves have run out, and there's not enough in the register that the government can cover for the next three months. It is clear that the increasingly confused Prime Minister has failed not only Hungarian citizens, but also local governments. Let's talk a little bit about Debrecen, because contrary to what the Secretary of State of Rétvári has just set up in the walls of Parliament today, schools there are now bringing only eight schools together. This means that four schools will be closed because the Debrecen vocational school can't pay and manage energy prices. At the same time, it is possible to remove the word "Community" from the concept of "Community transport" in Debrecen, because bus services had to be reduced to a catastrophic extent, because DKVs simply cannot pay the price of fuel, so that this transport is considered to be everything but public transport. Of course, the inflation in Orbán, the collapse of the overhead system, is not nearly the end of the local government restrictions, and Debrecen is getting plenty of them. They're just listening, trying to hide it, or possibly feeding it to the local society, and what's next is that they're probably gonna close baths and swimming pools here, and God knows what else, maybe they're gonna turn off the streetlight, or they're gonna drastically reduce it. In addition, there is also the obscurity of a nuclear bomb thrown down to large cities, which threatens Debrecen, which is that the heat energy of district heating apartments is given to municipalities 10-15 times more expensive than in the last year. The costs of this will, in principle, have to be managed by the municipalities. However, anyone who is a little bit more familiar with the operation of the municipalities, who has seen this before, knows very well that this cannot be done anymore, can no longer be sabotaged by the municipalities, that this is the end, the end of the municipalities as well. The government, the weak forint, the stolen and refurbished utility assets, the infernal energy prices are all, one by one, fatal to the municipalities, since the already bled, resource-less municipalities can no longer bear a penny more face, burden, and least of all. I have to say, the smell of passing is all over the country right now. But it's only autumn, Indian summer, as they say, when you don't have to heat it, even in district heating apartments, the frosts haven't stopped yet, it's still winter coming. The winter, which, unfortunately, would bring disaster for many people, as a lot of people can freeze in their unheated, dark homes, because they will not be able to pay the high bills in hell, which is largely due to the failed 12-year economic policy of the Orbán government. Winter will kill the local governments, including the big cities first, and, unfortunately, Debrecent, who will kill the bestial cruelty because of the Orbán course. He'll execute you if we let him. But we're not gonna let that happen. Thank you.
u2022-10-10-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, MP Miklós Hajnal, representative of the Momentum, applied for a post-scheduled speech. It's an address.
u2022-10-10-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Originally, Annex II is replaced by the following: I was going to deal with the outcome of a district interim election, but this Monday morning, something happened that had to prevent any political battle and political debate. I would also like to thank hundreds of parents and students, young people, who gathered at the Central Buda District Centre between 8:00 and 9:00 a.m. to show solidarity with teachers. The demands of the parents in Buda were also sent to the head of the school district today. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are looking forward to your reply as soon as possible, hopefully, of a reassuring and non-threatening nature. Here I would like to move on to how we engage in dialogue, how we listen to problems and how we solve them. Because there is no question that Buda, except perhaps the district, is setting an example for the whole country. The last one was II. district election also confirmed that this is how to work locally. Since April this year, there has not been as much participation as in Buda on 2 October, and voters have voted in a huge proportion to our joint opposition candidate, Eszter Nagy. Of course, in Buda we are not in opposition, in 2019 the II. District opposition alliance won and put the government's leadership on a new footing. Under the mayor of Gergely Orsi, Buda's true community has become a common home for all of us. [[15.40]] Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The district is on a new Here people listen to each other, the local government listens to and solves our problems. I am very proud to represent this district and this neighborhood, Bel-Buda, here in the National Assembly. Where the election was now, only in those few streets, this community has solved several problems or prolonged problems that have not been solved for decades, in the last few years: a safe pedestrian crossing was built at the corner of Fillér and Káplár utca, with the remodelling of Marczibányi tér reduced the traffic pressure on the area, and life on the Margaret Boulevard moved again with the Margaret Quarter, and with the power of the community we renewed the Marczibányi tér playground not too long ago. And by the way, I didn't even mention the results of the rest of the district or the district as a whole. To highlight just a few examples: the renovation of the Kapás street office has begun, the tax burden of local pensioners has been reduced, as well as the II. district institutions can remain open during the winter despite the increase in overhead costs. Obviously there are difficult times in Hungary today, and this is especially true for the municipalities, but we must continue the work we started, and we can count on our new representative, Eszter Nagy, and the Buda people can count on it. The overwhelming victory of Eszter Nagy and the district alliance shows the success of this local government. The victory in October is an important message, this election says that not party political battles, but only working together can lead forward our communities, our district and ultimately the country. This election sends a message that there is a need for people here to be heard, for local initiatives to be taken. This is why the district management has made serious commitments for the future: for example, we create exclusive residential parking spaces, we eliminate the Fény utca bum parking, otherwise we continue to renew the market, and we reduce the noises after closing in Lövőház Street. I am sure that, as the previous commitments have been met, they will be effective in the coming years, and that the first and most important starting point in our work will continue to be the hearing of the residents. I thank everyone who took part in this interim election, regardless of party colors, and I wish you every success in the work of the coming years from here to Parliament in the second. the municipal administration of the district. Way to go, Buda. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-10-10-200	Thank you very much, Congressman Dawn. After the agenda, Mr.Péter Jakab applied for a speech:. That was enough! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-10-10-201	Thank you very much. Colleagues! Well, the situation is dramatic, to put it mildly. Let us say frankly that we are six months after the election that the Hungarian state has basically become inoperable; we are saying that the Hungarian state is unable to curb inflation, unable to control the increase in prices, unable to control the increase in gas prices, and unable to organise the heating of public institutions at all. We are at the point that the child will have to sit at 18 degrees in the school bench, but in the winter months the Hungarian state cannot guarantee even this 18 degrees, so they say that the child should go home, have a longer winter break, solve at home what the Hungarian state cannot solve at school. So what are we paying all these taxes for? ! Well, fellow Members, here the Hungarian people are paying taxes on work, paying taxes on food, paying taxes on petrol, paying rent, in exchange for the Hungarian state, the government, you are not able to heat the school to 20 degrees or pay the teachers? No, they can't. We need the money for national consultation, we need the money for Vodafone, we need to renovate the hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros, and we need to build the ten billion Orbán residence in Hatvanpuszta. The Hungarian man will literally die from paying bills, and you will still be eating public money like there is no tomorrow. That's not what you promised, fellow Members. That's not what they promised! They did not promise to give the 12 HUF electricity to the population for 70 HUF. They didn't promise to skyrocket the system usage fee for Lőrinc Mészáros. They didn't promise to execute the small businesses of Katás, to fire the teachers, to strangle the Hungarian financially. No! You promised me we'd keep the rent cut. They promised that they would support small entrepreneurs, that health care workers, teachers, that they would raise wages and pensions. It has become a austerity, but it is a austerity that this country has never seen: inflation is slowly exceeding 20 percent, the price of bread has been increased by 100 percent, the price of gas has been increased by 700 percent, pensions will be increased by 13 percent, and the salary of the majority of workers has been increased by exactly 0 percent, or zero percent. That's not what they promised! That is not what they promised, fellow Members, but they promised that everything would develop here. Now that the truth is out, at least you have to be brave. Now stand up in front of the Hungarian people and ask them, they still want you, they want Fidesz, they want Orbán. Do you want austerity, record inflation, an 18-degree classroom, a constant war, or would you rather make peace with the European Union so that real crisis management can finally start in Hungary? The People's Party Movement demands a new election, we demand a new election, where the Hungarian people can now give their opinion on you in the possession of the truth, and where the Hungarian people can finally show what the real cooperation is, not the cooperation of the parties, but the cooperation of the people. Because, fellow Members, you can play right here, you can play left here, you can instigate the Hungarian against each other, only, you know, the fact is that the seven-time gas price and the thousand-forint bread will bring the right to the ground as well as the left. Let us finally take note of this, and I say to my fellow opposition Members, above all, that when we are fighting against a regime, there is no right and no left, no conservative and no liberal. When we are fighting against a regime, there are only two sides: either on Fidesz's side or on the people's side, there is no third way. Parliament should disband itself and make a new election in Hungary! I'll stay on the side of the people. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the Momentum.]]
u2022-10-10-202	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter James. Dear Parliament, They will now take the oath of their representatives and sign the oaths. I would ask Mr Ákos Hadházy to take his oath while remaining in his seat, and I would ask Mr Dániel Kárpa Z to read out the text of the oath, and I would ask the members of the Chamber to stand up and listen to it according to our custom. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Ákos Hadházy stands up on his seat, holding a table in his hand, on which the inscription is:.STOP PROPAGANDA. Dániel Z. Carpathian reads the text of the oath.]]
u2022-10-10-203	I, Ákos Hadházy, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation.
u2022-10-10-204	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr László Földi to prepare the oath papers for signature and Mr Ákos Hadházy to sign them. [[It's happening. László Földi leaves a copy of the signed oath document on the table of Dr. Ákos Hadházy.]] Mr László Földi and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, I would like to ask that the House Rules of Decision 10/A. Pursuant to paragraph 7 of Section 7 of the Act, the validity of Mr Ákos Hadházy's oath document shall be verified. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy is moving towards the exit of the Chamber and then turning back.]] In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, the validity of Mr Ákos Hadházy's oath document shall be verified. (Dr. Ákos Hadházy moves towards the exit of the Chamber and then turns back.) Dear Parliament, I'll call it in. [[László Földi and Dániel Z. Carpathian nod.]] Mr. Ákos Hadházy's oath document was found by the notaries to be in order. [[Applause in opposition lines. Dr. Ákos Hadházy was first congratulated by Ferenc Gelencsér, then Bence Tordai and Dr. László György Lukács.]] I wish the Member, on behalf of Parliament and myself, good work and good luck. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy is leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 24 October 2022. Thank you for your work, good afternoon. The meeting's closed.
