u2022-05-02-0	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Parliament, I respectfully welcome the participants in the inaugural session. I open the inaugural session of the new Parliament following the election of Members of Parliament in 2022. Please sing our National Anthem together. [[The representatives of the DK fraction shall not be present in the Chamber. The people in the room sing the Anthem together, and then take a seat.]] On the basis of the Act on Parliament, representatives elected in the general election of Members and national minority spokespersons who set up a list of nationalities, but who do not take up the mandate, shall submit their credentials to the President of the Republic prior to the inaugural session of the Parliament. The credentials have been taken over by my colleagues in the last few days. I declare that, in accordance with the law, all 11 representatives of 199 Members and 11 ethnic advocates have submitted their credentials until the inaugural meeting. Dear Parliament, The House Rule of Decision 7. On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Act, until the announcement of the establishment of the House Committee, the inaugural meeting shall be chaired by the interim president. I now call on Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács to act as interim president. I would like to announce that I have made the credentials submitted to me for the purpose of examining the mandate of the interim president and the date-bookers. I give the chair of the meeting to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Mr President. Thank you for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács, the interim president, shakes hands with Dr. János Áder, President of the Republic, and then takes the chair. Dr. János Áder, President of the Republic, accompanied by the commander of the decorative guard, will take his place in the decorative box.]]
u2022-05-02-1	Dear Parliament, Allow me, too, to welcome all the participants in the inaugural session, our guests and everyone who monitors these festive moments. I declare that, under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, the notaries' duties until the election of the officials are held, the eight youngest Members, Ferenc Varga, Bernadett Bakos, Noémi Végh, Péter Ungár, Zsófia Koncz, Lőrinc Nacsa, Illés Boglárka, Dóra Dúró, are registered. On this basis, I would like to ask Dora Dúró and Lőrinc Nacs to help me now in leading this meeting. Dear Parliament, It is a tradition and a good tradition for the interim president to tell some thoughts to his fellow Members, the public of the country. However, I believe that this period is extraordinary in many respects. [[11.10]] Therefore, I have come to the belief that not only is it not appropriate, but I believe that it would not be useful, as a Member, even if it were the oldest, to give a political speech. I think that we will specifically expect the guidance from our old and new Prime Minister here, which will give us the certainty that we will be able to build on for the years to come. For my part, I would just like to say a few modest thoughts, indeed, as a Member who is the oldest of the unfathomable will of fate. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear House, The parliamentary election was indisputably clear and free. It is undisputed that, in the parliamentary elections, citizens clearly voted that the NER, the system of national cooperation, which has started 12 years ago and has been mocked so much by the opposition, should continue. They also made clear that Hungary rejects the war and is in favour of peace. These two thoughts are, I think, what is most important now, because the rebuilding of NER gives us the opportunity to protect families. It ensures that we can continue the national rescue programme without which Hungary's eclipse would not be stopped. We believe and hope that we have the methods and opportunities, we have the will and the will to reverse these bad trends, and Hungary will be a growing, growing country again. Dear House, My hope, perhaps my special hope, is that we will remain in the coming period, without fail against the war, on the side of peace. In Europe today, I must say that there are only two visible pro-peace leaders: one Pope Francis and the other, our Prime Minister, sitting here. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear House, I lived World War II first as a child and then as a young man, and I dare say that humanity has no greater enemy than the war that results in destruction, moral and material destruction, and the destruction of life. I am convinced that this is not the future of Hungary, this is not its fate. For my part, I ask for the blessing of God in the coming period to our President of the Republic, our Prime Minister, every member of the Parliament, although he should sit on either side of the horseshoe, and perhaps he does not wish it; I wish it, because it can never be wrong if we live with God's blessing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the agenda for the inaugural session. This has been published on the parliamentary website for all of them. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda for the inaugural session. Dear Parliament, A report by the President of the National Election Committee on the activities of the National Election Committee in the general elections held on 3 April 2022. The report is dated B/1. Available on the website. I give the floor to Dr. András Téglási, president of the National Election Commission, within a five-minute timeframe.
u2022-05-02-2	Mr President of the Republic. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, Dear Parliament, According to the Act on Election Procedure, the President of the National Election Committee will report to Parliament on the activities of the National Election Committee in the election after the general elections. In accordance with this obligation, I have prepared a written report and, as has been customary, I will present it orally at the inaugural session. You have received the written report, and I do not wish to repeat it, and I do not wish to justify it in detail. However, I would like to highlight some of the important points made in the report. The National Election Committee already acted on the basis of the legislative provisions applied in the previous two general electoral procedures in the general election of Members of Parliament in 2022. The election took place in a well-known and predictable legislative environment for both voters and electoral bodies, as well as nominating organisations and candidates. [[11.20]] The rules on the composition of the National Election Committee have not changed compared to the previous two parliamentary elections. Four of the members of the National Election Committee elected in 2013, including the Deputy Chairman of the Committee, are currently members of this Committee. The committee operated with 18 members during the period between 23 March 2022 and the day of the Parliament's inaugural meeting. During the 2022 election, a significant part of the committee's decision was the first- and second-level assessment of redress procedures for breaches of the electoral campaign rules. The requests for redress were particularly relevant to a number of subjects, which I presented in detail in my written report. As regards the decisions determining the outcome of the election, I would like to point out here only the fact that, unlike the previous two parliamentary elections, the result of the single constituency election was not disputed in any case. In the period from the establishment of the election to the rise of the national list result, only 19% of the total 340 decisions taken by the committee were appealed against, i.e. 81 percent of our decisions were not subject to an appeal. As a result of the judicial redress procedures submitted, 3 percent of our decisions have been changed overall. The detailed statistical statement of the Committee's decisions is also set out in the Annex to the report. To conclude my report, I would like to thank the electoral bodies for their high-quality, conscientious, laborious and competent work, in particular with regard to their involvement in carrying out and organising this particular task in the emergency situation. Thanks to their work, the general election of the Members of Parliament in 2022 was effectively carried out in accordance with the current legislative provisions. The final and credible result published may be carried out in accordance with house rules on the basis of the electoral protocols signed by the members of the electoral committees and the mandates of the delegates transferred. Finally, please allow me to recall to this House the native saying I read from István Kukorelly, former President of the National Election Committee, at the time of the compromise, and which sounds to me that this House is a reflection of the nation. In this spirit, I wish the elected Members of Parliament, as well as the appointed ethnic advocates, good health on behalf of the National Election Committee for their work in the interests of nation and nationality, so much strength and success. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept my report. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor and for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-02-3	Dear Parliament, A report by the President of the National Election Office on the organisation and conduct of state tasks related to the general election of Members of Parliament held on 3 April 2022. Report B/2. Available on the website. I give the floor to Dr. Attila Nagy, president of the National Election Office in a five-minute time frame.
u2022-05-02-4	Mr President of the Republic. Mr. President! Common Law and Church Dignitaries! Excellent Ladies and Gentlemen! Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. I congratulate all Members, advocates and nominating organisations. I congratulate your colleagues, as well as the relatives and family members of the congressional ladies and gentlemen who have lived through the election campaign with you. For the first time in Hungary's history, general parliamentary elections and national referendums were held on one day in a joint procedure, which, although it was a serious additional task for all contributors, the organisation and conduct were smooth. In keeping with my statutory obligation, I have prepared and submitted a report on this, and I would like to point out the following. First, I'm in the field of information technology. The official website of the elections has been completely transformed over the past year and a half, the fruits of which we have all seen and experienced. The information on the Internet worked without interruption from the date of the appointment, including the evening of the election. A few words about organizing. More than 20,000 sworn employees in the election offices performed the election tasks. The election committees had nearly 50,000 elected members and more than 40,000 delegates. The election was supervised by 906 international observers and 371 observers appointed by the nominating organisations. These figures are very important in the light of the fact that the reports and reports published from them, a large part of which is also known from the press, are a picture of an election according to the electoral principles. I can say that the elections were held without interruptions, in time, with continuous Internet information, in accordance with Hungary's Fundamental Law and the law. I would also like to express my thanks to all the actors involved in the preparation and implementation for their dedicated tasks and constructive cooperation. I'm going to say a few words about two of our major innovations. One is that from 2021 de-cember the National Election Office published the electoral staff data on a weekly basis, broken down by constituency and locality, from which it became clear that there was no significant change in these data. The other thing is that it has proved useful to recommend the so-called " who" that has been developed to prevent abusive collection of recommendations? It is a service with which voters were able to ask electronically that someone else made a recommendation on their behalf to any candidate anywhere in the country. More than 130,000 voters have used this new service. About my legislative proposals briefly. In the coming weeks, in addition to my direct colleagues, we will evaluate the electoral procedure with the heads of regional and parliamentary single mandate constituency electoral offices, and I will draw up my proposals for legislative amendments to the elections on the basis of our practical experience and lessons learned from them. In the front, I'd like to live with a sign. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the number of voters in seven single-member constituencies exceeded the national average by more than 20% on the day of the vote, so it is necessary to amend the mandate of the constituency. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to point out that the organisation of elections is not simply a task or project to be carried out, but a prerequisite for the exercise of representative power, which I and my colleagues experience as a joyful and inspiring profession. It was a great honor for me to be part of this work. Today, the Parliament will begin its work. Hash, create, increase, and the country will be brighter. In these words of Ferenc Kölcsey, I wish you good work, and for your decisions, I ask for the help of God. Dear Parliament, Please accept my report on the general election of Members of Parliament in 2022. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.30]]
u2022-05-02-5	Dear Parliament, The Rules of Procedure 11. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the accounts after a report on the control of the oath documents, without debate. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members of the Council to examine their mandates. We will examine the credentials of Members and Spokespersons on the basis of electoral documents, acting as a body for the examination of mandates, together with the date notes. The House Rule of Decision 8. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Article, the first five representatives of the register, Péter Ágh, István Apáti, András Aradszki, Gergely Arató and István Bajkai, shall examine the credentials of the age president and the date-bookers, acting as a body. The board is now formed. I'd like to ask the members of the board, along with the clerks, to go to the Szacsvay room from the Dome Hall. Dear Parliament, I am now ordering a 20-minute recess for the term of office. (Sunning: 11.31 11.59 President: Dr Béla Turi-Kovács Recorders: Illés Boglarka and Végh Noémi)
u2022-05-02-6	Dear Parliament, In the leadership of the meeting, I will be assisted by Boglarka Elijah and Noémi Végh. I declare that the Bureau has completed its proceedings. We will now continue our work with the mandate certificate. I would like to ask Mr Péter Ágh to present the results of the examination of the term of office of the interim president and the date-bookers.
u2022-05-02-7	Dear Parliament, On the basis of the electoral documents, the first five representatives of the register examined the credentials of the interim president and the date-bookers. He found all of these to be legal. On this basis, we recommend to the Parliament that the term of office of the interim president and of the notaries be verified. Thank you for the floor. [[John Lazarus: It was a splendid speech. A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-02-8	Dear Parliament, With the help of the staff of the National Election Office (NEC), the body of mandates, consisting of the interim president and the contemporaries, examined a number of credentials and electoral documents submitted to the President of the Republic. The Panel concluded that all of these were in compliance with the law. The seats shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. It is now up to the resolution of the inaugural session by the first vote on machinery, before which we shall carry out a presence check on technical grounds. Please make sure that your voting card is placed in the voting machine and press one of its buttons. [[It's happening. The result appears on the display: 188 is present, 11 is away.]] I'm going to determine that 199 buttons have been pressed. [[For signal:]] Parliament has a quorum. If someone's voting machine didn't work, I'm asking if it didn't work, please signal it because it's going to be improved. [[12.00]] Dear Parliament, I propose to the Parliament that, by its decision, it justify the mandate of the Members of Parliament and of the Speakers. Please vote by clicking the button. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the mandate of the Members and Spokespersons was confirmed by the Parliament by 196 votes in favour, not by votes and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Boglárka Elijah and Noémi Végh to present a list of certified representatives and advocates.
u2022-05-02-9	Dear Parliament, The list of certified representatives shall be as follows: Péter Ágh Dr. István Apáti Dr. András Aradski Gergely Arató Dr. István Bajkai Bakos Bernadett Péter Balassa György Balla Mihály Balla Erik Bánki Gábor Bányai Attila Barcza Balázs Barkóczi Mónika Bartos Zsolt Becsó Dávid Bedő János Bencze János Bencsik Sándor Berki Sándor Bodó Zoltán Bóna Dr. Brenner Koloman Dr. Gyula Budai György Czerván Dr. Judit Bertalan Czunyiné Antal Csárdi Peter Cseresnyés Katalin Cöbör Béla Dankó Dr. Ferenc Dávid Dr. András Demeter Zoltán Demeter Dávid Dócs Csaba Dömötör Mónika Dunai Dóra Dúró Norbert Erdõs Gábor Erős F. Sándor Kovács Mr Sándor Farkas Dr. Sándor Fazekas András Fekete-Győr Dr. János Fónagy Sándor Font Gyula Földesi László Földi Attila Gelencsér Ferenc Gelencsér Zsolt Gréczy Gergely Gulyás Dr. Gurmai Zita Lot. Erzsébet Németh Gyopáros Alpár Balázs Győrffy Ferenc Gyurcsány Dr. Ákos Hadházy Miklós Dawn János Halász Dr. Tamás Bellozó Dr. János Harghitai Péter Harrach Andrea Hegedüs Hey, David. Csaba Hende Tamás Herczeg Zsolt Herczeg Dr. István Hiller Impressive Dezső István Hollik Dr. Peter Hoppál István Horváth László Horváth Dr. Richard Hörcsik Buttercup Elijah István Jakab Peter James András Imre Jámbor Dr. Hajnalka Juhász Dr. Mária Kállai Kálmán Olga Máté Kanász-Nagy Ákos Kara Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt Dr. János Kiss Máté Kocsis Dr. Zoltán Komáromi Imre Komjathi Dr. Zsófia Koncz Károly Kontra László Kordas Lajos Kósa Dr. József Kovács Mr Sándor Kovács Dr. Zoltán Kovács Zsolt Kovács László Fat Gábor Kubatov Ágnes Kunhalmi Dr. Zsolt Flame Dr. János Latorcai János Lázár Sándor Lezszak Lajos Levočei Dr. László György Lukács Mátrai Márta Dr. Tamás Mellar Tamás Menczer Dr. Lajos Ripper Béla Mihalffy Dr. Ágnes Molnár Dr. Zsolt Molnár József Attila Móring Nacsa Lőrinc Bálint the Great Csaba Nagy Dr. István Nagy Dr Tibor Navracsics Németh Szilárd István Zsolt Németh The Foreman of Novak Zsolt Nitrai Dr. Lajos Oláh Dr. Balázs Orbán Viktor Orbán Anna of Russia Péter Ovádi Dr. Gábor Presses Károly Panczél Dr. Imre Pesti János Pócs Tibor Pogácsás Dr. László Pósán Árpád János Potápi Bence Rétvári Imre Ritter Gábor Riz Antal Rogán Dr. László Salacz Zoltán Eagle László Sebian-Petrovski Éva Scars Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi Dr Zsolt Semjén Dr. Miklós Seszták Dr. István Simicskó Dr. Miklós Simon Balázs Simon Róbert Miklós Soltész János Süli István Szabadi Szabó Hajnalka Rebecca Szabó Sándor Szabó Szabolcs Szabó Szabó Timea Dr. Tünde Szabó Zsolt Szabó László Szászfalvi Kristóf Szatmáry Dr. Gyula Tamás Szeberényi Peter Szijjártó Attila Stojka Dr. Lajos Szűcs András Tállai Dr. Gergely Tapolczai László Tasó Zoltán Tessely Dr. István Tiba Dr. Attila Tilki Kristóf Márton Tompos Bence Turdai László Toroczkai Dr. Bertalan Tóth Endre Tóth Gábor Törő Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács Bence Tuzson Péter Ungár Zsolt V. Németh Dr. Ágnes Vadai Zoltán Vajda Ferenc Varga Gábor Varga Dr. Judit Varga Mihály Varga Zoltán Varga Tamás Vargha László Varju László Vécsey Noémi Végh Dr. Imre Vejkey László Vigh Dr. Winner Vinnai Eszter Vitályos Dr. István Vitányi Mihály Witzmann Z. Carpathian Daniel Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál Róbert Zsigó The list of ethnic advocates is as follows: Varga Simeon Koranis Laucratis Kresta Trajan József Szolga Dr. Rónayné Slaba Ewa Maria Akopjan Nikogos Giricz Vera Antal Paulik Ms Kissné Köles Erika Alexov Lyubomir Grexa Liliana [[12.10]]
u2022-05-02-10	Dear Parliament, It is now the solemn oath of the Members. Please stand to take the oath. [[The people present will stand up. The phantoms speak, the commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the presidential pulpit and requests permission from the early president to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, they march on both sides of the presidential pulpit with the flags. The commander of the decorative guard will take his place before the pulpit.]] Dear Parliament, Now I'm going to read the words of the oath. I,... vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. Ich, Emmerich Ritter schwöre, dass ich Ungarn und seinem Grundgesetz treu sein, sine Rechtsnormen einhalten und für deren Einhaltung sorgen werde; dass ich mei-ne Function als Nationalitätenabgeordneter zum Wohle der ungarischen Nation wahrnehmen werde. So wahr mir Gott helpe! [[Applause in the pro-government benches and in the ranks of our country.]] Dear Parliament, I announce that the Parliament has been formed. I would like to inform you that right after the inaugural meeting, the ethnic advocates will take an oath in the Parliament's Zsitvay Tibor Hall before the Speaker of Parliament, to which we welcome the invited. [[Representatives of DK and Momentum, as well as some members of the Dialogue faction, leave the meeting room.]] I also declare that, pursuant to Article 20 (1) of the Fundamental Law and paragraph 2 (a) of the Fundamental Law, the mandate of the Government has ceased with the establishment of the newly elected Parliament. Under Article 22 (1) of the Fundamental Law, until the establishment of a new government, the Government shall remain in office and exercise all the rights which the Government enjoys, but cannot recognise the binding effect of an international treaty, and it may create a decree only on the basis of the explicit authorisation of the law, in an indeterminate case. Dear Parliament, I now call on President János Áder to give his speech. (Applause in the pro-government benches.
u2022-05-02-11	Prime Minister! Mr. Speaker! Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. The Hungarian voters decided on 3 April. They have decided which parties, party associations, will be given parliamentary seats. They've decided who will handle the country's affairs. They have decided who has the responsibility of governance and who has the role of opposition. For the first time in Hungary's history, it was not 10-12 smaller or larger parties, who made up a national list, but two party alliances fought with each other, and the other players had a clear start from the start of the campaign. My countrymen's decision is clear and clear, it cannot be misunderstood, misinterpreted, misinterpreted, questioned. Since 1990, so many international observers have never participated in the control of parliamentary elections. There have never been so few redress procedures since the change of regime. The official final result of the election has never been born so early. The electorate's decision of 3 April is politically and legally unquestioned, and everyone must respect it. The legitimacy of the new Parliament and the future government is beyond any debate. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] First, I would like to thank all our countrymen who took part in the election. Secondly, I would like to thank all those who helped in the electoral districts, in the electoral committees, to carry out the vote and to those who, in the course of the appeal proceedings, have judged the objections submitted in a timely manner, thus ensuring the conditions for the establishment of Parliament today. Dear Parliament, According to Article 9 (3) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the President of the Republic proposes the person of the Prime Minister to the National Assembly. At our meeting on Friday, I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to form the new government, who accepted the request. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] The President of the Republic shall propose the person of the Prime Minister to the Parliament. At our meeting on Friday, I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to form the new government, who accepted the request. (Applause in the pro-government benches. ) I therefore propose that the Parliament elect Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary on the basis of the basic rule cited above. Dear House, For the last ten years, when I spoke before the National Assembly, I have often quoted Ferenc Deák, which is what I do now. In June 1872, when he was elected Parliamentary Representative for the fourth time, he wrote: If God has helped us so far, perhaps our efforts and the help of God will take us further on the path in which we want to secure the future of the country and the well-being of all its inhabitants. There were differences of opinion, there will be in politics, as in general, in all aspects of human function. It would not be good if there were no difference in political opinions, because it is precisely through differences of opinion that the truth can be grinded out. God only says to his fellow citizen, if he's an enemy, he's not an enemy. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the days following the election, as I thought that today's speech included the lessons of the campaign, I realized that our work is much more important than that of some Members with their troubled souls, indecipherable styles or the losing team. Let's deal with the interpretation of the strategy. [[There's a lot of information from the pro-government benches.]] So I'm talking more about the tasks ahead of us. The example of Ferenc Deák, the greats of the Reform Day or the preparatory of the 1867 Compromise shows that only yeses can build a country, but in order for this construction to be successful, to gain the trust of voters, they must first say no to some things. [[12.20]] It is necessary to say no to applying double standards, to self-serving, short-sighted policy, to serve foreign interests. [[András Jámbor laughs. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is necessary to say no to unconstitutional intentions, to disrupt society's calmness, to be unpeaceful. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You have to say no to lies, demagogy, characterlessness, demise; no to subpar speech. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I urge you to say yes in the coming years; yes to the representation of national interests, to the growth of the country, to the security of Hungarians. Yes to arguments that conflict with facts. But most importantly, say yes to our common successes, because we can all be happy for them. Let us welcome the results of our castle renovation programme to strengthen our national self-esteem, the long overdue infrastructure developments, the investments made to protect the created world, and our newly built health institutions. Let us rejoice in the renewal of our churches, our places of farewell, our monuments beyond the border. Let us rejoice in our new sports facilities, the successful world competitions, and be glad that the growth of our capital city with new and renovated buildings can only be measured with the millennium period. Joy and righteous pride that we can all feel, for the past years have been years of a significant increase in public wealth. We owe thanks and recognition to engineers, restorers, construction professionals, interior designers, everyone who has been involved in this work with his talent, knowledge and diligence. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It would be good for everyone to be able to enjoy each other's success: the Budapest people are increasing the countryside, the countryside is strengthening the capital. I encourage people living in villages, villages and towns to come to Budapest as often as possible, to see the renovated Opera House, to visit the Eiffel Workshop, to spend a few hours in the House of Hungarian Music. I could go on with the list of programs and locations for a long time. And I encourage those living in the capital to visit the countryside and across the border. From the rebuilt Castle of Rákóczi in Bors, through the renovated Mátraverebély-Szentkút Farewell, through the rebuilt Fortress of the Star of Komárom to the new sports facilities, you can see tangible evidence of the growth of our public goods, from here and beyond. Meanwhile, learn about the thinking, customs, traditions, taste the food of different landscapes, taste its wines, experience what it means to cultivate land, keep animals, and how much effort and resignation it involves. Experience what it means to thrive as a rural intellectual or entrepreneur. All well-willed people who care about Hungary and the growth of the Hungarian nation should reach out to each other, because, as Ferenc Deák warned us, he may be an opponent to his fellow citizen, but he should not be an enemy. Dear Parliament, If we look back on the past, I am happy to offer myself the belief that the fate of our country has improved. , said Ferenc Deák in his earlier speech. But it is not enough, we must not just look to the past, we must look to the future in particular. And then, even if I don't freak out, yet I look anxiously at the great crowd of things that are necessary in our country, and I look anxiously at the great crowd of things that are necessary in our country. Dear House, At the end of last year, in view of the favourable economic figures, we were rightly confident that we would overcome the economic difficulties caused by the Covid epidemic, even though we knew that high energy and commodity prices and rising inflation would mean that economic policy leaders would have to go through a difficult field. However, the Russian-Ukrainian war has changed everything around the world, including in the European Union and in Hungary. Why? For both governments and businesses, the price of gas is six times higher than the price of electricity in previous years. The war can maintain and even further increase the current significantly increased prices, making the world's supply of raw materials and raw materials significantly difficult, not only for iron and steel products, but also for a number of special industrial raw materials and agricultural products. According to European Commission data, the lack of tools and supplies has become alarming in the automotive, machine and printing industry, rubber industry, electronics industry and even in the pharmaceutical industry. The semiconductors are difficult to access, the microchips have to wait 30 weeks. The situation is further exacerbated by the fact that most of the palladium and neon gas needed for chip production comes from Russia and Ukraine. High inflation in low-income countries can lead to a livelihood crisis, increased social tension and political explosion. But inflation also raises serious issues for governments in developed countries who are drowning in debt. It is alarming that world debt, public and private sector debt, has doubled since 2007. Food prices should also be addressed separately. On 17 March, the UN Trade and Development Organization published a rapid report on the impact of a prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war on the world economy. Russia and Ukraine are key players in the global food market. The share of the two countries in world trade is 53 per cent for sunflower seeds and oil and 27 per cent for wheat. Of the basic cereals, one quarter of Turkey's imports, nearly a quarter of China's imports, and more than 10 percent of India's exports are from the two countries in the war. More than half of the wheat imports from 16 African countries came from the war zone. According to the United Nations, this year's harvest may be reduced by up to 50 percent due to acts of war, reduced production of fertilizers, damage to economic infrastructure and drought in winter and spring, leading to further drastic increases in prices, supply problems in poorer African and Asian countries, increased social tension and social explosions. For UN humanitarian actions, 85 percent of cereals were purchased from Russia and Ukraine. It is wrong to think that if there is not enough grain to feed the population and even humanitarian supplies are reduced, the impact will have on the living conditions of those living there and migration from the countries concerned. [[12.30]] UN Secretary General António Guterres doesn't ring the alarm by accident. Dear House, We don't need a special gift to see that it's a difficult year, hard years ahead of us. The Covid epidemic, though in a more solid form, is still here with us. The war seems to be going on, and an economic crisis is about to kick the door at us. The new Parliament and the new government will need all previous successful crisis management experience to steer Hungary's ship in the right direction in the raging sea of the world economy. The electoral mandate is clear, the task is humane, and success requires superhuman effort. But whatever difficulties you may face, whatever disputes you may have to endure, whatever sexual assaults you may be subjected to, never forget: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-02-12	I thank the President of the Republic for his words. Dear Parliament, Please stand and salute the national flag and historic flags. [[The commander of the decorative guard will step forward, and the flags will be used to signal the sound of the fanfares to leave the meeting room. The people present will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time to hand in and verify the signed oath papers. Together with the notaries, we shall, acting as a body, verify the oath of the Members. Decision No 10/A. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 3, the first five representatives of the register, acting as bodies, shall verify the oath documents of the interim president and the date-bookers. I'd like to ask the members of the board, along with the clerks, to go to the Szacsvay room from the Dome Hall. Dear Parliament, For the purpose of signing and checking the signed oath papers, I am now expecting a 20-minute trial break. The end of the break is marked by the bell. (Recess: 12.34 13.20) President: Dr Béla Turi-Kovács Recorders: Dr. Zsófia Koncz and Péter Ungár)
u2022-05-02-13	Dear Parliament, Zsófia Koncz and Péter Ungár will continue to assist me in the leadership of the meeting. I'm announcing that the audit of the oath papers has been completed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Ágh to present the results of the audit of the documents of the interim president and of the early clerks.
u2022-05-02-14	Dear Parliament, [[The sound system isn't working. Intercoms: Sound!]] Dear Parliament, The first five representatives on the list are the House Rules 10/A. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act of Accession of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the President of the Court of Justice of the He found all of these to be legal. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks. Kálmán Olga and Gergely Arató applaud.]]
u2022-05-02-15	Dear Parliament, A body composed of the interim president and the date-bookers to verify the oath documents is the House Rule 10/A of the Decision. All its representatives have carried out an audit of their oath documents pursuant to Article 5 of the Act. He found that Ákos Hadházy did not take an oath, so the Act on Parliament was 28. Pursuant to paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Parliament and the committees, he shall not participate in meetings, exercise his right to consult or vote, submit a motion, may not be elected to the posts of the Parliament or to a committee, shall not participate in the formation of a political group, nor shall he be entitled to remuneration. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] He shall not take part in the meetings of Parliament and committees, exercise his right to vote or to submit a motion, shall not be elected to the seats of Parliament or to a committee, shall not participate in the formation of a political group, nor shall he be entitled to remuneration. (Applause in the pro-government ranks. ) I'll have the technical staff turn off the congressman's computer. Dear Parliament, The Fundamental Law and the Parliament Act provide for conflicts of interest between its representatives and the Speaker's Office. I would like to ask Péter Ungár to make an announcement regarding the conflict of interest.
u2022-05-02-16	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that all Members and spokespersons have submitted statements of conflict of interest. Dávid Bedő, Ferenc Gelencsér, Andrea Hegedüs, Máté Kanász-Nagy, Anna Oros, Éva Sebők, Rebecca Szabó, Kristóf Tompos and Endre Tóth have declared that there is a cause of conflict of interest against them, so during the conflict of interest, the Parliament and the parliamentary committees may not exercise their right to vote, submit a motion or be entitled to remuneration. Dear Parliament, I declare that, in addition to the Members who have just been listed, all Members and advocates have made a negative declaration of conflict of interest, so that they can exercise their rights listed above at today's Parliament meeting.
u2022-05-02-17	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the staff of the technical box to turn off the machines of the listed representatives. Dear Parliament, It follows that the President of the National Election Committee will be responsible for the activities of the National Election Committee in the general election of Members of Parliament held on 3 April 2022. Decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the application of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union (not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union). I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the President of the National Election Committee B/1. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the report by 145 votes in favour, 38 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next is the B/2 on the organisation and administration of state tasks relating to the general election of Members of Parliament held on 3 April 2022. the decision of the accounts of the European Parliament and of the Council. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the President of the National Election Office B/2. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the report by 145 votes in favour, 39 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank, on behalf of all of us, the nearly 100,000 contributors who helped in the successful organisation and conduct of the 2022 parliamentary elections in the country. Dear Parliament, I declare that the parliamentary parties have formed their political group. The faction leaders of the house rule 12. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the group's name, the name of the group's leader and other officials and the list of members of the group were announced in writing. I invite Zsófia Koncz to present the names, numbers and group leaders of the formed political groups.
u2022-05-02-18	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the leader of the group of 117 members of the Hungarian Civic Federation is Máté Kocsis. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Kálmán Olga and Jámbor Imre András applaud.]] The leader of the 18-member group of the Christian Democratic People's Party is István Simicskó, Member. The leader of the 15-member group of the Democratic Coalition is Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány. The leader of the 10-member group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is Mr.Péter Jakab. Representative András Fekete-Győr is the leader of the 10-person group of the Momentum Movement. The leader of the 10 members of the Hungarian Socialist Party is Mr. Bertalan Tóth. The leader of the six-member group of the Dialogue for Hungary is Congressman Bence Tordai. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties, MSZP, DK, Dialogue and LMP. A statement from the ruling parties: Where is it?]] Representative László Toroczkai is the leader of the six-member group of Mi Hazank. [[Applause from the ranks of the ruling parties and our country.]] The leader of the five-member group of the Green Party of Hungary is Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2022-05-02-19	Dear Parliament, The election of the Speaker of Parliament by secret ballot follows. The Act on Parliament 6. In the absence of a joint nomination pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, the largest number of political groups, Fidesz, is entitled to make a motion on the person of the Speaker. I've received the relevant nomination. In view of this, S/3. In my proposal No.3 I initiated that Parliament elect Mr.László Kövér as Speaker of the House. [[13.30]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the provisions of the Act on Parliament, an amendment to this can not be tabled. The election of the Speaker shall be by secret ballot. Dear Parliament, Annex 1 to the Rules of Procedure contains the order of conduct of the secret ballot. I would ask Zsófia Koncz and Péter Ungár to present the most important information, and I would kindly ask my fellow Members to listen to the presentation in their place.
u2022-05-02-20	Dear Parliament, The rules of the secret ballot shall be as follows: during the vote, the chairman of the Parliament and the voter counting committee shall act. Members can take the ballots from the group corresponding to the initials of their names, in alphabetical order, in four groups, in the Danube corridor of the House's Lower House meeting room. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive a piece of ballot paper and an envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I would like to inform you that a voting booth may be used in the vote. I ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in the box 'yes', 'no' or 'no'.
u2022-05-02-21	The only way to vote is with the official ballots. It is a valid vote, which has been cast on the candidate on the ballot paper, with two intersecting lines placed in squares next to his name. The vote on which the Member's vote on whom or how it has been voted is invalid. The vote not cast on the official ballot paper is null; the one missing the stamp; and if the voter takes over the ballot paper, but does not throw it into the ballot box. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will involve it and replace it with a new card.
u2022-05-02-22	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that you have 20 minutes to vote. The opening and conclusion of the secret vote shall be indicated by the meeting room bell. I would ask my fellow Members to come to the table marked with a sign corresponding to the initial of their names, where they will receive the ballots. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the practice of previous formation meetings, you should take it with you and present your representatives' credentials before receiving the ballot. The ballot paper may only be handed over against it. After that, the fact of the recording on the register will be confirmed by your signature. Now I'm ordering a 40-minute break for the vote and the count. (Sunning: 13.33 14.30 a.m.) President: Dr Béla Turi-Kovács Bakos Bernadett and Ferenc Varga)
u2022-05-02-23	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Bernadett Bakos and Ferenc Varga will continue to assist me in leading the meeting. I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work, stating that there has been no event affecting the validity of the vote. I'll give you the results of the vote. In the secret ballot, 185 Members took the ballot. On the person of László Fatér, 185 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 2, the number of valid votes is 183, the number of votes is 170, the number of votes is not 13, there was no abstention. On this basis, the datebookers found that the election of the Speaker of Parliament was valid and effective. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] I declare that the Parliament has elected Mr László Kövér as President of the Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms: Yay! László Fat is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] Now it's time for the solemn oath. I call on Mr László Kövér, Speaker of the House, to come to the centre of the Chamber and take the oath, and I ask Members of Parliament to stand up and listen to it as usual. [[The people present will stand up. The National Flag Parliamentary Guard comes in from the Presidential Pulpit and, breaking the flag, stands in the middle of the hall for the duration of the oath.]] Dear Parliament, Now I'm going to read the words of the oath. [[The President reads the text of the oath, which Laszlo Fat repeats with his name.]]
u2022-05-02-24	I, László Kövér, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Speaker of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[In the benches of the governing parties, the representatives stand and applaud for a long time. After a round of applause, the members of the opposition will take their seats.]]
u2022-05-02-25	I now ask Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I ask Mr. Speaker László Kövér to sign them. [[It's happening. Lőrinc Nacsa, who signed the oath document, congratulates László Kövér and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] On behalf of the Parliament and myself, I congratulate Speaker László Kövér on his election, and I wish him effective work and good luck. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform my fellow Members in advance that the Speaker will receive congratulations in the Chamber, first from President János Áder. Thank you very much. [[A long applause in the benches of the governing parties. For László Kövér, first Dr. János Áder, Viktor Orbán, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Simicskó, Péter Ungár, Dr. Bertalan Tóth, László Toroczkai, Dr. György Lukázló Lukács, Dr. Tamás Sulyok, Dr. Zs Varga. András, Imre Ritter, Dr. Péter Polt, László Domokos, Dr. Ákos Kozma, Csaba Rigó, Balázs Rigó congratulations.]] Dear Parliament, The Vice-Presidents and the notaries will now be elected by open vote. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a joint motion from the leaders of the political groups, Mr Speaker S/4. In its proposal No.3 the Parliament has initiated the election of six vice-presidents, including the Vice-President responsible for the legislative process and twelve notaries. I would ask Mr Bernadett Bakos to explain the content of the proposals.
u2022-05-02-26	The S/4. Mr. Speaker of the House initiates that the vice-president of the Parliament should elect István Jakab, Sándor Lezsák, János Latorcai, Lajos Oláh and Dóra Dúró, Csaba Hende, Vice-President responsible for the legislative process; he shall elect Attila Gelencsér, Lajos Szűcs, István Tiba, Győr Vinnai, András Aradszki, László Földi, Attila Móring József, Dániel Z. Carpath, Dezső, Szabó Sándor, Dávid Dócs and Bernadette Bakos.
u2022-05-02-27	Dear Parliament, No amendments to the proposal may be tabled. The Parliament shall decide on the officials individually, without debate. I ask you to elect István Jakab as Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected István Jakab as Vice-President of the Parliament with 176 votes in favour, not votes in favour, with three abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Sándor Lezsák as Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Sándor Lezsák as Vice-President of the Parliament with 179 votes in favour, not in favour, with one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect János Latorcai as Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected János Latorcai as Vice-President with 180 votes in favour, not in favour, with 3 abstentions. Congratulations. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Lajos Oláh as Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Lajos Oláh as Vice-President by 183 votes in favour, not by vote and without abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dóra Dúró as Vice-President of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Dóra Dúró as Vice-President of the Parliament by 154 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Csaba Hende as Vice-President of the Parliament responsible for the legislation. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Csaba Hende as Vice-President of the Parliament responsible for the legislative process by 177 votes in favour, not votes in favour, with one abstention. [[14.40]] Dear Parliament, We now decide on the identity of the notaries of the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Attila Gelencsér as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament elected Attila Gelencsér to the notary of the Parliament with 179 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Lajos Szűcs as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Lajos Szűcs as notary of the Parliament with 175 votes in favour, no votes against, with four abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects István Tiba as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected István Tiba as the notary of the Parliament with 179 votes in favour, no votes against, with three abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Victor Vinnai as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Győző Vinnai to the notary of the Parliament with 179 votes in favour, no votes against, with three abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Andras Aradski as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Andras Aradszki as the notary of the Parliament with 178 votes in favour, no votes against, with three abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Földi as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected László Földi as the notary of the Parliament with 180 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Attila József Móring as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Attila Móring József as the notary of the Parliament with 176 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Dániel Z. Carpathian as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Dániel Z. Kárpát as the notary of the Parliament. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I didn't announce the results. I repeat the announcement of the result: the Parliament elected Dániel Z. Kárpát to the notary of the Parliament by 181 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dezső Believer to be the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Dezső Believing was elected by the Parliament with 183 votes in favour, not without a vote and without abstention to the notary of the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Sándor Szabó as notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: elected by 177 votes in favour, without vote and without abstention to the notary of Sándor Szabó. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Dávid Dócs as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Dávid Dócs as the notary of the Parliament with 171 votes in favour, not without a vote, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Bernadett Bakos as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Bernadett Bakos to the notary of the Parliament with 181 votes in favour, not with no vote and no abstention. Dear Parliament, On behalf of all of us, I congratulate the elected officials, and wish them success in performing their work. Dear Parliament, I declare that, with the formation of the political groups and the election of the officials of the Parliament, the House Committee has been established. Members of the House Committee: Mr László Kövér Speaker; István Jakab, Sándor Lezsák, János Latorcai, Lajos Oláh, Vice-President Dóra Dúró, Vice-President Csaba Hende; and Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, István Simicskó, KDNP, Ferenc Gyurcsány, DK, Péter Jakab, Jobbik, András Fekete-Győr, Momentum, Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, Bence Tordai, Dialogue, László Toroczkai, Péter Mi Hazank and Ungár, leader of the LMP Group. Dear Parliament, I hereby hand over the leadership of the meeting to Speaker László Kövér, and thank the notaries for their work, and ask Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Believing to assist the Speaker in leading the meeting. (The President's seat is László Fat, the President of the Parliament, the notary seats of Dr. Lajos Szűcs and He is occupied by gullible Dezső.) [[14.50]]
u2022-05-02-28	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to begin my work and what I have to say with a commitment of thanks. First of all, on behalf of all of us, I thank the citizens who participated in the elections, who have honored us with their trust. Thank you to the employees of the Parliamentary Office, that, as has always been the case for the last 32 years, they have done excellently in the past four years, and today's inaugural meeting has also been prepared. Finally, I also thank my fellow Members for their vote in favour, which has once again given me the honour of this position. I promise that in the future I will continue to exercise my duties, duties, my conscience, my conviction, and to the best of my knowledge, in a predictable and equitable manner. Dear House, It is the 2nd of May, which is not only the day of the establishment of the ninth parliamentary assembly freely elected after the communist dictatorship, but also the day of the first. The restrictions caused by the pandemic prevented us from remembering in a dignified manner the 30th anniversary of the formation of the first freely elected Parliament. Let's do this now. Let us pay tribute to Speaker György Szabad and to all our fellow Members who have established the opportunity to be together today. There are seven of us here today, who could take an oath 32 years ago. We have fellow Members who were not yet alive at the time, and there are, unfortunately, many who can no longer be among us from the previous eight Parliaments. If they were here, we could ask ourselves, 32 years ago, if this is where we wanted to go. In which the majority of the Members of the time were likely to agree, the intention was to build a strong Hungarian state, independent, living in peace with its neighbours, reuniting with European cooperation as an equal partner, ensuring the growth of a nation that was united regardless of national borders. Although we can appreciate the performance of past parliaments and governments in different ways, as well as the quality of our present states, it is undeniable, however, because the facts and figures prove irrefutablely that our nation, our society and our families' state, situation and chances of success today are better than ever since the beginning of the regime change. Perhaps I am not mistaken if I say that this is the most powerful factor in the evolution of the results of the election. Hungary is today a strong, rising country with authority, which offers every citizen a viable home and a future, and which no one in European politics can ignore. Looking back on our history since World War I, but perhaps even for the past half a millennium, the prospects of home and progress, independence and growth have never painted a picture as good as it has in the last decade. Yet, in contrast to this, we must also say that we are living in the age of danger. All that has been achieved with the work of the last 32 years, through its efforts, trials, failures and successes, is again under threat today. A financial-economic crisis, illegal migration, a pandemic and now a new war in our neighbourhood with risks beyond our control, all in the context of a new totalitarianism which has lost confidence and identity, which has started to decline economically and demographically, in a green and rainbow robe, but which reminiscent of brown and red colour, and in the context of new empire-building efforts that are increasingly challenging our sovereignty. Putting our strength and abilities into greater use than ever before, with greater discipline than ever before, can only be sufficient to cope with the coming storm. [[Bence of Turdai returns to the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Our responsibilities are joint and several. Although the majority belongs to the pro-government side, the opposition shares this. I am convinced that I am also expressing the expectations of not only myself but also of the vast majority of voters, if I were to say that it is time, in view of the historical situation, that we all have to focus on where, in what way we can help the efforts of the community, and if someone can't help us or doesn't want to, at least don't hurt us. At the lowest level, according to his oath, everyone is obliged to comply with the Fundamental Law and the resulting legislation. If I was listening, the sound of the campaign could be a starting point for recreating the common denominator without which no democracy can function in a healthy way. And this is how it sounds: power belongs to the people. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, May God give us sufficient wisdom and strength to serve the nation in the power, oath, honor and loyalty vested in us by the people at the parliamentary elections. Thank you for your trust. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties and our country.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. In view of the fact that no political agreement was reached during the preparation of the inaugural meeting, the motions for standing committees were tabled separately by the group leaders. The Act on Parliament 18. Pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Act on the Establishment of Committees, the election of Members and Officials of Parliament H/5. My proposal, which is available on the National Assembly's IT network. I would like to inform you that the decision on the proposal for a decision will take place in more detail, as, in the absence of a political agreement, I do not see the possibility of deciding on the establishment of a Commission system, the election of committee members and officials by a single vote. First, the establishment of the Commission system will be decided together with the election of the members of the committee, and then the Commission officials will be elected from among the members of the committee. We decide about them, like the election of the Vice-Presidents and notaries of the Parliament, individually. The Act on Parliament 18. § 4 of the Parliament shall decide on the proposal without debate on the basis of an amendment to the personal proposal for members and officials of the Committee. The decision will take place after the upcoming hearing. Dear Parliament, Pursuant to the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, the head of the House is proposed by the Speaker of Parliament. [[15.00]] On this basis, I propose that Congressman Márta Mátrai elect to be a housekeeper. Dear Parliament, The Act on Parliament 11. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) (g), the Parliament shall decide on the person nominated for the office of the housekeeper after the hearing of the House Committee. So I'm about to take a 30-minute break, and I'm asking the members of the House Committee to please come to the Pázmándy Dénes room, number 11 of the main floor. The end of the break will be marked by a ring. (Recess: 15.01.15.40) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-05-02-29	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. [[Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The House Committee held a meeting in which she listened to Mrs Mátrai Márta. The Parliament now decides on the person of the landlady by an open vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Márta Mátrai as the Housekeeper of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House, together with Gábor Riz's vote, has unanimously elected Congresswoman Mátrai as a member of the House with 145 votes in favour. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the landlady and wish her assignment and work good luck. With his election, the House Committee has become full. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that right after the inaugural meeting, the national minority advocates will take an oath in the Parliament's Zsitvai Tibor Hall before the Speaker of Parliament, to which we respectfully await the elected officials. I would remind you that President János Áder asked Mr Orbán to be Prime Minister and presented his proposal to the Parliament at the meeting. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Prime Minister-designate Viktor Orbán has indicated that he wishes to take part in our meeting later. It follows a decision on the proposal for a resolution on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. In line with my previous announcement, I remind you that no political agreement was reached during the preparation of the inaugural session, and therefore, considering the factions, I submitted the H/5 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. My proposal, which is available on the National Assembly's IT network. The proposal also includes my proposal on the name of the committee representing nationalities and the person of its chairman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the National Defence and Police, Homeland Security and Foreign Affairs Committee today will only be able to elect members for whom national security controls have already been carried out. The other members may be elected later. I would like to inform you that the decision will be taken in several instalments. First, on the basis of points 1 to 3 and 5 to 7 of the proposal for a decision, we decide on the establishment of the Commission system together with the election of the members of the committee, and thereafter, according to point 4 of the proposal for a decision, we elect Commission officials from among the members of the committee. We're gonna make a personal decision about them. The Act on Parliament 18. § 4 of the Parliament shall decide on the proposal without debate on the basis of an amendment to the personal proposal for members and officials of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that H/5. It shall establish its Commission system and elect the members of the committees in accordance with the provisions of points 1, 2, 3 and 5, 6, 7 respectively. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament set up its committee system unanimously with 161 votes in favour and elected the members of the committees. Now, from the committee members, H/5. Commission officials will be elected in accordance with point 4 of the proposal for a decision. The election of candidates to become officials shall be decided individually. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Richard Hörcsik as Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Richard Hörcsik as Chairman of the Committee by 162 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zoltán Tessely as Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected Zoltán Tessely as Vice-President of the Committee by 161 votes in favour, not by vote, with one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Péter Balassa as Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has unanimously elected Peter Balassa as Vice-President of the Committee by 161 votes in favour. I ask this House to elect László Lóránt Keresztes as Chairman of the Committee for Sustainable Development. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 161 votes in favour, the House unanimously elected Lóránt Keresztes as Chairman of the Committee. I ask this House to elect János Bencsik as Vice-President of the Committee for Sustainable Development. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House elected János Bencsik, acting unanimously, with 162 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Béla Turi-Kovács as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has unanimously elected Béla Turi-Kovács as Vice-President of the Committee by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Rebecca Szabó as Vice-President of the Committee for Sustainable Development. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has unanimously elected Rebecca Szabó as Vice-President of the Committee with 159 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Erik Bánki as Chairman of the Economic Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Erik Bánki was unanimously elected Chairman of the Economic Committee by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Attila Barcza as Vice-President of the Economic Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 162 votes in favour, the House unanimously elected Attila Barcza Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Sándor F. Kovács as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Sándor F. Kovács as Vice-President of the Economic Committee by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Ágnes Molnár as Vice-President of the Economic Commission. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Ms Molnár as Vice-President of the Committee by 162 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mihály Witzmann as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Mihály Witzmann as Vice-President of the Committee by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Miklós Seszták as Vice-President of the Economic Commission. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected Miklós Seszták, unanimously, by 163 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee. [[15.50]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mr. Dávid Ference as Vice-President of the Economic Commission. Please vote. [[Vote.]] With 160 votes in favour, the Parliament unanimously elected Mr Dávid Ference vice-president of the committee. I ask this House, it elects Tamás Mellár as Vice-President of the Economic Commission. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has elected Tamás Mellar, unanimously, with 159 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Lajos Kósa as Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Lajos Kósa, unanimously, by 162 votes in favour, to the Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee. I ask this House to elect Mónika Bartos as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament elected Mónika Bartos, unanimously, with 161 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Miklós Simon as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 162 votes in favour, the House unanimously elected Mr Simon as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask this House to elect László György Lukács as Vice-President of the Defence and Police Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected György Lukács as Vice-President of the Committee by 161 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Tamás Harangozó as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Tamás Harangozó, acting unanimously, with 161 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Imre Vejkey as president of the Justice Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected Imre Vejkey, unanimously, by 162 votes in favour, to the Chairman of the Judicial Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Judit Czunyiné Bertalan as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House elected Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, unanimously, by 163 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Judicial Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zoltán Kovács as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Zoltán Kovács as Vice-President of the Committee by 163 votes in favour. I ask this House to elect István Vitányi as Vice-President of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 161 votes in favour, the House unanimously elected István Vitányi Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Sebian-Petrovszki as Vice-President of the Justice Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 161 votes in favour, the House unanimously elected László Sebian-Petrovsk as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zoltán Vajda as Chairman of the Committee on Budgets. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Zoltán Vajda was elected chairman of the Committee on Budgets unanimously by the House with 162 votes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Ákos Kara as Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Ákos Kara was unanimously elected Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Lajos Szűcs as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Lajos Szűcs, acting unanimously, by 162 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Attila Tilki as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Attila Tilki was elected Vice-President of the Committee by 162 votes in favour, unanimously. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zsolt V. Németh as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Zsolt V. Németh was unanimously elected Vice-President of the Committee by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dániel Z. Kárpát as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 163 votes in favour, the House unanimously elected Dániel Z. Kárpát as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Pósán as Chairman of the Cultural Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] László Pósán was elected president of the Cultural Committee by 162 votes in favour, unanimously. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zoltán Demeter as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Zoltán Demeter was unanimously elected Vice-President of the Committee by 162 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mónika Dunai as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament elected Mónika Dunai as Vice-President of the Committee with 162 votes in favour, unanimously. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Peter Hoppál as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Peter Hoppál, Vice-President of the Committee, unanimously by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mary Kállai as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Mary Kállai as Vice-President of the Committee by 161 votes in favour. I ask this House to elect Balázs Simon Robert as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected Mr Robert Balázs, unanimously, with 162 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Ágnes Kunhalmi as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has unanimously elected Ágnes Kunhalmi as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee by 163 votes in favour. [[16.00]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect István Szabadi as Vice-President of the Cultural Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected István Szabadi as Vice-President of the Committee by 161 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zsolt Németh as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Zsolt Németh, unanimously, by 161 votes in favour, to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mihály Balla as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Mihály Balla as Vice-President of the Committee by 161 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Mr. Barna Zsigmond as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, with 161 votes in favour, unanimously as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I ask the House to elect Hajnalka Juhász as vice president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Hajnalka Juhász, acting unanimously, with 161 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Brenner Koloman as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Brenner Koloman Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by 157 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable National Assembly to elect János Harghitai as the president of the Committee on immunity. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected János Harghitai, with 161 votes in favour, unanimously, to the Chairman of the immunity committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Olga Kálmán as Vice-President of the Committee on immunity. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Mr Olga Kálmán, acting unanimously, with 158 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee on immunity. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Sándor Font as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Mr Font as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture by 160 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect György Czerván as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected György Czerván as Vice-President of the Committee by 162 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Balázs Győrffy as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Balázs Győrffy as Vice-President of the Committee by 160 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zoltán Varga as Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Zoltán Varga as Vice-President of the Committee by 157 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zoltán Sas as chairman of the National Security Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Zoltán Sas, unanimously, by 163 votes in favour, to the chairman of the National Security Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect János Halász as Vice-President of the National Security Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected János Halász, acting unanimously, with 161 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Károly Panczél as chairman of the Committee on National Inclusion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Károly Panczél, unanimously, by 160 votes in favour, to the chairman of the Committee on National Inclusion. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zoltán Bóna as Vice-President of the Committee on National Inclusion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Zoltán Bóna as Vice-President of the Committee by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Szászfalvi as Vice-President of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 163 votes in favour, the House unanimously elected László Szászfalvi Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zsolt Molnár as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Zsolt Molnár, acting unanimously, with 163 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee on National Inclusion. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect József Kovács as Vice-President of the People's Welfare Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected József Kovács, acting unanimously, with 160 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the People's Welfare Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Sándor Kovács as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Sándor Kovács as Vice-President of the Committee by 161 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Gabriella Selmeczi as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Gabriella Selmeczi as Vice-President of the Welfare Committee with 159 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Nacsa Lorrinc as Vice President of the People's Welfare Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Ms Lorrinc Nacsa as Vice-President of the Committee by 161 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Zoltán Komáromi as Vice-President of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected Zoltán Komáromi as Vice-President of the Committee with 158 votes in favour, not in favour, with one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect István Apáti as Chairman of the Committee on Enterprise Development. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected István Apáti, with 159 votes in favour, not in favour, with one abstention, to the Chairman of the Committee on Enterprise Development. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Gábor Bányai as Vice-President of the Committee on Enterprise Development. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has elected Gábor Bányai, unanimously, with 162 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee on Enterprise Development. [[16.10]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Kristóf Szatmáry as Vice-President of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Kristóf Szatmáry as Vice-President of the Committee by 161 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Kordás as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected László Kordás to the Vice-President of the Committee on Enterprise Development with 160 unanimous votes in favour. It is now up to the President of the Legislative Committee to choose. I would like to remind you that the Parliament has elected Csaba Hende as Vice-President responsible for the legislative process, and that Mr. Vice-President has become the candidate for President of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Csaba Hende as Chairman of the Legislative Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that Csaba Hende of the House has been elected by 161 unanimous votes in favour of the Chairman of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect István Bajkai as Vice-President of the Legislative Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] István Bajkai was elected unanimously to the Vice-President of the Committee by 163 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Tamás Herczeg as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House unanimously elected Tamás Herczeg Vice-President of the Committee by 162 votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Salacz as Vice-President of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected László Salacz, Vice-President of the Committee, with 162 unanimous votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Vécsey as Vice-President of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House elected László Vécsey, Vice-President of the Committee, with 163 unanimous votes in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect István Hiller as Vice President of the Legislative Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected István Hiller, with 163 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Imre Komjathi as vice-president of the committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has elected Imre Komjáthi, unanimously, by 160 votes in favour, as Vice-President of the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Country to elect Imre Ritter as Chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the National Assembly elected Imre Ritter, unanimously, by 162 votes in favour, to the chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Dear Parliament, I wish all elected Commission officials and members effective work and good luck on behalf of all of us. Dear House, I declare that Dr. András Téglási, President of the National Election Committee, has informed me that the National Election Committee is a member of the 156/2022 and 157/2022. LXXXI of 2021 on the application of assets to the Foundation for the University of Fudan Hungary. Law? Do you agree that the maximum duration of the unemployment allowance should be 270 days? The number of valid signatures collected in support of the issues proposed for a national referendum exceeds 200 000. Transcriptions of the President of the National Election Committee are available on the website. In view of this, the resolution house rule is 88. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I appoint the Judicial Committee to draw up and submit a proposal for a decision on ordering a national referendum on the above issue. Dear Parliament, our dear Guests! I would like to inform you that the next meeting of Parliament will take place as recommended by the House Committee. The inaugural session is now closed. I'm gonna ask you to stand up and sing the Word. [[The people in the room stand up and sing the Word.]]
