u2017-11-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 18th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Szávay, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, after which, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m., and then from approximately 13:20 a.m. to 14:20 a.m., the hour of immediate questions and answers will take place. After that, we will continue our work with a political debate starting at about 14.20 minutes, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, The group leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Péter Harrach, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-11-06-1	Mr President, Dear House, Of course, I do not want to talk about Spengler's thoughts, not even about other similar authors - I might mention Huntington's name - who have written about the peculiarities of cultures, but rather about the situation in Europe today. Let me begin with a shocking phenomenon that we all know. A few days ago, in a small French town, a court decision was taken to remove II. John Paul's statue, and finally they were content to remove the cross. We could say that this is a particular phenomenon of the French secularised world, but I think that there have been several similar events in Europe, and this deserves to be mentioned. I dare say that cutting off roots, the identity crisis, is one of the reasons for the migration crisis; there is another, of course, but let us leave it now. If we are talking about identity, then Europe's loss of identity or crisis is causing its weakness, and weakness is a direct defeat against the strong. If I know who I am, it gives me confidence; if I know where I belong in the world, it settles my relationship with other people; if I know what my purpose in life is, it will ensure effective action; and if I know who I belong to, it will create a community. This is true of man and not only of the individual, but also of the community, the nations. Weakness of identity in Western Europe causes uncertainty and weakening, and the weak are replaced by the strong. But not only from this point of view, the identity crisis is the root of the migration crisis, but it also forces European leaders and deceived masses to take a next step, and this is a search for a new identity, and of course in this work, the theory of open society plays a major role in its practical implementation, including George Soros. The essence of this is a multicultural society, which is a very nice thought, but a wrong idea. The practice has shown that cultures do not live side by side, but fight against each other, and unfortunately in this fight Western culture seems to be losing. Here, of course, I could mention the difference between the individual and the mass - this already applies to migration. Today I had to open a conference, where it was a very interesting topic, the organizers gave the title that they chose the performers from among the followers of the Jewish, Christian, and Muslim religions. I was able to say, as the organizers obviously thought, that in the present situation, even in the situation of Hungary, we can say that, since we are an inclusive nation, we have some actors who come from wherever they come from, but they keep our laws and our standards, something like the Hungarian refugees of 56 who, scattered around Europe and even around the world, have kept the laws of the host country, well, this is the difference between the crowd that wants to conquer and the individual. In conclusion, let us have an optimistic thought, as our optimism obliges us to do so. Although Europe is in a rather bad situation, it seems that hope is the countries of Central Europe, because we are not yet lost. Much of the Western countries - and with which I started the example, for example, France - no longer have much hope of preserving their original culture. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-2	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2017-11-06-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, When I read the title of his speech, "The Twilight of the West," I remembered that the cover of Time magazine wasn't about anything else. This week, exactly, which also says, [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Did we illustrate, illustrate?]] that China wins the battle - it's economic and not identity - that it's in the economic sense of Western civilization. So there are similar thoughts in the hands of the pen-catchers to what Mr. Group Leader has said. Based on common sense, it is difficult to accept that II. The statue of John Paul or the statue of John Paul II. John Paul erected a cross over his statue whom and why he might disturb me. If there is a church leader who has truly been accepted everywhere in the world and who has delivered the good news, the good news everywhere, and who has also taken a stand for peace, the second. It was John Paul. Those who attack his statue or the cross above his statue obviously attack the roots of European identity, Christianity, because what we have in common with European nations, which is the foundation of our Europeanness, is indeed the same as the Christian roots here in European civilisation. So based on common sense, I don't think anyone can understand why I'm being attacked by a II. John Paul's statue. At the same time, Hungary is ready to accept both the statue or the cross above in case the legal struggles there fail to succeed and it fails to protect this statue in the public area, but not only Hungary, but Poland has already announced that it would accept this statue, which, I believe, will also become a symbol of the struggle for European identity. [[11.10]] The lack of identity cannot be an identity in Europe or elsewhere. If there is an identity vacuum somewhere, then, as the Member, Mr Group Leader, said, another civilization will infiltrate there and take its place; there is no region left in history in the long term without such identity, without an independent view of the world, but then another civilization, another culture, was pushed in and became dominant. We know the eternal saying that Europe will or will not become a Christian. I believe that this is even more true at a time of mass immigration, because either Europe rediscovers, reaffirms and re-evaluates its Christian roots, makes it valuable again, or if it loses it, European civilisation in today's sense will cease to exist, as it has already ceased in some suburban parts of the cities of Western Europe. It's a kind of invasion, a silent demographic warfare, that's what's going on in Europe, but the stakes are very high. Although we wrote the part in the beginning of the Fundamental Law and in the preamble, in the National Creed, that Hungary was created a thousand years ago as part of Christian Europe, but this Christian Europe seems to be shaking fundamentally, and the result of this is the wave of immigration and the enormous social tension that has affected all European elections in recent weeks, months, and obviously, in the coming months and years, all European elections will focus on immigration. However, with regard to immigration, it is important to say that Hungary wants to help those people who are deprived, who live in difficult circumstances, just as we Hungarians would like to manage in our own homeland, as we would like Transylvanian Hungarians to manage in Szeklerland, Partium, Transylvania, as well as in Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon and their own homeland. For this reason Hungary has launched new programmes in the last six months [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] To help persecuted Christians and to help other people, not only to help Christians, but also to bring tangible results. While a procedure was launched from Brussels, a quota lawsuit against Hungary was imposed on 1,200 people, while Hungary was able to provide housing for nearly a thousand families in the Middle East. The quota does not work, the Hungarian local help Hungary Helps program works. While the quota trial is about 1,200 people, Hungary has been able to help multiple of them, since these thousands of families [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] It means thousands of people whose housing, the roof above their head, came from the donation of Hungarian people, and thanks to the Hungarian people that they have been able to provide housing for nearly thousands of families in Lebanon and Iraq in the last six months, and they can restart their lives there. I would like to add that I spoke to any church leader, I met in the Middle East, no one asked for quotas, no one asked for resettlement programmes; these were invented in Brussels, without asking the people that this was about. But Hungary also seeks to help locally with a scholarship, uploading St. Joseph's Hospital's medical supplies and building a school in Erbil to prevent the reasons for this worldwide [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] but the whole of Europe is slowly on its knees, at least the immigration crisis that has brought Brussels to its knees. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, leader of the LMP Group, has also applied for a pre-meeting address:. Each family counts! It's an address. You have the floor, ma'am.
u2017-11-06-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Well, let's get back to the ground a little bit, because there are some Hungarian families we need to talk about here, but before we go into discussing the difficult situation of Hungarian families, let me say that I sincerely believe that you, my honourable fellow Members, take the support of families seriously. There is one problem: you understand this very narrowly. For example, the Ripper family is doing great. The Garanchi family can't complain either. The billionaire ministers are here, they're doing very well, Andy Vajna is thanking you, he's fine. The thing is that the helicopter is buzzing, the party is going to Ibiza, but you seem to thank and are fine, but the situation is not going so well for millions of Hungarian families. The people I'm talking about, they don't want sums that can be measured in billion-dollar tenders, they just want some empathy and some reasonable thinking on the part of politicians. They don't want much, just to keep their daily lives safe, financially safe; they don't need money for another castle or yacht rental, they need money for things like getting into daycare, they need money to go to Lake Balaton for two weeks, or they need a moldless home, but they also need money to have a second or even a third child. And who I am talking about here and now are the circle of single-parent families of every fifth Hungarian family - they simply cannot fit into the worldview of Fidesz-KDNP, and therefore these families have been simply forgotten in recent years. Let me point out that the government's attitude towards family affairs is more symbolic than ever of the family cabinet set up in August, with no permanent female members. Please, this is a men's club, and the task of this body of men is to formulate proposals for family and population policy for the current Prime Minister. So who does Viktor Orbán expect to find out about family and population issues? Zsolt Semjén, János Lázár, Mihály Varga, Zoltán Balog, László Trócsányi and Rogan, please don't leave me here. This supply, these people are expected to be deciphered. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, and here is Minister, that this is about the level of Saudi Arabia. There we managed to hold a conference called Women in Society, but no women were invited to this conference. This is exactly where you are, and you have taken Hungary to the level of Saudi Arabia. They did not invite anyone there in Saudi Arabia; it is fortunate that I do not need to be invited to the Hungarian Parliament, because I am here on my own, and then they can hear what Hungarian families need from me and the LMP. On the one hand, good wages are needed. Currently, mother and father work all day in Hungarian families, but most Hungarian families have no savings, and from now on, if the washing machine fails, there is a good chance that the family will also be ruined. You brought it in, Fidesz brought Hungary into this downward wage competition, you introduced a single-key tax system, with which the majority of Hungarian families are suffering quite simply. After a change of government, the average wagers, the minimum wage earners, and even those who earn twice the average wage, can receive tens of thousands of HUF net in our tax system. Unlike you, we do not want to give new discounts to those few relatively wealthy people, but we want to help a wide range of Hungarian families. But there is a need for other things, such as nursery seats. After seven years of Fidesz, we are still at the point of fighting to get someone into the nursery; if they succeed, then there is the cradle prize, the fruit brought, the diaper brought, the handkerchief brought, the various burdens that families have to bear, because you couldn't help. Otherwise, we could get away with fewer cradle seats if, for example, I helped Hungarian mothers to work from home, but they couldn't make anything permanent in this case, and the LMP proposals were always voted off; we did it on the government. It will be a longer topic, but we will also talk about it a lot, for example, that we need children left for children. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I don't see much of a lady, so gentlemen, after a six-year-old child goes to school, what's waiting for her? Six-pound school bag, for example, and six hours a day, and his school bag has books that show that his family isn't even a family, because Mom and Dad aren't married, so he goes home crying and asks his parents what's going on here. Live story, it happened, it was a living example. And let me highlight the need to support single - parent families - we are talking about one in five Hungarian families. 95 percent of women remain alone with the child, this is not a chosen life situation, so it happens, so it stays. In recent years, you have virtually completely resisted helping these families. We have learned what is important to you, but we do not see how you want to help these families. We have put forward a number of substantive proposals in recent years on how to ease their burden, so I am calling on the leader of every parliamentary faction or power centre to come to an agreement. I would like to know what you think: after a change of government, what can you promise single - parent families? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Gentlemen, I hope to see you at the meeting. [[11.20]]
u2017-11-06-6	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2017-11-06-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, If the May Other is so important to Politics, why didn't women vote for 40 in Parliament? You said that Hungarian women, Hungarian women, Hungarian mothers are in a difficult situation. What we agree with is that we need to help a lot of people. Fortunately, today there are fewer than eight years ago, but there are still many. But when there was an opportunity in Parliament to help them - you said that security was needed for certain retirement years - why didn't you vote for it? This was your chance, a parliamentary button push, that's all you had to do. You can say big words here, only when you have to make a bold decision, and you have to say that although the government has tabled this proposal, it is good for 200 thousand women - because more than 200,000 women have used it - and you have not supported it here in Parliament. How do you say here that every proposal is intended to favour mothers, single mothers, women, when they could not support such an extremely serious proposal involving 200,000 Hungarians, just because they had been tabled by the governing party? They probably didn't have the courage, the Possibly Other Politics didn't have the courage to break up with previous political practice and to support a pro-government proposal from the opposition. I think there was an opportunity here. And there were plenty of other options for the family-type tax system, the free children's meals, the free textbook. You are only attacking the textbook system, while the burden of ten thousand HUF off the shoulders of the families is that from 1st to 9th you no longer have to pay for the textbooks. And you've been attacking this system for the last five years. You preferred the system where market service providers made greater profits and carried them out of the country, with 6 thousand, 10 thousand, 15 thousand forints on these families every early September at the start of school. Why were those proposals not supported, honourable Member? Why can they only attack this textbook system here in Parliament? After all, this summer the government was able to help single - parent families by setting up an independent centre and network, to which we were able to spend half a billion forints. Specially for single-parent families, a holiday program has been announced under the Erzsébet programme, which you normally only attack the Elizabeth program with all the tools, but you forget to say that these... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: How much did you steal? Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How many of you have become rich? Noise on the opposition side. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Wind Bernadett:]]
u2017-11-06-8	Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-9	You're in a lot of pain, because those of you who took the food ticket business earlier, I see you're too close to those French companies and attacking this system. We turned this back into a holiday for Hungarian families, and we were able to take 500,000 people on holiday. We've taken 500 thousand people from what you're attacking, which was previously picked up by three French companies and taken out of the country. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How many billions have you stolen?]] But you do not like what is happening in Hungary for the benefit of the Hungarian people, and you always prefer it when a foreign company is able to cash in some big profits, which is why the Erzsébet programme is also being attacked. [[Constant, loud noises, interruptions from the opposition side.]] Although it specifically provided for single - parent families with this kind of new vacation opportunity, acknowledging that parenting in single - parent families is more difficult to manage the custody of the child throughout the summer. We put out this application to help them during summer vacation, not just from September with free textbooks. Or there is the possibility of a nursery entrance, where single - parent families also have the advantage of taking care of their children alone. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, it was an LMP suggestion.]] In the line in which they assign who gets into the nursery, they have an advantage, precisely because the state believes that not only during the summer but also during the year, it provides greater assistance to single - parent families. That is why we have also made this amendment, and that is why they have the advantage here too. And I might add, Madam Member, the introduction of family-type taxation, the possibility of CSOK, the possibility of extending family-type taxation to contributions, which today leaves more than 20 thousand forints of the average Hungarian family than they had before, as that is the tax and contribution allowance they can enforce. If the LMP tax system came in and you raised the 15% tax rate to the highest rate, up to 40 percent, thereby disrupting the tax system, the Hungarian people would suffer worse, and the Hungarian families would suffer worse. The fact that LMP is constantly demanding a progressive tax system and here in Parliament it is attacking the system created by the Fidesz-KDNP government, which is a family-type proportional tax system, which could result in a very serious disadvantage for Hungarian families. I believe that those who want to support Hungarian families should continue to support Fidesz-KDNP, because there is no other country in Europe, nor can you say an OECD country, honourable Member, which would spend more on families than the Hungarian government, over 4.5 percent of GDP. This government provides the highest rate of family policy support within the European Union, and you can't disprove it with facts and data, just by shouting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-10	Thank you very much, and thank you for your patience, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a pre-meeting speech: You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Listening to the speeches before today's agenda, the title is even more up-to-date, as you now want to protect Europe. We hope that Europe will not end up like what you have already defended, as, say, private pension funds, which have been protected by vaporizing in an instant. Of the victims of the broker scandals, who were protected by the fact that 32,000 victims, who were left behind by Quaestor only after a 220 billion-dollar pilot game, are still looking for their money and their truth to this day; if they don't walk like the foreign exchange credentials, who you have saved so that 900 thousand executions will start in the coming period, and you don't seem to want to do anything about these matters. But let's see what they've done, how they've saved these people. First, they brought in the final repayment at a fixed rate. This was after the speech of two or three of their representatives, Matolcsy, Péter Szijjártó or Lajos Kósa, caused about as much problems in the Hungarian financial market as before the financial crisis and the global economic crisis. The Hungarian people's debt was increased by 20 percent. Then they brought in the final repayment at a fixed rate. It was only good for people who didn't need it, pretty much. So whoever had money at this rate could safely pay off, but anyone who didn't have the money couldn't do it, he stayed trapped. And then they had another good idea, and they said to have a price barrier. The price barrier meant that at that daily rate, or what was written in that law, people could pay back for years. We said it in vain, and you didn't call the debtors' attention to the fact that two or three years from now, you're gonna have this huge debt on your hands, and now you're stuck with it. They've got this huge debt on their hands, and you're not doing anything right now. By the way, the exchange rate is not guarded, and the euro's exchange rate looks pretty much the same as the Swiss franc's EKG for a very sick person. But what else have you done? These loans have been forinted. These loans were forinted in such a way that the foreign exchange lenders lost a lot, and the Magyar Nemzeti Bank won. Not a little, but a lot of it. We know from György Matolcsy, in his report he told us and wrote that HUF 136 billion of foreign exchange gains were generated at the Hungarian National Bank. You know, it's something that, along with another 130 billion, almost lost its public money character, but then they couldn't even drive it through themselves or through the Constitutional Court. However, we managed to push these into the Matolcsy foundations, which György Matolcsy considers the most progressive thing to raise Hungarians into financial awareness. What kind of financial awareness is raised by the foundations that are able to manage the money that belongs to the foreign exchange lenders, because the exchange rate difference that they have swallowed in one day is used for this today, that is 136 billion forints. Quaestor's trial is going on, it's still going on today. We hope that they will find out that they made a mistake, that they were wrong, because as financial supervision, they didn't do their job properly. But you protected the Quaestors with 20,000 still running for their money - but not the one who might have done all this. If the news is true, Csaba Tarsoly will attend a conference today. He's under house arrest. Is that okay? [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Success conference.]] Should Csaba Tarsoly attend a success conference, and the houses of foreign exchange lenders will be auctioned off? About 900,000 houses? [[11.30]] We are asking you to reconsider and support the opposition's proposals. Let there be a rule that if the bank accepted the property as collateral at the time of admission, that should be enough now. It shouldn't be that someone's been canceled for a decade, and now they're going to auction his house, and then he still owes me tens of millions. It can't be. Enough for the bank, settle for the real estate you've settled for before. On the basis of the Romanian example, it is accepted that banks should be accounted for at the rate of admission and at the rate of interest at the time of admission, and that foreign exchange taxpayers should owe on the basis of it. That would be a huge help to them. They are already doing so in Romania, and they have not been attacked by the European Union. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Let's wait and see.]] Although you are struggling with the European Union quite a lot, the housing of 900 thousand people would be really worth a fight with the European Union, rather than using your time to protect Europe from the bogeyman again. Thank you very much for your attention and patience, Mr President.
u2017-11-06-12	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-11-06-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, It is relatively surprising that the MSZP is acting as if it wants to represent the issue of foreign exchange lenders. And I'm surprised because if there's a whole foreign currency credit crisis, it's your party. You're acting like the man who set the house on fire and then giving advice to the firefighters - that's the thing. Let us begin by saying that, after the first civilian government, you have abolished a well-functioning home creation programme and then freed foreign currency lending to Hungary. The result is well known: the amount of retail foreign exchange loans has increased by more than 100 times. Due to the catastrophic governance of the left, the exchange rates have increased, and so have the repayments. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are in a hopeless situation. After 2010, the civilian government helped them in various ways, for example by banning mortgage-based foreign exchange loans and limiting interest rate increases. I would like to remind you that the MSZP did not vote for this. For example, the introduction of the exchange barrier: I would like to inform you or remind you that the MSZP did not vote for this, or the Jobbik fraction, by the way. Final repayment was also a significant help. Neither the MSZP nor the LMP voted for this. In 2014, the government also decided to account for the banks, a thousand billion in the size that came back to the authentic ones from the banks. By the way, your two-facedness is well characterised by the fact that no opposition group supported the Forinting Act. So, the thing is, the opposition is referring to foreign exchange credentials who are in the middle of the responsibility for triggering the foreign exchange credential crisis and who did not support measures to assist foreign exchange credentials. That's how much you can count on the opposition and the left - not at all. By the way, this morning, you seem to be dealing with foreign exchange credentials, but you don't want to take part in a debate on them this afternoon. [[Dr. László Kács: Because we'll be with them in reception hours, not with you.]] This is very typical of you. It's the same confusion that your Prime Minister's candidate has been presented in the last few days. There is a fight on the left for posts, and the head of the group of the MSZP said on a TV show that the name of Péter Balázs was mentioned as a candidate for Prime Minister, and there is no other name before the presidency. He also said that phone calls have been made in this case. After a few minutes, Péter Balázs appears on the same show and says that no one was looking for him. Do you understand? No one was looking for him - who you referred to as the Prime Minister's candidate. Well, such a party, honourable Member, such a party cannot be taken seriously, let alone by the foreign exchange credentialers, but by no Hungarian citizen. Well, how can you even help them under these circumstances? ! Well, in one case, it would be nice to intervene, since you've mentioned the victims. This is Csaba Czeglédy's case. As we know, one of the main members of the MSZP lost HUF 3 billion, and among the victims we find elderly and students. If they didn't help the foreign exchange lenders, at least they shouldn't be left on the side of the road damaged and betrayed. We think the break point in the future of the MSZP is how Csaba Czeglédy handles the case. Everyone will be informed that the secret gold nuggets stored in safes or the discovery of crimes and compensation are more important to the MSZP. It's up to you which way you choose. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Szávay, notary, from the Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why does the Hungarian Electricity Works refuse to account for half a billion forints of public money given to Fidesz undercover civilians? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Notary, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the last seven years, we have seen the complete breakdown of the Hungarian rule of law and the construction of a new party state, a Fidesz party state. They've invaded the independent institutions, the prosecutor's office, put their own people at the head of the Constitutional Court and the National Bank, the Hando Fairies are trying to pull the judges on a wire. They changed and rewritten the election law in their own interests, not deterring even the possibility of electoral fraud. Fidesz politicians occupied the sports clubs and the trade unions, but even the National Remembrance Committee could only include fidesz delegates. You have plowed the public media over the last few years, and you have completely uniformed it. The operation of this is now in the '50s. They have emptied, emptied, deprived Parliament of its powers, no substantive debate can take place here, no questions will be answered. They won't answer now, Mr. Secretary, I'll tell you in advance. He's not gonna answer my question now either, they're just gonna be in line, they're gonna be smokin', he's gonna talk about where Jobbik's posters come from, why we have an SAO audit; and besides, Jobbik's gonna be able to do everything for money and power. We know these words from outside, Mr. Secretary. It's an old Bolshevik way of accusing the enemy of our own sins. Let's not talk about that, Secretary of State, tell me about the COF's money, please, as the Secretary of State of the MVM. We believe there's been a crime here, and what happened raises suspicion of illegal campaign funding. CÖF received half a billion forints of public money from Hungarian Electricity, which still refuses to account for public money. When I started looking into this case in May this year, on 10 May, the CF issued a communication stating that they had not received aid from a public company from 2010 to 16. The next day, on May 11th, they were exposed, when Átlátsző found out about this HUF 508 million grant. I first turned to the Hungarian Electric Works and then to the Hungarian National Asset Manager exercising ownership rights with a request for data in the public interest, and asked them to provide me with all the documents of this support. That was denied in both places. That is when I turned to the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, and on 19 September, President Péterfalvi informed me in a legally well-founded, supported letter of why I was right when I said that the money managed by MVM was public money and that its use should be accounted for. It has been a month and a half since then, of course I have not been informed, even though the Data Protection Authority has obliged MVM to release these documents to me within 15 days. After this did not happen, I filed a complaint during the weekend about the misuse of public interest data, which could be punishable by imprisonment of up to two years. That's what I want you to talk to me about, Mr. Secretary. Answer me, please, who is responsible for this, why is the Hungarian Electric Works keeping secrets? What do you intend to do about it? And when will the public finally know what this HUF 508 million was spent on, beyond the fact that it is a recipe for complete food. We'd like to see the recipe collection that cost 508 million forints. By the way, at the government info, János Lázár acknowledged that it was public money, so such a position has already been made by the government. It's a tell, isn't it, that it's clear that the Csizmadias had just received this money, that on 7 December last year, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gábor Vona announced their campaign to wash together the poster campaign to embarrass Jobbik. Well, it came out afterwards, but even then, a lot of people were asking and guessing how COF could afford this poster campaign. Well, it turns out a few months ago he probably got 508 million forints from MVM. It is no coincidence that, when you were making a mood for civil society organisations, you were only willing to look at funding from abroad, and you did not accept Jobbik's proposal that organisations that influence politics in Hungary, such as the CÖF, also look at their financing from abroad. The reason they didn't accept it was because it would have included COFF. By the way, the majority of the leaders of the CÖF, with László Csizmadia in the lead, consist of people who served the Communists in exactly the same way as they are now serving the Fidesz before 1989. You need such civilians, who carry out government propaganda on whining public funds, while otherwise starve and bleed out civil society organisations that do really important work. In the meantime, only this year they want to spend HUF 75 billion on government propaganda, filling buddy advertising companies and national consultation related to the Soros plan. [[11.40]] I'll tell you a secret: do you know what the Jobbik national consultation will be about when it fails your regime? About the hundreds of billions of forints that you, Lőrinc Mészáros and your stooges stole, the hundreds of billions of forints that we took back from you, after we took back what we were going to spend it on. We will ask the Hungarian people about this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-16	Thank you, Congressman Savay, notary. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2017-11-06-17	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have to say, I'm not in an easy situation. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's for sure.]] Because I have to comment on the question of a politician of a sold-out party, and I have to state the government's position on it. A pair of sold souls now making claims of all kinds of slippings in front of the country, behind which there is no evidence, no truth [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's a fact!]] generally purports and insults the Hungarian rule of law, including the powers of the Hungarian Parliament and the authority of the Hungarian Parliament. [[István Szávay: That's what you do.]] I think, Congressman, that as a member of a party and as a representative of a party who has sold their souls, you should be more sensitive to other things. Maybe it's worth sweeping around your own party. If Jobbik is really sensitive to the issue of transparency, then they need to resolve that serious issue. [[György Szilágyi: What about CÖF?]] The party's been bought out. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] They definitely bought it because they get posters from Lajos Simicska at a price. As the party president himself said, Gábor Vona brought you down not so long ago, by receiving posters from Lajos Simicska's company with a discount below the market price. I quote Mr.Gábor Vona, party president: we had to go to Lajos Simicska on an exclusion basis, and, yes, he gave us posters at a market price. Earlier, however, one of your young spokespersons said the following, and I quote him: "The great oath here and now I'll take it that we didn't get any discount, we agreed on a market price with these small companies. Please respond to this. [[György Szilágyi: CÖF!]] And tell me what forbidden party funding you have received from Lajos Simicska! Of course, they also claimed earlier - by reference to business secrets - that they could not tell us how much the posters cost. This shows the duality of Jobbik, according to which politics is just business. [[György Szilágyi: We should answer the question!]] This is when they sell their souls and debauch a former national party into the political department of an oligarch financial enterprise. But we know that Jobbik can do anything for power and money. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Moving on to the accusations about Electricity Company: I have to say that the [[The president's ringing the bell.]] After 2010, the Hungarian government ended the unblessed state that MVM Zrt. be the paying place of the Socialist Government. This was eliminated in 2010. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-11-06-18	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, a moment. I call on the loud and shouting representatives of the Jobbik Group to participate in today's work, so listen up. He's talking now, and he's just starting to answer the question. We're listening, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-19	The company operates effectively, allowing it to cover its social responsibility activity from its own resources and to support a number of public benefit activities. Information on this issue is provided by MVM Zrt. the payments resulting from its business activities financed by its business assets, in which MVM Zrt. did not pay public money. He used his own resources. MVM Zrt. it must be assessed in the same way as other economic organisations, the data required is not for public purposes, but for MVM Zrt. they relate to the knowledge of decisions taken in the course of their business activities. Therefore, the publication of the requested information is CXII of 2014 on the implementation of transparency in public matters, such as the right to self-determination and freedom of information. does not serve the purpose of law. For the record, MVM Zrt. is a net budgetary contributor, who pays HUF 100-130 billion per year into the budget, and is therefore not comparable to public organisations that use budget money. I note that if this practice were to be given the opportunity to require data for economic organisations at the expense and risk of their business results, then the entire Hungarian national economy, Hungarian citizens, would suffer. Please accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr István Jakab, Vice-President, from the Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda:. The profession was joined together on behalf of the chamber serving the countryside. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-11-06-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor today on an important national matter, which is crucial for all of us, and this is the matter of the Chamber elections. The Chamber elections took place on 3 November, and we have to say: for the first time since the change of regime, the countryside and the profession have joined forces, and this has given people success. We have to say, we have to say that nearly 50,000 chamber members participated, and when this number is valued, it must also be taken into account that the vote can be cast in more than 11 thousand places in the national elections, and now there are 248 places to cast the vote. So we had to travel, we had to bear the costs, we had to take up time, and yet people went and voted. Dear Parliament, In the context of the Chamber elections, we do not have to reject the harsh statements of one of our fellow Members here today because of the following. The chamber members left, voted voluntarily, for their own good. The result was questioned by many, since it was also a rival. I must inform the respected doubters that 88.3% of the Magos list voted for nearly 50,000 people, and the MOS list is 11.7 percent. I think that these results are clear to everyone. And I think that right here, right now, the series of violent outbursts that you've been given permission to finish. Stop right there. However, speaking of which, I'm forced to bring one more aspect to you. We did not have two fellow Members carrying straw bales in front of a constituency. You know, straw is easy, Stroh, straw is easy! Why do I say that? Those politicians, LMP and MSZP, led by Zoltán Gőgös, assisted by R. Benedek Sallai, were found to be easy. I think they should think about it: we have not been insulted, politicians, the countryside, people have been insulted, those who have stood up for themselves, they have undertaken to do what they think. Why? Because, dear fellow Members, this election was also a value choice. The countryside has decided, and the country considers the values that have been represented by its Members to be important, because, dear fellow Members, the countryside has decided that the service is important to them. For them, service is important when it comes to land policy; for them, service is important when EU funds need to be reached. For them, service is important when it comes to standing up for unified programmes, such as the establishment of a hail reduction system. [[11.50]] For them, it is important what the development of irrigation will be from a strategic point of view in the coming period, or I could mention the protein programme. For people, farmers, their lives, their quality of life are important to the countryside. And the politician who can only bring strawballs there, I think he will get his fair judgment from the countryside, from the people in 2017. Dear Parliament, The country wanted one thing: to thrive, to live. The country has elected its representatives. Here I would like to thank the 17 organisations that joined forces with Magos, who today represents the entire Hungarian agricultural and food economy, covering the country. They made it clear that they wanted to serve and manage with the countryside, with the people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-22	Thank you, Vice President István Jakab. On behalf of the Government, Minister Sándor Fazekas wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-11-06-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I would like to congratulate Magos, his allies and Hungarian farmers on the results of the Chamber elections. This was a very important decision for the Hungarian countryside, and we can say that the victory of Hungarian farmers is the victory of Magos, the victory of Fidesz-KDNP and the recognition of that rural policy. [[Moore from Jobbik's benches.]] We've been representing here for years. I can also hear the noise of sympathy from Jobbik here. Dear Parliament, This was the most important interim vote between 2014 and 2018, as we heard the numbers, nearly 50,000 people left. We will compare it with the results of some previous votes. In any case, it is a great achievement that farmers and farmers, who have gone to the farthest points of the country, supported the list of Magos and their allies in all 19 counties, have won this cooperation in all counties, which has raised most of the problems in strategic cooperation with the government in the rural policy of the last few years, and we have developed and partly carried out solutions. So recognition to the government and thanks for it. This most important interim election or vote has also shown that neither Jobbik, the LMP, nor the MSZP have any rural policy, no agricultural policy. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There is no country, you!]] They can't do anything but Parliament's noise. The Jobbik can bells, the LMP deals with straw bales and even coal bases, and the MSZP's agricultural policy has been ringing bells in the last few weeks. That is why I am proud of this result, because, for example, Karcagon, in the city where I live, has achieved more than 90 percent, and a number of these counties and settlements, which are decisive for the Hungarian countryside, show that despite all the mobilization and uprising of MSZP, farmers knew that the future was in their hands, they knew what the stakes were, which is why they decided, as we have heard. Dear Parliament, If you compare the previous statements, there are a few lines from Zoltán Magyar, which I brought here, which was published in the Parliament a few weeks ago. He says that Magosz is also unable to perform the minimum task of appearing in the press, either here, in Parliament, or at any professional forum, as the voice of the Hungarian economic society, with the power of the NAK - such things said Zoltán Magyar. Dear Jobbik MEPs, you are weightless in the Hungarian economy, Zoltán Magyar is the one who cannot show any interest. It's really time for a little self-esteem to slow down the noise, and instead some kind of loyal attitude towards farmers in rural society. But the same can be said of the abnormally anti-host LMP, where Róbert Benedek Sallai has taken every opportunity in the last few weeks and months to insult farmers, insult their interests, insult those who work for the Hungarian farming community. But the MSZP is also worth the money, as they say. There was a chamber election in 2008; since we look at the participation rates and figures: at the 2008 Chamber of Agriculture election, which was conducted by the now completely weightless and disintegrating MSZP, the participation rate was 0.9 percent. There was a county where 30 people voted 40 delegates. So this is the MSZP performance. With a weightless agricultural chamber, it is no wonder that the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian agriculture, is in the position it is in. Compared to this, they have now tried to add some weight to their otherwise small activities with straw bales and other demonstrations. You can see in recent years the increase in the performance of Hungarian agriculture, which is one and a half percent, and the creation of 50 thousand new jobs, the fact that 30 thousand farmers were able to purchase land constitutionally, legally, is all the result of an active cooperation and cooperation between the Hungarian countryside, the Magos, the Magos, and the government of national affairs. We are working to achieve even more results in the Hungarian countryside, and we can really manage. One important thing to do is to make a living. We can now say that agriculture can work in the remotest settlements and villages, and there is even a shortage of workers. Who would have thought that a few years ago? That is why we have worked, and our goal is to get the Hungarian countryside back on its feet and put Hungarian agriculture on track for development. To do this, we need a strong chamber, which requires the economic community to work together, and that cooperation with the Fidesz-KDNP regime, the government of national affairs, will continue to be ongoing in the future. Congratulations to the farmers, congratulations to the Magos! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-24	Thank you, Minister Sándor Fazekas. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Mr Gergely Farkas, from the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda today. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:56 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the Speaker of Parliament is the House Rules of Decision 121. Paragraph 4 (a) - Article 124 Under the authority of Zoltán Készép, independent Member K/17818, as extended by paragraph 1 of § 1. He refused to take a written question because the motion was not part of the mandate of the Government. Now, Honourable Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, "Why do you allow the only adult hospice house in the country to be closed?" Is there really no HUF 50 million in the budget to support the Foundation to support dying patients and their families? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2017-11-06-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Last year, in July 2016, news was that the Dóri Hospice House is suffering from serious financial problems, where we are talking about sick children with cancer. Five million forints were waiting for support from the Ministry, and their problem was solved only in September. Barely a year has passed, we're back in the same shoes, we're just talking about an adult hospice house, where, as it turns out, they're facing even more serious financial problems, with 50 million forints missing from their budget. For three days, the news was that the hospice house had arrived, that they had to close, and then Minister Zoltán Balog spoke with great kindness and instructed the Health Secretary to support the hospice house and to receive the HUF 50 million as soon as possible. He had an interesting sentence for Minister Balog because he drew the hospice house's attention to responsible farming. Secretary of State, I'd like to send a message to Minister. A little more respect; a little more modest and a little more humble! I think that the Balog Zoltán who considers himself a friend of Flórian Farkas should act a little more humblely; the Flórian Farkas who lost more than a billion forints from the Hungarian budget. In the meantime, we see that dying patients should be looking for 50 million forints, and we can get a grant while even the minister kicks them. 'Cause don't give it to me without saying anything, you're gonna have to tell me you're looking for more responsible management from the foundation. Mr. Secretary, how many times does this have to happen? How many times do we have to read on the news that a few ten million forints are missing from the operation of a very important organization? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr. Secretary, don't turn around. [[The president's ringing again.]] Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come I'm looking forward to your reply. [[12.00]]
u2017-11-06-26	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Secretary of State, I remind Congresswoman that the text in question must be read in the future... [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: No! Not on questions.]] That's right. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I have to...]] But there weren't any more elements in the content that I don't want to highlight right now. Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer.
u2017-11-06-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I would leave out the part of my speech about what is right and what is wrong to make political capital out of. Each party decides for itself what subjects it wants to politicalize with and what it doesn't. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh! Intruder from Jobbik's benches:]] Allow me to talk substantially about state aid in this area and the situation of this institution. Today there are 21 institutions providing hospice services in Hungary. This means that there are 21 hospice homes, hospice classes, or an independent institution, or a bed for a hospital. A total of 250 beds now have hospice care in Hungary; 65 hospice home care services are available; 87 sites have this kind of care throughout the country. The Hungarian state provides for all patients in need of palliative care, whether it is home care, home care services, or inpatient care, i.e. hospital hospice palliative ward. Last year, 5922 patients were taken care of by the state through the Health Insurance Fund Manager, which meant 174 thousand days of care in the hospice home care. If you look at the numbers of the last year, that's also 2,864 supply cases. The Hungarian State, of course, also provides the Hungarian Hospice Foundation with the support that the other providers of the National Health Insurance Fund will receive from NEAK, as there are several providers, not only one. Thank you for your work, and as a cover, you will receive the state aid that everyone else will receive. This is about 60 million forints a year. In addition to this state aid, in recent years the State has provided an additional HUF 25 million in aid [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] on these 10 beds, and on further request, the State Secretary for Health will take steps to make up for the missing amount. I'd like to reassure everyone in this [[The president's ringing again.]] Everyone in the house and in the other houses is safe, and you will receive the same care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: "Does the Government liquidate the most dangerous intersection of Highway 4 with the Armed Forces? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, One of the most dangerous intersections of Highway 4 is the Gun-Sparal Village and the Armor-Armony exit. Unfortunately, at the crossroads in the title, despite the warnings posted, an accident with serious financial damage occurs almost daily. The intersection may be dominated by the worst statistics in the county, but national statistics can boast of it, which makes the everyday life of the people of the city of Gun, safety and otherwise the lives of thousands of travelers using route 4. The crossing at the intersection is not at all guaranteed for pedestrians, while the public transport stops through the settlement are all here, which they are forced to approach regularly, either irregularly or dangerously, or to attend school. For the elimination and safe construction of the wealth and life-threatening crossroads, the population had already organized a collection four years ago, where in moments thousands of signatures were gathered requesting and requesting assistance, but this did not affect the decision-makers, and the fate of the intersection and route 4 did not change. According to the news, the situation would now be resolved by the municipality, but they did not come to an agreement with the maintainer of the road. Unfortunately, residents also know that the renovation of Highway 4 will not affect this section of Highway 4 in the long term, according to the present government's view - and this also applies to the intersection - so that in the long term there is no renewal of the Gunnek route, or even a four-track route. That is why I have proposed that the pedestrian underpass and overpass be built to make it safer, precisely to provide security for the residents, because the residents hope that the only option is for the government to change its mind. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State why the government is preventing one of the most dangerous crossings of Route 4 at Guns-Sapal Village. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When to make the intersection safe, and when to continue Highway 4 [[The president's ringing again.]] Construction of the road between weapons and Karcag? Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-06-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradszki.
u2017-11-06-31	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I believe and I see that your question can be motivated by two things. One is the need for a logistical background for medical exports [[Lajos Rig: Brilliant!]] So in order to be able to export doctors, Hungary needs the right routes to get them to Western Europe. The other is that you, as a hopeless party, represent the interests of your owner. The fact is that the billionaire who bought Jobbik and tangled on a wire wants to get orders through the faction for his road-building business, which is not in little trouble. The picture is therefore clear: if Jobbikon were to depend, the development of the road would also be in the hands of a bought-in party, which would focus solely on filling the owners' pockets instead of the interests of the Hungarian people. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] But we've been getting used to this lately, as they've been trying to make certain sectors of domestic transport look bad and deny the results of recent years. The reconstruction of the arms and hemp sections of Highway 4 was carried out under the complex road renovation programme from domestic budgetary sources. I would like to inform you that in the node in question, Magyar Közút Zrt. It introduced a speed limit of 70 km/h in 2014 and put out signposts. As a result of the measures, there was no personal injury at the intersection in 2015 and 2016. In order to maintain continuous safety, the road operator shall regularly consult the competent authorities and the municipality and, if necessary, take additional precautions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the government fail two thirds of the family? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2017-11-06-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. A report from the Good State was published recently, including a comprehensive research into how the public sees the government's performance, the state of the country. The report shows a devastating picture of the situation of families. More than 67 percent of families with children surveyed do not have enough reserves for more than one month. 62 percent of them say that today there is no fair way to raise three children from two lawsuits. According to a overwhelming majority, it is a huge risk if a parent falls out of the labour market for any reason or if a parent is left alone with children because it is extremely difficult to raise a child in an action. The fewer children in a family, the worse it is to consider state support for childbearing. One child's educators are the most dissatisfied with government policy. Nearly 60 percent of people are dissatisfied with the size of family allowances; 61 percent think that the tax system is unfair and that there are more people who believe that taxes should be reduced. This shows that the perception of the government's family policy and tax system is not as favourable as you constantly claim. Today, the majority of families still face financial problems in raising children, and only high earners are satisfied with the government's family policy. In the seventh year of the government of Fidesz, financial security is an unattainable state for the majority of Hungarian families. Instead of the strong middle class promised by Fidesz, we see the masses, the poor middle class and the insufferable families, Mr. Secretary of State. Why do they let two thirds of the families down? Please answer whether you have any intention of reviewing the unfair family support system and the tax system, with which the majority of Hungarians are clearly dissatisfied? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Dr. István Józsa: You're right!]]
u2017-11-06-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[12.10]]
u2017-11-06-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You know, Hungarian families always look suspiciously at politicians who talk about tax changes so that 92% of families can benefit from family benefits, i.e. family-type taxation and family-type contributions [[Dr. István Józsa: 67 percent poor!]] two parents with average income, parents with average earnings, three children who do not pay taxes or contributions, and then the LMP politician stands up and says that he wants a change in the support of families. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your current party is programmed to increase personal income tax, increase taxes. [[Márta Demeter: Don't lie, Mr. Secretary.]] This is an exceptional disadvantage for families. And your former party took away a month's money, reduced the support of families, took the family tax relief after the second-third child, so in practice it did what the families feared, whether it was taking away the Socpol or taking away the family type of benefits. Today there is a family-friendly tax system in Hungary. Our task is to make Hungary more family-friendly. We do have a role to play in this, but the tax system can give priority to support families on the one hand, and also reduce the risk of poverty among family members on the other hand on the basis of Eurostat and other data, as one child's commitment or two or three children's commitment was a risk of poverty. Today, this is much less true, and even somewhat is beginning to disappear. That is why it is important for us to maintain this tax system. Apparently, it's the LMP that's attacking him. LMP wants to raise personal income tax, LMP wants to raise taxes on families. [[Márta Demeter: Don't lie, Mr. Secretary.]] We don't know exactly what you'd use these funds for. But you could not now say another country within the euro zone, within the European Union or within the OECD countries where families would be supported by more than 4.5 percent of GDP. Adding benefits and subsidies to families is 4.5 percent of the total national product. I do not believe that you or any of your fellow parties will be able to offer a higher level of support in any country's budget. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes, you can.]] Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Will the family-friendly turn of the population turn into a turnaround? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2017-11-06-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The government's aim is to create a family-friendly environment in Hungary that supports the children's commitment to Hungarian families. In 2010, the government promised to create a million new jobs in the country in ten years. The Jászság also played a significant role in this. Unemployment was typical at the beginning of the decade, but it is now possible to talk about a shortage of workers. In the cities of Jászberény and Jászfényzaru, the biggest investors made the most serious improvements. In parallel with the strengthening of the economy and supporting investment in job creation, the system of family support has been constantly evolving. After the socialist-liberal coalitions dismantled the support systems of the time, the civilian government rebuilt them. Let me just mention the most important things: the system of family tax incentives has been built, the system of insurance has been extended, and the extra package of geed has also been put in place. The family home creation discount programme will help families to an unprecedented extent; for example, the family loan scheme and the programme to reduce student credit debt will complement this. These efforts can really be measured in the growth of family-creation drive and in the rise in birth numbers. A significant economic example of jasmine shows this development: recently, according to increased demands, we handed over a new 9 group kindergarten in Jászfényzaru, with a state grant of HUF 105 million, with a total cost of HUF 695 million. Secretary of State, with all due respect, how does the government continue to support families? What other incentives can be used to stop the decline of the Hungarian population in the long term and to start growth? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-38	Thank you, Congressman János Pócs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-06-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The joyful consequence of these government measures is that the fertility rate has now increased from 1,25 in 2010 to 1,49, so the Hungarian families are taking on more children. We hope that this trend will continue, both through support and in any case. It is also important that the percentage of work-based subsidies in family support was 24% in 2010, so 24 percent were when someone took on both work and children, and we increased the benefits by now 58 percent of the benefits within all benefits that were fixed for work. It is also important that the single-key tax system and the family discount have left a total of HUF 3000 billion for families since 2010; this is a huge amount of money, that is how much further ahead, that is how much further the families are. If you look at the amount of money per family, this is 240 thousand forints per year on average, or more than 1.5 million forints per year, which has been left with families over the past few years, and you can count on each other to do so, let's say, saving money at the reduction. Tax relief for two children continues to increase. In 2018, it will be 35 thousand forints a month, and from 2019 it will be 40,000 forints, as the government has undertaken to double the tax relief of the two children in four years. The government's recent decision will also reduce the mortgage debt of third and additional children, which the state will take over for a million forints. It is also important for the future that the government is committed to cradle development. In 2018, nearly HUF 37 billion will receive budget support for day care and the development of nursery facilities, and if I look at EU and domestic subsidies overall, the sum of which we try to help families in this way by building new nurserys and new kindergartens will be HUF 100 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:, Do you think they will now receive better care? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2017-11-06-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Exactly a year and a half ago, I asked Mr. Secretary of State why the active beds at the cellar hospital had been removed, why the specialties had been transferred to Dombóvár and Tamási, and why they had been transferred as premises to the hospital in Mombóvár. Then I got the answer: overall, we tried to improve access to professional services at Cellar with HUF 200 million. Compared to this, the sense of security of supply in and around the Cellar is getting worse. Everyone already attends specialties in Tamási, which can only be approached by transfer from some settlements, but the benefits do not even satisfy the people of Tamási, because they do not get the right dates. The supply area has increased, the number of people who should be cared for has increased, so the supply has deteriorated. There is a rheumatological order in Tamási once a week, for orthopedic orders, if you make an appointment in September, you can only get it for December, for cardiology, if you ask for an appointment in October, then there is only a time for March. Do you think this is the development of specialist care? Did it take 200 million forints to eliminate active beds at Cellar? So you can just put her in a nursing home now? So there won't be any specialized clinics at the basement hospital? And do you get a six months, six months appointment at the specialty clinic in Tamás? If the children are to be taken to Domboara, they will receive much worse care now than they have ever received. I think that this area is not one of the best areas, and we owe it to you. But people who live there deserve to be given normal health care, so that they don't have to travel for a day to get to Dombovar for professional care, they deserve decent health care. If that's what you've achieved for 200 million forints, congratulations.
u2017-11-06-42	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. I would like to ask the Secretary of State of Bence Rétvári to respond.
u2017-11-06-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, From the 200 million HUF development that really took place in Pincehely, one of the wings of the building was completely renovated, which means that patients can heal in modern infrastructure conditions. In addition, new tools could also be purchased; I believe that the new tools can also facilitate better medical treatment with the residents of the cellar. It continues to operate in Cellar and provides patients with surgery, obstetrics and internal medicine, and blood collection can also take place here, so there is no need to travel anywhere. [[12.20]] However, all these are maintained despite the fact that, in most of these, patient traffic is far below the national average, who are involved in these benefits. In the Tamás clinic, patients can use health insurance-funded benefits in 21 professions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Patients must be in a better position than when you have withdrawn 600 billion forints from health care; when you have taken out 16,000 active beds; and when you have laid off 6,000 medical workers [[Anita Heringes: There was an active bed at Cellar, it's closed! You've turned him into a hospice, and there's no care!]] One month's salary was also taken from those who remained. The situation is even better, since 77 hospitals have been renovated in whole or in part since 2010, 23 new clinics have been built, 54 clinics have been renovated, 30 new rescue stations and 104 rescue stations have been renovated. This is good news and positive news for patients in all parts of the country, as their care has become more modern. The good news is that the government spent 500 billion forints on developing rural hospitals and rural healthcare providers. And the good news for the people of Budapest is that this year we will try to modernise Pest County and Budapest care by HUF 40 billion and by hundreds of billions in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Will the Opel factory in Szentgotthárd finally have concrete answers? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2017-11-06-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, I tried to get a concrete response from you in relation to the government's standing for the employees of the Opel factory in Szentgotthárd, with little success. Unfortunately, the situation has only gotten worse since nearly a hundred people were recently released from the plant. While the government has been trying to take credit for previous successes, in the past few weeks they have been embarrassed to listen. Mr Cseresnyés, Minister of State's reply at that time, outraged a significant proportion of the workers in the factory and those who took on solidarity with them, as he presented a school example of double-talk and slashing. What happened in Szentgotthárd? According to the official justification, WHC Kft. its employees were sent back to the temporary employment company because they do not want their work in the future. The problem is that these people came to work at the Opel at the time and outlined a promising vision for them. My fellow Members, we are talking about human fates and the future of families. In addition, further dismissals are expected, and the signs are in the wrong direction. The stakeholders are waiting for concrete answers, as there are more and more places to read about the threat of the Opel factory in Szentgotthárd. Due to the decline in orders, further downsizing is expected from January, which could affect the company's own stock. In the event that PSA switch completely to its own engines, the future of the factory becomes questionable, which could have a disastrous impact on Szentgotthárd and its region. It is also regrettable that, in the absence of substantial information, people are mostly only informed about the news from the shower news. I just hope this time I get a more tangible answer than the last one. The government has always given priority to the importance of protecting jobs, so it would be time to take effective measures to this end. The workers at the factory are finally expecting real and straight answers from you. Dear Secretary of State, What steps are being taken to save jobs in Szentgotthárd? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-46	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-11-06-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, While I was listening to you, I was saddened to ask myself whether, in the event that you should settle this case, the employees of Opel would not go the same way as in one of your citadels, Tisavasvári, where you are giving the mayor: in the past period, while employment has increased in the country, unemployment has decreased, unemployment has increased by 3 percent in Tisavasvári. So it wouldn't have decreased like it did in other parts of the country, it would have grown. [[Dr. András Aradski: Sad.]] And compared to the national average, if I remember correctly, unemployment is roughly three times higher. [[Dr. András Aradski: Even sadder.]] But to answer your question in substance, precisely because I do not want to be intimidated here by the constant alarm: I would like to say that the Hungarian Government provides all the conditions for companies of foreign interest to be interested in the expansion and development of their activities in Hungary, for which we have also taken a number of measures to increase competitiveness. Thanks to the reduction of corporate tax, we have the lowest, most competitive corporate tax rate in Europe, the reduction of social contribution tax, the tax incentives introduced in the field of labour mobility and housing, and the new forms of investment support all contribute to the continued competitiveness of Opel's Szentgotthárd plant in Hungary. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: This is more convincing once more!]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the National Investment Agency HIPA conducts continuous dialogue with Opel Szentgotthárd Kft. in order to position the Hungarian factory. After the change of ownership, Opel's management is working on a plan for the future of the company, the results of which, according to our knowledge, and as you have read, Szentgotthárd's mayor said so, will be presented in November. In parallel, I would like to say that in recent years, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it is not a question of how unemployment will be, how people who want to work can be employed by employers. [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] In Vas County, for example, only 42 people in the first ten months of the year (The President is ringing again). a group reduction was announced, but Opel did not make such an announcement. Sorry for the delay, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-06-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Statistically decreasing poverty? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2017-11-06-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. We keep hearing from the government that the hunger for children has ceased and that hundreds of thousands of families have managed to break out of poverty. In reality, however, the situation of poor families has not improved, only the definition of poverty has changed, the government has managed to change classifications and various statistical tricks to reduce poverty on paper. In 2013, you changed the definition of a disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantage so that, in addition to low income, other disadvantages should be justified. So a child whose parents are public workers and have completed a public worker's course is no longer considered to be underprivileged. As a result, while in 2010, 476,000 children were underprivileged, only 212 thousand were last year. This reduced the number of children who are entitled to a free holiday meal to half of the amount of money, since, in addition to the need for income, the disadvantage has become a condition. The other trick they used was to freeze the income threshold. The right to a regular child protection allowance for children of poor families has been established on the basis of the same income threshold for nine years. Therefore, if the income of the family increases even a little, it loses entitlement, while the livelihood is still not guaranteed. As a result, the number of persons entitled to regular child protection benefits has decreased by more than 200 thousand since 2010. Anyone who falls away from this support will no longer be entitled to free day care, free elementary and reduced high school meals. Statistically, therefore, child hunger almost ceased. But the reality has not changed, Mr. Secretary, the reality is still tragic. My question is whether steps are being taken to finally change reality and not just statistics. I'm asking you very much not to lie about the LMP in your answer. I believe it is very embarrassing that the Fidesz government, which introduced 60 new taxes [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] which introduced 27 percent record high VAT [[The president's ringing again.]] And your family policy is about serving the business interests of some families... so answer my question about child hunger. Thank you.
u2017-11-06-50	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-06-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Fidesz-KDNP introduced taxes that are paid by multi-company companies. Banks, international trading companies, energy suppliers or foreign-owned utility suppliers that really have to pay more in the Hungarian tax system, precisely so that we can then tax thousands of billions to Hungarian families. This is the difference between the policy of the left and the right that we want to give tax relief to Hungarian families from the taxes of the multinationals. This is the other way around in the time of left-wing governments. Your reasoning, Congresswoman, is wrong in substance and in form. You took out two numbers that, if you had looked at the development of the number of disadvantaged, cumulative disadvantaged children, you would have seen that there was a decrease every year. Obviously, if this were to depend on a legislative amendment, there would only be a reduction in one year, every year there is a decrease, because each year, fortunately, the number of these children has fallen. It's not a trick, because it's a positive, declining process year after year, and the numbers disprove you in this case. [[12.30]] He told us not to look at government statistics. You are a great friend of the European Union. Let us look at how much the number of people exposed to one of the three poverty factors in the European Union's Eurostat statistics decreased between 2012 and 2015, i.e. income poverty, labour poverty, severe deprivation. Non-Hungarian, based on Eurostat methodology, the number of people exposed to one of the factors of poverty has decreased by 800,000. Do you also think that the European Union is lying to serve the Hungarian government's goals, and that the European Union is bringing direct cosmetic data about Hungary to help the government's policy? It would be a very complex conspiracy theory. Children's hunger is decreasing, Madam Member, because in the time of the left-wing government, HUF 29 billion has been earmarked for this purpose, and we intend to spend more than HUF 70 billion and HUF 79 billion next year. It's decreasing because we're spending two and a half times as much. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Font, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. What is the truth about the bridge investment? It's an address. Congressman Font Sándor has the floor.
u2017-11-06-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2015, the government decided to build a domestic budget bridge between Dunán Kalocsa and Paks in connection with the Paks plant investment. The inhabitants of the region have long been waiting for such an investment, as the bridge is expected to strengthen economic relations between the two regions: the inhabitants of the left bank of the Danube and entrepreneurs can join in building the next pace of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and even in its operation; and the people on the right bank of the Danube may be closer to, for example, the farmers processing plants in Bács-Kiskun, such as the Glencore Plant Oil Works Plant and the Kalocsa Hospital, which has been continuously developed over the past seven years. Obviously, it is no coincidence that the construction of the bridge came up in connection with the investment in the power plant, because if we really want to make it Hungarian for 40 percent of the suppliers and contractors involved in the construction work, then all the economic power of the entire region will have to be used on both banks of the Danube. At last, the Kalocsans and the people in the area will be able to add to the nuclear power plant with which they have been living together for decades, despite the difficulty of approaching it now because of the Danube. As much waiting for the bridge in the region, the local opposition is making such a great effort to undermine the credibility of the investment. Over the past two years, rumors of all kinds have been spread, most recently the total failure of the bridge investment has been visualized in the respective electoral districts. This is very disturbing, as the locals trust the government's decision and await the construction of the bridge. I therefore ask the Secretary of State how the preparation of the bridge construction is at present, how the planned schedule of the investment is going to be. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-54	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradszki.
u2017-11-06-55	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you so much for asking, because when it comes to Paks II. I took part in a public hearing on environmental issues in Gerjen, Kalocsa and its surroundings, and I felt that there was an emotional need to have a bridge between Kalocsa and Paks. I am pleased to report to you and to the people in the region that the implementation of the planned Danube Bridge is a major investment in Hungary's short- and medium-term road development programme. The bridge and the related roads in the project connect main road 51 to main road 6 and motorway M6 twice in one lane. By the end of May 2017, four tenders were received in the procurement procedure for the implementation of the planning tasks, so the public procurement started. The scope of the tasks to be carried out shall cover the environmental impact assessment, the Natura 2000 impact assessment documentation, the preparation of the permit and application plan and the acquisition of the environmental and building permit. The successful tenderer became the Kalocsa Bridge 2017 Consortium and the design contract was concluded on 5 October 2017. The construction can start in the first quarter of 2020 after the availability of the work areas, and the expected completion of the investment is expected in the first half of 2022. In the course of the project, significant capacity for freight transport is expected on the Paks national road network, resulting in the government planning to renew twelve road sections in Tolna and Bács-Kiskun counties for some 153 kilometres. Thanks to road renovations or road development, it is clear that the economic development of the region will take precedence and that the number of investments to create jobs is expected to increase. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Teleki, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question about who and what does Flórián Farkas know that Fidesz protects him until he is nailed? It's an address. Congressman Teleki has the floor.
u2017-11-06-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, I've been asking why Florian Farkas is being protected to such an extent, and I really didn't get any answer, just that he's the leader of the largest gypsy organization, and that's why they feel the need to protect Florian Farkas. Dear Secretary of State, You're an honest man. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Thank you very much. You've got to stop here.]] You are an honest man, and I think you should protect the taxpayers, because the Farkas Florians stole the money that Zoltán Balog's Ministry asked for back, but two or three months later, the Minister left and organized a birthday celebration on Szolnok. Mr. Secretary. I think it upsets the Hungarian population, and not just the Roma population, that they are trying to make money disappear and provide a background for the disappearance that is made up of taxpayers' money. I think you should look at where Flórian Farkas has put the resources that the media has written in many cases, either RomNet or other media, and you are unwilling to investigate its political part in substance, not the criminal part of where this money has disappeared. You can see and know that Flória Farkas has not spoken in this four-year term. What is outrageous is that he earns more than one million forints and is not in the Chamber, Flória Farkas is not talking about Gypsy in Hungary when it comes to budgeting, closing accounting, health care or education. Dear Secretary of State, When do you want to tie this thread around Flórian Farkas, and thus defend the Gypsy in Hungary, try to do a real fact-finding that calms the public down and calms the Gypsy in Hungary? Because I think, as you said, Florian Farkas should not be respected because he has more people in his organization, but should be respected when he does honest, honest work; this is not what the Hungarian people see. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-58	Thank you, Congressman Teleki. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-06-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As I said last week, it is clear to a government that the largest gypsy organization is one of the most important partners, since he is the one who is in contact with most gypsies, who can represent their interests in the broadest range. It is not necessary for a government to establish a relationship with organisations of three or four, but with those who are really among the gypsy people, who are in the settlements, and who can interpret their requests and pass on their suggestions. That is why we have started the, Commissioner, children's homes, the school programme, or continued with the earlier proposals, or with the support of the Christian Roma College, so we have increased year after year to really help these social problems, because some of the people in difficulty are our fellow gypsy countrymen, some of them are not our gypsy countrymen, but it is important for everyone to be able to create jobs and create training programs. If any of the programs you referred to, or any other program, were irregularities, we have initiated the necessary procedures. In this case, too, we have launched twelve procedures; where we have experienced infringements, we have reclaimed these subsidies, and we have tried to be transparent and regular everywhere. Where State aid has not been used correctly or in an irregular manner, it has been recovered, precisely so that taxpayers' money can be used as efficiently and as legally as possible. You have seen - here in Parliament, too, we have been constantly reporting on the various investigations that have started, there have been first-degree, second-degree acts - what its results have been, and the press has also heard about this. But after that, it is equally important that, if these situations are clarified and legality and regularity are restored, we should continue the dialogue in the same way and take new and new steps to ensure that as many workers as possible are in Hungary, that unemployment is reduced and that as many as possible there are qualifications, even through targeted social programmes. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and then you can live in a better way, because you can get a better job. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.40]]
u2017-11-06-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy: It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2017-11-06-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As a fact, several press organisations have announced that your Ministry will prepare a comprehensive draft law regulating electromobility by the end of the year, including how electricity from electricity products will be converted into fuel products for charging electric cars. They are trying to meet the European Union directive, but this seems to have gone too far, since this is not what the EU directive is about. Every year, air pollution is increasing, and under all governments, it has been a topic of how to reduce this and reduce air pollution from transport, how to replace conventional vehicles with alternative, hybrid or purely electric vehicles. They try to give advantage to users of electric vehicles in different ways and to punish users of conventional vehicles. For example, in a smog situation, vehicles complying with lower standards cannot drive into Budapest's roads. Now, when car manufacturers have started to produce purely electric and hybrid cars more and more widely, and the infrastructure may also start to build in Hungary, they will invent that the electricity used to charge electric cars would be subject to excise duty as fuel products. Obviously, there is still such a thing as a parking charge or other charge for charging electric cars - included in a parking fee - but this is far from being subject to excise duty as a conventional fuel. Most of the time, they buy these vehicles because they bring significant benefits, precisely because they are environmentally friendly and do not pollute the air in our cities. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what the Government intends to do, how it intends to help in the future the spread of these vehicles and the further improvement in the protection of air purity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-11-06-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to ask you not to mislead the people, the students, or to use your words, not to set them up; because the government and the NGM are determined to support the development of electromobility. This is shown by the discounts that electric car owners already receive. I'd like to list some of them. These include, for example, tax exemptions. No registration tax and no registration fee. You don't have to pay a company car tax or a local car tax. The electric vehicle is also exempt from the property acquisition levy. Furthermore, the promotion of free parking with green plates is also a supporting factor. Parking regulations are local regulations, as you mentioned, but in the charging application, free parking was a condition. Third, I would like to mention that e-Mobi Electromobility Nonprofit Kft. By setting up a self-owned company, the portfolio was established to implement electromobility improvements, such as charging plantings. In addition, we have introduced a discount on the purchase of electric cars, which has been operating continuously since September 2016, and it is supported by the purchase of 35 cars for private individuals, with a value of up to HUF 1.5 million per car. We support charging programmes. The costs of setting up municipal chargers are fully financed. We also provide support for innovation and development for the development of the electromobility background industry, including through the international research cooperation of Electric Mobility Europe. To sum up, therefore, the government strongly supports the development of electromobility. The National Economy Wallet for Electric Cars [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] do not intend to make any changes to your home. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Why doesn't the government alleviate the housing problems of hundreds of thousands of families? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2017-11-06-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. The government's housing policy is also aimed at families looking above average. For those who really need help, there is almost nothing. In 2016, 77 percent of budget support was granted to families with higher incomes, while targeted housing allowances for poor families are shrinking year by year. According to a recent research, almost 27 percent of the inhabitants of the country live in homes that are soaking, watering, or moldy, with more than half a million children living in these conditions. Where there are three children, there is almost certainly overcrowding. According to international comparative data, 40 percent of Hungarian homes are like this. In 2016, 1.6 million households had debts. In the case of natural gas and district heating, almost 100,000 consumers and hundreds of thousands of consumers in the case of electricity have a debt that threatens to deactivate. The number of off-line consumers is also in the order of ten thousand. A third of 136 thousand non-performing mortgage loans also face serious payment problems. In recent years, the government has made a spectacular withdrawal from supporting families in need. In 2015, you abolished the housing and debt reduction aid, and you still don't want to hear about the rental program. The municipalities were left alone to deal with the housing problems of poor families. The municipal housing stock for social purposes is less than one and a half percent of the total housing, and part of it is extremely degraded. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, why doesn't the government ease the housing problems of hundreds of thousands of poor families? Why don't you start a public housing program, provide housing support, reduce the VAT on housing renovations, and don't you give money to families for energy efficiency renovations? I look forward to your reply, and I look forward to your response in light of the fact that you are looking around the country. Every number I've said has families behind it, children's lives. In light of this, I look forward to your reply.
u2017-11-06-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-06-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It will be difficult for you to prove that twice or threefold the increase in fees improves housing conditions, but the reduction in overhead benefits the rich and not the poor, and the CSOK does not exist in Hungary - because you have tried to outline such a picture here, honourable Member. You did not help, but caused the housing problems of Hungarian families when you were even a part of the period of MSZP, which increased the amount of foreign currency debt in Hungary by a hundred times the amount of the Hungarian currency debt, and boosted the foreign currency loan because of the destruction of the first Orbán government's supported HUF-credit system. On the other hand, we are trying to reduce both poverty problems and housing problems. For example, 6.9 percent of the apartments in which the residents live are overcrowded, but obviously this is also a number to be reduced, we can agree on that. Housing expenditure in Hungary accounts for 21.5 percent of family income, 21 and half. 22 and a half in the EU. Luckily, today, a Hungarian must spend less on his apartment than the EU average. The overcrowding rate has also fallen from 47 percent to 40 percent in Hungary over the last seven years. The cost of heating is 25 percent lower than before. Overall, the reduction left HUF 909 billion in the pockets of Hungarian families. It is also good news for new apartment builders that the VAT on new apartments is 5 percent, very discounted. Up to HUF 5 million, families can also use a very reduced VAT rate for building their own house. The government spent 50 billion forints on energy modernisation, and we were also able to implement energy modernisation for 145 thousand families in the program "Home Gay" and, in addition, the family's home creation discount provides support to Hungarian families in the order of 100 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] completely new, modern, low-cost houses. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.50]]
u2017-11-06-68	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Józsa, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. Congressman István Józsa has the floor.
u2017-11-06-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the development of Hungarian competitiveness, because the experience is that Hungarian competitiveness is constantly decreasing rather than increasing. The competitiveness report of the Hungarian National Bank presented in the days seems to disprove the optimism of the government and the President of the National Bank. The National Bank itself contradicts György Matolcsy, his own leader, when he exposes the Hungarian fairy tale in such a way that in reality competitiveness is falling, contrary to what the government claims. In 2016, the World Economic Forum once warned about the worrying signs that Minister Mihály Varga said only that an opinion does not matter yet, and it will soon be different. This week and last week's 2017 indicators also show that the situation has not improved, but is falling backwards, we have slipped seven places backwards in competitiveness indicators; it seems that the lack of legal certainty and administrative burdens continue to weigh on Hungarian competitiveness. We know that more laws have already been put in place to increase competitiveness, but it does not seem to be enough in itself, because Bulgaria is the only one with better competitiveness at the moment. One of the crucial problems is the lack of skilled workers, and the reason for this is the incredible social breakdown. Focus should be on the knowledge-based society, which would require investment in education and the future. I ask Mr Secretary of State when you are intended to make a real investment to improve competitiveness. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-70	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-11-06-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, I have to say that you are confusing Fidesz governance with the socialists, your government, because you were the ones who put the country in a state of bankruptcy, it was you who taxed Hungarian businesses and wages to death, who sold the entire municipal system. During your governance, unemployment has increased and wages have fallen. Thanks to the brutal austerity measures, Hungary's competitiveness at that time, in your time, continued to fall and deepen during your governance. For this reason, it is very difficult for the socialists, and for you, to endure the lecture, because the primary measure of the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy is the dynamic growth of the economy, the expansion of investment, the creation of more than 740 thousand new jobs since 2010, the balanced budget and the declining public debt. The government, which was founded in 2010, inherited a heavy burden from you, a budget deficit exceeding 3 per cent, a booming sovereign debt, households indebted to the extreme in foreign currency, and an economy that has completely lost its growth momentum. On the other hand, the Hungarian economy is currently clearly strengthening, the performance of our economy is also remarkable among EU members, with GDP increasing by 3.6 percent in the first half of 2017. I must point out that I deny you: Hungary has made nine points in the competitiveness comparison of the World Economic Forum published a month ago. Hungary's assessment of the stability of the banking system and the efficiency of the labour market has particularly improved, but it can be concluded that Hungary has improved in eight of the 12 areas examined by the ranking. He mentioned that only Bulgaria should be prevented in the European Union. I would like to say that many countries: Croatia, Belgium, Cyprus, Greece and Luxembourg, and even Malta, are ahead of the competitiveness indicator. So I'm going to deny everything you've told me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-72	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Public allowance, or how can the health situation of Borsod County be further destroyed? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed.
u2017-11-06-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Hungarian health care has been seriously ill for decades. This is demonstrated by the continuing deterioration of public health. In Borsod, a single hospital can provide full health care for the county with approximately 700,000 inhabitants, since as a result of the restructuring of the hospitals in Miskolc, the county seat is now suffering from chronic medical failure and infrastructure problems. In the past, several applications for development of the county and urban hospital were rejected by the Orbán government. They did not support, inter alia, the purchase of ultrasound and X-ray equipment, the development of central sterilization and neurosurgical care, thereby further impairing people's chances in the county with poor health indicators. A few months ago, Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary of Health announced that the county hospital will be combined with the city hospital, which will function as a super hospital, but to everyone's surprise, not Gábor Csiba, who has been leading for twenty years, was appointed to the head, but Sándor Tiba, who happens to be the brother of the Fidesz Parliamentary Representative, István Tiba. The decision was justified by the fact that the appointment of the director of an institution is not an experience, but rather a question of trust. Secretary of State said that within the framework of the super hospital, the mental capacity and technical potential of the two hospitals in Miskolc will be combined, and this will be better for the patients. However, there is still no evidence of developments, and strategic professional leaders have been cut off or their situation is impossible. The current government seems to deny profit-oriented health care and want to shift responsibility to someone else. Meanwhile, Sándor Tiba's interest runs on Ukrainian strings. The Ukrainian-based CRU Hungary Kft., which organizes clinical investigations, is linked to Sándor Tiba's career, the company concluded a cooperation agreement with the Hungarian-led MISEK Kft. with a value of HUF 300 million. CRU is a key partner of the Macro Clinic in Miskolc, and the super hospital led by Sándor Tiba is the background institution of this multibillion-dollar private health business. I would like these questions to be explained by the Secretary of State and encouraging words for the people of Borsod County. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-74	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-06-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Crying out of Jobbik's faction about someone living somewhere in health care; well, look in front of you, a little to the right, and look at the medical exporter of Parliament whose family business made a profit from it, and he was proud to report on how to send doctors abroad, to Ireland or elsewhere. If you are looking for a person in Hungary or anywhere who wanted to make a good living by making it worse for Hungarian patients, because there are fewer doctors, but better for him, because he obviously obtained a good sum of this mediation fee, then look around the Jobbik fraction. And if you don't think it's acceptable for someone, let's say, to be involved in medical exports and thus to undermine the health standards of another county or country, then you recommend excluding your fellow Member from the Jobbik faction. How come you think better medical exports are good, and besides, you want to see more resources in health care? On the other hand, honourable Member, it is important to say this here, since you have said misleading sentences, there has been no negative change in the number of employees, and of course the new super-hospital continues to employ everyone. However, in order to avoid seeing developments in the Starpoint or in the new super hospital, you have to keep your eyes closed, honourable Member, since 19 billion forints of infrastructure development has been completed in the last seven years, and a half billion forints of energy development has been achieved in recent years, and 700 million forints of human resources has been developed, a total of 22 billion forints. Another HUF 600 million building energy development is under preparation and will soon be completed, with a psychiatric care network of HUF 3 billion, child emergency and traumatic care, overnight surgery and the laboratory's instrumentality, and a human resources development and residential prevention programme of HUF 500 million will be implemented. Mr President, these are improvements that are visible to everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2017-11-06-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of the Interior: what does the government do for families living in energy poverty? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-11-06-77	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Winter's here. Energy poverty has been a problem in Hungary for many years. We have long been talking about more than just homeless people, many of whom lack housing and freeze to death on the streets. For in many families, and this is proven by the data of the KSH, poverty means that they cannot save enough money for winter heating, so they will suffer frost death in their homes, or at least their health will be significantly weakened because of the cold. The most affected are the singles, the elderly, the large families, the family members. Due to the cessation of normative housing support, the transformation of the compulsory chimney sweep service and the anomalies in fee back management, the situation continues to deteriorate. The social fuel support system has helped with this problem, but, as the LMP has repeatedly submitted Parliamentary resolution proposal, we are far from a good and full solution. The government, albeit lightly disposed of some resources, did not take into account the diversity of the need. Many families live in apartments where they can't heat with trees. In many places, there is a need for a more efficient combustion plant, a statutory chimney modernisation, which is hundreds of thousands of forints, perhaps the use of more accessible and environmentally friendly heating solutions. Winter's here, and the government has nothing to say about all this? Everything is heated out of the force, which, as a result of only enough practice, can now be measured in many places in the countryside by more severe air pollution indicators than in downtown Budapest, which causes further diseases and premature deaths. What is the government's operational action for this winter and for next years? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-11-06-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2017-11-06-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You are constantly questioning the government's energy programme, did not support the reduction of the rent, which left over a hundred thousand forints in the family, did not support Paks II. Nor the construction of it, which would make the reduction of costs sustainable in the long term. If it were up to you, there wouldn't be a firewood program. Don't you think it's a big turnoff that you're asking for the firewood program as a green couple? Since Ron Werber has been your advisor, you're beginning to wonder who they are and what they represent. The fuel-related social programme was launched in 2011 at the initiative of the Ministry of Interior in order to enable residents to manage winter social fuel in areas with small settlements, small-income settlements and farms where it is difficult for them to manage winter social fuel in scattered farm areas. This has been the case since 2011, my fellow Member. In 2017, a total of HUF 4 billion was available for the social firewood programme. 2255 municipalities won the social fuel tender announced by the Ministry of Interior, they have to deliver the fuel by 15 February and received 3 billion HUF 578 million. The aid granted to municipalities was already transferred at the beginning of October, so we can help 180 thousand households. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Honourable Congressman, The 2018 budget, which was adopted by Parliament in June, also provides resources for 2018. I regret that you did not vote in favour of the budget, because if you had voted in favour, you could take seriously the concerns that you have expressed. But you are not working for the people, you have spoken for political gain, even today. So what I can tell you is that the government, the municipalities, the social care systems are prepared for the winter period. And what we can tell you is that we've helped people so far, that's why we work, and people can count on us in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: "Did you draw the lessons of the Quaestor case, or did you ensure effective legal oversight of the municipalities? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor.
u2017-11-06-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, In the spring of 2015, the Quaestor group, represented by Csaba Tarsoly, fell in. The bankruptcy of the brokerage company has put not only thousands of small investors, but also many municipalities in difficulty. Mr. Secretary. In April 2015, you mentioned at a press conference that the municipality of Újpest is also in this area. Subsequently, the State Audit Office also examined the decisions of the Municipality of Újpest concerning investments, and the report contains several serious findings. According to this, the decision-making and decision-making of certain investments of the municipality did not comply with the legal requirements and the asset management regulation. I could give you a long list of irregularities, but I would quote from a more than 50-page SAO report. A contract was concluded with Quaestor despite the fact that it did not constitute a transparent organisation, but did not comply with the local regulations of the municipality. The analytical accounting of the sales securities was not correct either, the assets were not declared in the annual accounts in accordance with reality, the accounting policy was wrong, the account order was also incorrect, the corruption index was 25-45 percent, which was high. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask Minister why the continued legal oversight of government agencies has not been able to detect these irregularities. Have the lessons learned from the Quaestor case been drawn, have measures been taken to increase the effectiveness of judicial supervision? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-11-06-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Minister János Lázár. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-11-06-83	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for your question, and thank you very much for bringing this matter up, although there is no doubt that in this case man is required to be indebted to the municipalities and that the municipalities could take on so much credit, the faction and the government that you and the faction in which you are sitting had a crucial role and task. After all, the Government of the Hungarian Socialist Party made it necessary for the municipalities to borrow as much as possible between 2002 and 2010, and this government, the Socialist Government, allowed the municipalities to be indebted by legislation. One of the consequences was that a large number of municipalities, even districts, risked their assets or risked their financial security. In the specific case, I note that the government office has done everything that could be done within the framework of the legislation. I believe the State Audit Office has conducted a fair investigation. After 2010, the legislation, partly with your support and support, amended the laws relating to the debt of municipalities, financial commitments and financial transactions. So what I can tell you is that what might have happened at the time because of a socialist rule is now virtually out of the question. After all, the municipalities cannot carry out such a transaction today, and they can also create debt only if the Ministry of Economy and the Government contribute to this. You can't make a financial commitment in the form of a loan under any other legal circumstances than what I just mentioned. It is an important suggestion - in this cycle, I think, that the political conditions of this are no longer in place - to further strengthen the control powers of government agencies compared to the period 2010-14, and to broaden this with regard to the management of local governments. If there is such socialist support for a two-thirds amendment, we will thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-84	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2017-11-06-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Among the walls of Parliament, I have tried several times to ask the authorities about the prison hospital to be built in the new village of Berettyó, but unfortunately I have not received a fair answer from any of its fellow State Secretarys. As you know, the government wants to build the prison hospital in the new village of Berettyó, right next to the local Count Tisza István Hospital. At the beginning of October, a local referendum was held on this issue, and two thirds of the voters rejected the plan of the prison hospital, and the Fidesz city administration, referring to the ineffectiveness of the referendum, wants to beat the project by force, ignoring the opinion of 3,000 people. [[13.10]] During the board meeting following the referendum, Mayor István Muraköli refused to speak to the local people in an undemocratic manner, including Dr Zákány Zsolt, who was the chief physician of the local hospital. The reason why the locally respected doctor couldn't take the floor was because he took a stand against the prison hospital in the referendum campaign. But that was not enough, after the board meeting, the local Fidesz started a disgusting smear campaign against Zsolt Zákány, whose professional work has been outstanding in recent decades. This was confirmed by the hospital's management. The political persecution reached its peak just a week after the referendum, when Zoltán Muraköli, director general of the hospital, who is the nephew of the mayor's brother, the Fidesz representative of the district, replaced Zsolt Zákány from his chief medical position. This depraved, unscrupulous move is not only infuriating because you are being dragged around for political reasons, trying to make an excellent doctor impossible, but also because you ignore patients who have extraordinary respect for the doctor. Dear Secretary of State, Do you agree with this procedure? Today, doctors in Hungary are being made impossible for political reasons. Is that okay with you? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-86	Thank you, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We also sometimes have questions, honourable Member. After desecrating the Holocaust Monument on the Danube, you wrote on Facebook that I recommend that if you are sad or tired, visit here, you will feel like continuing the work, which our ancestors unfortunately did not finish, thus encouraging everyone to continue the Holocaust. But you're protected by the Jobbik faction, you may be a Member of Parliament, you can continue your work as a representative, because it's an acceptable position for Jobbik. This shows what Jobbik's affair is or who he keeps within his own faction for real persecution. As regards the matter you raised, honourable Member, there have been hospital inspections on compliance with the standards, compliance with Section 6.4 of the collective agreement, and compliance with the requirements of the Hungarian Medical Association, the Ethics Committee has also initiated proceedings concerning compliance with or non-compliance with the Code of Ethics of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. These investigations are therefore conducted entirely independently of the Ministry, in compliance with various regulations, medical, professional or hospital regulations. The chief doctor also maintained his status as a public servant, and maintained his post as a chief of medicine. According to the hospital, the situation was accepted by the person concerned, so he can continue to contribute to the treatment of patients as he did before, continue to carry on his activities that you said were highly appreciated in the settlement, which I have no reason to doubt here. Nevertheless, compliance with or non-compliance with these rules will, in this case and in other cases, be investigated in an independent manner by the Chamber or by the bodies acting to implement the collective agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-06-88	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-11-06-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Tax relief for children is an important element of the system that reduces the cost of raising children for a family. At the same time, the tax relief will cease at a time when it is most needed when the child is starting higher education studies. He knew that the costs of this were higher than those of previous educational steps, but that was when a significant amount of money fell out of the family budget. Higher education is largely covered by the family, as the child is not yet a earner in most cases. In many cases, lack of resources, declining family incomes also prevent a child from continuing to study because they cannot cover tuition, meals, dorms, rent, travel. There is no proper and comprehensive scholarship system, which could help, even though as many as possible get into higher education and as many as possible are better educated, national and social interests. Plus, the poorer, the disadvantaged, are the ones who are losing the possibility of further education. Not only the children, but the whole family will be cut off from the possibility of ascension. LMP has repeatedly proposed extending family tax incentives to higher education students. This was always rejected by the Fidesz majority, last spring, during the budget negotiations. This is not surprising, unfortunately, because the idea of an anti-educational wage-based society by the government does not fit in with the expansion of higher education, opening it up to the broadest possible layer. However, we have to ask: is Fidesz willing to follow the LMP proposal and extend the family tax reduction to children studying in higher education until they are 24 years old? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2017-11-06-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before we get to the substantive answer, let us be clear: now the LMP supports the Fidesz government's family personal income tax policy, the family support system, or not? Do you support it or not? [[István Ikotity: May I answer?]] Of course. Nod. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] As far as we know, [[István Ikotity: Secretary of State, I asked you to answer. Don't ask me.]] LMP does not support the single-key personal income tax system, but wants a multi-key system. We were told that he didn't support the family tax relief system. Compared to this, Fidesz has now developed a system, as it is now popular, but would like an extension and a supplement. First, we must decide, Mr LMP, honourable Member, [[István Ikotity: Secretary of State, answer my question. Don't ask me, for fuck's sake.]] You are now in favour of the government's family tax relief policy, or you are not in favour of it. That's the basic question. [[István Ikotity: I ask questions, Mr State Secretary, you answer. You're losing your role! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you support it, you can propose a supplement from there, I think. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Switch places!]] That's one of the questions. The basic question is that your question, no matter how much you yell here, is discredited because you don't support family tax incentives, now you want to expand it. I don't think it works that way. Moreover, it does not claim reality when it says that there is no complete, complex scholarship system in higher education. I will read to you in these 20 seconds some of the following: the National Excellence Programme, the New National Excellence Programme, the Klebelsberg Training Scholarship Program, the Hungarian Star Scholarship Scheme, the Mihalicza Scholarship Program, the Support of Law Faculties for National Excellence and Study Lawyer Scholarship Program, the National Talent Program, the Promotion of Doctoral Scholarships, the National Higher Education Scholarship, the . [[István Ikotity applauds.]] Honourable Congressman, Through scholarships, the higher education system is fully supported in the current system. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-06-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What will happen to you? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-06-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, After drawing attention to the mistakes made by the management of MÁV-Start against the Hungarian railway, rather than getting involved, the Ministry of National Development, as a supervisory body, obviously approved the squinting, the misrepresentation and the deflecting. So let us try again to get a straight answer from the authorities. However, I ask you very much not to use a production report, serialization and smoothing, to stun the public this time. When will the management of the MÁV understand that they should be mentally converted from state money, i.e. from taxpayers' pockets, to public services? I mean, it'd be nice if you could talk to the people involved every once in a while about making a decision. What justifies the hundreds of billions spent on railway infrastructure if passenger transport services are constantly being developed? Don't you think there's any business in that? We still don't know why the fast trains of the busiest main lines had to be significantly reduced two years ago. Why do they want to eliminate the uniform hourly intercity movement on the country's main axis? Why did the downtown ticket office have to be shut down and why the night flight to Berlin had to be cancelled? Why did you let the car renovation project fail? I mean, if this goes on, even in a decade, we're still gonna be rolling toilet cars on the tracks. For MÁV, why is the Romanian example of the elimination of dining cars the model to be followed, why not, let's say, the Slovak, so that we don't go far, because even there they can operate them profitably? [[13.20]] What rational reason is there for the reduction of the START card's frequent travel discount? Although trains travelling to Szeklerland are very important to Hungarians in the absence of a motorway, do they consider these cuts acceptable? When are we gonna hear about a long-distance sideline concept? And can it be avoided that, unlike the small railway in Fidesz, the Hungarian railway does not become a 1:1 scale field table for Fidesz gentlemen? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradski. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, During today, we have heard several opinions on transport from Jobbik's representatives. The representatives of a persisting party are able to do so, because Mr Simicska, you can see that you have bought Jobbik, made him a lobby organization, and that this party is capable of anything for money and power. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] In addition, they create completely unexpected and totally untrue situations and facts. From this, it is clear what would happen if the Hungarian railway was controlled by Jobbik. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] It would be in the hands of a wired party, which would focus solely on filling the owners' pockets instead of the interests of the passengers. On the contrary, Congressman, the current government is rail-friendly against your claim. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks:]] He is aware of the importance of the railway with its outstanding social and economic role, and is doing everything in its power to ensure high-quality, seamless rail transport in Hungary. MÁV-START Zrt. continue to renew its fleet, the proportion of closed toilets will continue to increase over the next period. As part of the vehicle renewal programme, fittings fitted with a bistro car will also be placed on the market. I note that neither the railway company in Slovakia nor any other country considers the operation of the dining cars to be part of the basic service. MÁV-START Zrt. not to disassemble, but to redefine and renew the START Club card family's discount system in order to enable as many passengers as possible to find the best option in the offer. The foreign Hungarians are provided with rail transport between the mother country. It is not our fault that the part of the Harghita train in Targu Mures will cease from December because the Romanian party cannot provide a locomotive. The other two North Transylvanian trains, the Korona and Ady Endre, travel in order, and their composition varies according to the passenger requirements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-96	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What does the Government do and what does it miss so that children and families can live in a healthy environment in Hungary? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-06-97	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary today there are many burdens on the shoulders of families: do they have jobs, apartments, and livelihoods? In many cases, the answer is that they strive to ensure that only health is available. But today, health is at least as doubtful as all others, and even more important, because it is not only the stress caused by the former that undermines their health, but also pollution. In recent months, several studies have been published on the devastation of environmental pollution in health and life around the world, and how badly Hungary stands on this issue. According to statistics, Hungary takes the second place in the world after China on the platform of air pollution death. 12,800 people in our country die of air pollution every year. But just like that, we are beating in the death of cancer caused by environmental factors. You might think that only people over 65 can worry, but that's not true. Younger Hungarian women are more likely to die than men, for example, from cardiovascular diseases. There are more environmental causes of disease and premature death. In addition to air pollution, the lack of asbestos removal and environmental remediation of buildings, the excessive use of chemicals, the quality of food, noise pollution, combined with the life-style of poverty. What comprehensive and concrete measures does the government intend to take to ensure that we do not lose tens of thousands of Hungarian countrymen each year due to pollution, given that the LMP has already developed and submitted concrete proposals to address these problems? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-11-06-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The government's primary goal is to improve the health of Hungarian people and to reduce the factors that cause people's diseases, such as smoking, low- sport lifestyles, air pollution. Environmental pollution is a global and complex problem, and the government is making its decisions with this in mind, so we have already achieved significant results in all the areas mentioned on this issue, and we are planning a number of further steps. Years ago, we launched our program to improve air quality, using nearly 700 billion forints in the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors. The expansion of the programme is now being prepared to reduce the emissions of particulate matter by 55 percent compared to 2005 by 2030. This year, we have reviewed and modified the system for producing strategic noise maps. Since the launch of the national environmental remediation programme in 1996, nearly 600 remedial measures have been implemented in the amount of HUF 232 billion. A programme is being developed to reduce the high transport and take-over costs of building and demolition waste containing asbestos for the general public. In order to improve food safety, the government adopted a complex 20-point action plan this year. I think it is important to point out that all of this, which I have been talking about, can only be translated into real results with the involvement of the population. To this end, the government has launched the, the Teszd! . Action or. Heating wisely! - Campaign. I am convinced that Hungary is on the right track to reduce environmental harm and reduce health risks by coordinating government measures and further strengthening public awareness-raising. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-11-06-100	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 1:27 p.m., and we're going to discuss immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:, Relatives, buddies, and others 5? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2017-11-06-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, the last time you acted quite cowardly, because after you gave your report to Parliament, you stormed out of the Chamber, you did not even wait for the first speaker to start his speech. I remembered from Monty Python's famous film - by the way, this genre, I mean absurd humor, is not very far from you anyway - so from the Walking Galop, Sir Robin's story, where the cobzo sings, "Sir Robin, the brave one, ran away, in the face of the disaster as he could, ran away, pulling his tail. Now you're gonna have to listen to the question in person for at least two extra minutes, and you're gonna have to answer it in person. Even then, there would have been plenty to argue about. Instead of talking about the affairs of the central bank, you started party politics in a way that was incompatible with your position, you launched a political attack on a parliamentary faction. Of course, that wasn't the biggest problem, although it is the most eloquent proof of your attitude: that you are not an independent state leader, but a Lined Partyman. The real problem is what he's doing in the MNB. The fact that you have made the central bank and its foundations a fidesz place to pay instead of running the institution is one from which relatives, friends and other Fidesz partymen, without knowing the trouble of wrestling out the money that was saved on foreign exchange creditors. Obviously, he has no answer to such but other points, which is why he ran, bravely leaving his deputy in the arena. You said that in a Western democracy, it is unprecedented for a political party to criticize the President of the Central Bank and his family. In other words, you do not think that it is unprecedented that a central bank president, in addition to party politics instead of reporting, buys property, artifacts and Persian carpets for billions of money, instead of aiding those who have been harmed by the foreign currency, and uses the savings money for his relatives, but that the opposition, whose task it is to do so, should be accountable to you in the Parliament for its powers of control. I think that is unprecedented in a European democracy. Hasn't that occurred to you, Mr. President? Thank you very much. [[13.30]]
u2017-11-06-102	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to President György Matolcsy. Mr. President, please.
u2017-11-06-103	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, For months now, you have been coming up with ideas and news in newspapers for years, and you think it is true, and you are accusing the Hungarian National Bank of either its President or the President's family. The same has happened to you in the last two minutes, and you have considered it unprecedented that according to the division of labour of the management of the Hungarian National Bank, the President will keep his report and the first vice-president will answer the questions asked. You consider this to be unprecedented, since you did not see that it was the same last year, it was the same last year, it was the same before, and the same division of labour took place between the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Hungarian National Bank. You said that the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank had squandered it earlier... - which you are very proud to know that a court has not yet condemned you, since you accused the President of the Central Bank and his family of stealing the HUF 267 billion. Well, now that you're warming up, you're talking about squandering. On the other hand, you know, we all know that the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank did not only preserve the assets entrusted to them, because they could not spend it, they could only farm the profits, but the wealth is now worth 3 billion 125 million forints more, while they supported 1,200 excellent educational, scientific and research projects. Indeed, Congressman, it is unprecedented and unprecedented in the history of the European Union that a central bank president and his family are under political attack by the opposition - not professional, political. Don't be surprised if there's an answer to that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Attila Mesterházy: This is unprecedented! Orbán never did that!]]
u2017-11-06-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in return. Here you go.
u2017-11-06-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I would like to tell you that no one will be convicted in civil proceedings, and that we are not there yet as regards the level of dictatorship in Hungary. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] At the very least, they're telling someone the truth, and I can tell you that in the lawsuit that you brought against me, I won the lawsuit legally, I suppose you forgot or failed to tell me now. On the other hand, this was not a report from the central bank, but your account, and the fact that you have not been involved in any of these matters is unprecedented, does not explain why it is good for the last time, in the discussion of the report. I cannot tell you, Mr President, one person who would not have personally sat through the debate on his accounts. Even Péter Polt, who got really hot and cold, and we didn't treat him with gloves, but he could sit the whole time. In any case, I can tell you that since you never really answer the questions, I am now going to ask the other questions in writing to the bank. I hope that, as I have done so far, I will continue to receive meaningful answers, of course not with regard to your relatives, unfortunately, I think you will stop this. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, President György Matolcsy is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As far as the lawsuit is concerned, once again, you accused the President of the Central Bank of stealing HUF 267 billion - for me at the moment - and your family. You did this not in a pub after a little drink, but here, in the citadel of Hungarian democracy. [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] I think it's unprecedented. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Mr. President! I won the lawsuit!]] And I will therefore seek all remedies outside Hungary and Hungary, which makes you responsible for these statements. Again, I did, and I probably will. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now I'm scared as hell! Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, you can go home now.]] I didn't give you a personal report. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] - maybe I couldn't have done that - but as President of the Hungarian National Bank, and I told you the results that make it quite clear that the Hungarian National Bank is one of the most effective institutions of the outstanding Hungarian state. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Attila Mesterházy: Modesty is a Christian value!]]
u2017-11-06-108	Thank you, Mr President, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Prime Minister, Fidesz Zrt. As CEO, how much money do you have? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-11-06-109	Since Prime Minister is the CEO, I wouldn't wait for him. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-110	Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: That's how you mess up a good thing. It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-111	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, some issues have also been raised that need to be clarified in relation to the e-services space for healthcare. This is the system that started on 1 November, and Jobbik also agreed that it was necessary because it was a XXI. One essential aspect of health in the first century is that such a system should work and work. The problem is right here, and it's about functionality, and how people feel about it. The first question that arises and what needs to be clarified is whether the government has paid any attention to promoting this modern and otherwise important initiative among people and the profession. By the way, has the government, which spends a huge amount of money and has lost propaganda on health electronic service space been promoted? Did you get a billboard, did you get a publication, did you get any papers in the hands of civilians, ordinary people, patients, or the profession to get this system to work? Because it seems to us that people didn't know that when this was introduced, there would be 30-40 minutes of waiting in a pharmacy. The second question is how much went to this project. We saw T-Systems in the second corner, and in the first, T-Systems developed a system that was not operational, and now, in a second run, they sat on the whole system, another system that seems to be inoperative again, semi-finished, barely functioning and with a money drain. You don't seem to care about the website that means the pharmacists, the GPs, or the patients. For example, a practical question arises about what a 70-year-old or over 70-year-old general doctor does with all the burdens he now has to bear in the healthcare electronic service space. Have they been informed? Have they been instructed about this? So the issue is certainly current, Mr Secretary of State: whether there will be any sanctions if it is proven that the system is not operational [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] have informed the public of the system and have received sufficient assistance from GPs and patients [[The president's ringing again.]] use of the system? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-112	Thank you very much. I would ask my fellow Members not to go over such a time frame. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to explain a few facts that can reassure you, as 9744 providers have joined the electronic health service space. The number of e-readers issued is 82 thousand. In the last few days, since the e-recepts were now available on November 1, 579 960 e-recepts have been released. Overall, an institution that is connected to the system and distributed data on it, i.e. actively used it, 7787, and how many different events, digital data transmissions were carried out, the number of which was extremely high, 13 304 468, data transmission in electronic health service spaces. So many events have now occurred in this electronic cloud. In no way is it typical, honourable Member, that what you said would take 30-40 minutes to wait. Some providers, if their own software has not been adapted to the healthcare provider's space, may have been able to issue all the recipes here, and all the recipes can be cashed in with a driver's card and a personal ID card. In the past, regional forums and national forums were held on development for interested parties. A lot of people, hundreds of thousands of people, participated on these occasions individually or in several e-mails, received information on the most common issues. The electronic health service space has not stopped for a single moment, and there has, of course, been no interruptions in patient care. Overall, 43 133 people have already passed examinations from different aspects of data management and data security - a relatively easy exam. So we can say that you passed a good test, because 13 million data transmitted is a very, very high number, which shows that, fortunately, the transition was good. This was due to the fact that 400,000 physical data and 400,000 other data were already evaluated in the test plant during the summer. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I'll continue from here for another minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2017-11-06-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2017-11-06-115	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, it's a talkative number when you talk about the fact that some 570 thousand recipes have been triggered as about an e-recept when daily traffic in Hungary has to be a million recipes. So we can see that in the last five days we have managed to arrange up to 100,000 recipes a day, i.e. one tenth of the usual quantity in this system. This shows that this system, precisely because it wasn't properly communicated, is in chaos. Allow me to bring an opinion from the general practitioners that was written on the internal forum:, We used it for a few minutes when the system came together last week, and then we turned it off in a panic, with a little bit of a glitch. There is no way that an increased administrative burden can be done with a patient traffic of around 50 without extending the ordering time. It is quite obvious that the ageing age group, small settlements, will continue to struggle with this system. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Secretary of State, I asked what and how they advertised, how they understood with the profession and patients that it was a functioning system, because at the moment we are standing there to make a good start system, a good start [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You're gonna ruin me with all of this. [[The President shall again indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And by drowning the day-to-day operation in chaos...
u2017-11-06-116	Thank you, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-117	... and we'll have a shared responsibility for the future if we don't solve this, but most importantly, it will be your responsibility. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-118	Congressman, I have just indicated that I cannot allow time to be exceeded. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State has the opportunity to answer. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He said the word responsibility so many times in the last 10 seconds that it occurred to me that, since you're talking about responsibility, you could take responsibility for your previous activities when you were dealing with medical exports. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. László György Lukács intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Maybe he did that on a digital platform. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But regardless, it would be worth taking responsibility for that in the Jobbik faction as well. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Unlike you, we do it!]] And what I think, honourable Member, is that on Friday, perhaps a week earlier, prescriptions have been issued, I think they are absolutely natural. Don't try to find a problem where you don't have one. There's a phone number you can call all the time. [[Dr. László György Lukács: What will never be recorded!]] , a call center where they help everyone, by e-mail, by phone. Previous software should be used, do not make it look like new software should be used by anyone. Old software should be used, but not printing prescriptions, but sending them into the digital space, and a prescription certificate will also be given to patients by the end of next year so that they can replace their medicines. Honourable Congressman, Hungarian health care has taken a very important step, and I am sure that everyone's problems, which may arise, will be solved, and this will be for the benefit of Hungarian patients in the long term. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-120	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, Márta Demeter and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-11-06-121	I have a question for the Minister, but we'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-11-06-122	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-11-06-123	I accept your identity, but I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-11-06-124	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-11-06-125	Yeah.
u2017-11-06-126	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-127	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Let me begin by briefly responding to Bence Rétvári's words about the amount of the care fee last week. At the time, the Secretary of State said that the government had significantly increased the care fee and increased its amount from HUF 20,000 seven years ago to HUF 50,000. I have to fix this slide right now. In 2011, the basic amount of the care fee was HUF 29 500 - but not HUF 20,000, 29 500 - and in 2017 it was HUF 31 thousand in the budget. Both are gross amounts, so we managed to raise the amount by HUF 1500 gross over seven years; by HUF 1500. It is true that from 2014 a new category has been introduced, and the amount of the special care fee is HUF 50 000 net, but this amount is only paid to the fifth of the 54,000 people participating in the care fee, and since 2014 the amount of the care fee has been reduced by more than HUF 1 billion, and nearly 10 thousand less will receive the care fee. So you're not spending any more, but you're spending less and less on home care. According to a government-ordered research, the average monthly income of nurses is HUF 40,000. Two thirds of those who receive care are shorthanded, half of whom are heavily deprived, three-quarters of whom are women, so home care is also a job typically done by women and not paid. According to the LMP, care and care needs to be provided to our fellow human beings, preferably at home. We recommend that, like the employment relationship of a foster parent, nursing work should be considered as a full-fledged employment relationship, thereby providing a secure relationship and at least a minimum wage. Does the government support this proposal?
u2017-11-06-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-06-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Currently, those who care for their relatives at home have different positive legal consequences, other than nursing fees. For example, they become eligible for health care services, or the period of payment of the care allowance is to be calculated as the period of service when a person reaches the retirement age. So today, there are positives about this. What I have referred to, honourable Member, is that the basic amount of the care fee was indeed twenty-thousand forints when we took over the responsibility of government, and in all respects, we have raised both the basic and the increased care fee during the Fidesz-KDNP administration period, some of which are 10 percent, which is 27 percent. If someone really cared for a relative with a serious illness in the area of 2010, he received 38 350 forints for this, and 58 680 forints from 1 January, that is, 58 thousand forints instead of 38 thousand forints. I will not say, of course, that this HUF 58,000 would suffice, and this should not be raised further. I agree with you that this should be further increased, but compared to previous governments, which have reached HUF 38,000 in 20 years, we have been able to make an increase in the last few years that has created a priority care category, and 31 126 people in the most difficult situation will now receive this HUF 58 680 from 1 January. That's a result I think can be appreciated. I am not saying that this work does not need to continue, that is what we will try to do even in the home care sector, but I could mention the area of home care, which was a similar problem, but we managed to increase the number of people who have participated in it by 40 percent, while increasing the number of people who work in it by 100 percent, in order to improve the quality of care. The government is trying to take action in all areas, but of course there is still room to raise these amounts in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-130	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-131	Mr State Secretary, I repeat once again, what is the priority care fee has indeed made progress there, but this affects only 20 percent of those who are concerned, with the remaining 80 percent, the amount of this increase is only HUF 1500 between 2011 and 2017. So it was increased from HUF 29,500 to HUF 31,000, which means HUF 1500 in seven years. This is a very, very small increase, Mr Secretary of State, and 80 percent of them are concerned. What can I do? Secretary of State, can you tell me? Please answer me, do you have the possibility in rejoinder that the gross amount of 31,000 forints, the amount of money these people will receive, how much would you have to pay for this job? Please calculate, Mr. Secretary, and answer whether this can be done.
u2017-11-06-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me recalibrate it here for the numbers, because it didn't say real data: by far it wasn't 80 percent for the basic care fee, there are 26 thousand people at the basic care fee, there are 14 thousand persons raised and 13 126 persons, as I mentioned earlier, at a special care fee. [[13.50]] These different fees depend on the extent to which a person needs to do in home care, so to what extent the health damage he needs to be treated with. But as you can see, the more intense, the more stressful they are, because this is a great burden both physically and mentally and financially for the family, the greater the rise. The highest load had the highest rise: from 38 thousand to 58 thousand forints, but, as I said earlier, the government will work to continue to increase these items as opposed to its predecessors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-134	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Jenő Manninger, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:, How has the minimum wage and employment changed since 2010? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary for his response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Jenő Manninger: Yes, thank you very much.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-135	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Today, international public and expert advice knows and acknowledges that all our economic indicators have improved significantly since the 2010 government change. The employment rate and the minimum wage are no exceptions. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The wrong economic policy of left-wing governments was well demonstrated by the fact that while unemployment was 5.5 percent in Hungary at the beginning of their governance, the Medgyessy and Gyurcsány governments raised this to 7.7 percent before the economic crisis took effect in autumn 2008. After the disastrous governance of the socialists, Fidesz announced in 2010 a new economic policy aimed at recovering the country and creating a million new jobs in ten years. Then the fallen left, but even the Jobbik said it would be impossible to do so. The wood lickers were wrong. Thanks to the successful alliance and work of the government and the people, we were able to continue our journey beyond 2014 and, as a result, more than 700 thousand new jobs have now been created. The average number of employees increased over the same period to over 4 million 450 thousand, which has not been seen since the change of regime. Unemployment has also fallen below the European average. Last year, the main point of the agreement between employees, employers and the government at the permanent consultation forum of the competition sphere and the government is to increase the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. After all, raising wages is indeed one of the most important issues now. I therefore ask the Secretary of State how the implementation of this is progressing. Thank you for your answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-06-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, since the change in government in 2010, our economic indicators have improved significantly. Employment and the minimum wage, real wages, are no exceptions. In 2010, Fidesz announced its new economic policy after the disastrous governance of the socialists, which set itself the goal of recovering the country and a major employment expansion in ten years. The implementation of this programme is on the right track, because if we look at employment policy results and employment results alone, the number of people employed has increased by over 740,000; we can safely say that the number of people living in work has increased by 740,000. In the agreement concluded at the end of last year at the permanent consultation forum of the competition sphere and the government, we decided to increase the minimum wage by 15% in 2017, by 12% in 2018, and to reduce the social contribution tax from 27 per cent to 19,5 per cent in two years, as well as to reduce the corporate tax rate to 9 per cent in a uniform manner. This is a significant relief for employers, employers. Thus, on the basis of last November's wage agreement, it can be said that by 2018, the minimum wage will increase by 88 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 102 percent, which is outstanding in the European Union. Thanks to this agreement, net wages and real wages have also increased significantly; from 2010 to 2016, real national wages have increased by around 24 per cent, and the results of the last eight months show that we have managed to achieve a further increase in real wages of slightly over 10 per cent. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-11-06-139	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. As a Member of Parliament, I am also a member of the General Assembly of the Council of Europe, and at the last meeting an OECD study was presented where it was analysed how the differences in earnings have increased in Europe over the past 20-30 years; unfortunately, the difference between the top and the bottom ten percent has increased from 7 to 10 times. Three countries were mentioned as an exception, one was Hungary. And it was also acknowledged in this expert material that the changes that took place after 2010 resulted in Hungary not being included in this negative ranking. Indeed, it can be said that raising the minimum wage has also helped this. You have also mentioned that net income has also increased significantly in the past period, from 130 thousand forints to 200,000 forints. I am confident that we will continue on this path, and the minimum wage that the government can help with this... - it will also affect the increase in earnings averages and the elimination of differences. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank you for mentioning this inquiry and, in fact, it is not only within the walls of the House that, in response to a question, the wage differences have not increased, but have decreased, which is interesting and can be determined geographically. After all, the difference between low wages and wages in more developed areas has decreased statistically significantly and in a demonstrable manner, which is supported by the OECD study. I would also like to mention, in summary, that, in the context of real wage growth, when comparing real wage growth between 2010 and 2016, with real wage growth in the last eight months, this represents a slightly more than 36 percent real wage increase. This proves that the catch-up that we have repeatedly said and statistics show that EU wages [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Hungarian wage is closing up, and a significant step forward is also in the area of wage catch-up. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Why are they afraid? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Attila Mesterházy: Thank you, yes.]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-06-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government is always talking about a huge success story when it comes to settlement bonds in this House or any other request, but in recent days the government has presented a new strategy here, since they do not answer written questions. So far, they've been talking nonsense, or they've been avoiding answering questions, but they've been rejecting written questions by their representatives. Eight of my 12 questions were rejected by the Speaker at the request of Mr András Tállai, so I would like to ask András Tállai now to tell me why the following questions do not affect government authority. My first question was why, following the fall of market interest until December 2014, the government did not change the level of 2 per cent of settlement government bonds in law. I think this concerns government competence, because it is a budgetary issue. Secondly, what are the large-scale investments in Hungary that were created by the bond scheme. I think this concerns government authority, because it is about investment in Hungary - it also concerns the Hungarian economy, the national economy and the budget. Third, why Hungary, like other countries, has not made investment or real estate purchases subject to the possibility of buying settlement bonds - this is also a matter of government authority. I could also ask how the government is monitoring the economic activity of the holders of the settlement policy, or when they intend to restart the sale of the bonds, since the legal framework enabling it has not been abolished. [[14.00]] So these were the questions that all concerned government powers, but you didn't want to answer them. Why are you hiding, what you're afraid of, why don't you answer your representatives' questions? Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-144	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-11-06-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, allow me first to welcome the kind guests of Hejőpápi, who are in the gallery, with great respect and affection. From now on, I would like to turn to the question of Congressman. Honourable Congressman, You know very well that the government is not responsible for the sale of the settlement government bond, but for the Committee of Parliament, the Economic Committee of Parliament. The Parliament's Economic Committee has established this system of sales, raising capital, raising funds, and the Economic Committee is essentially responsible for all the questions that you would otherwise like the Government to answer. In addition to its specific question: yes, the system has been amended, since this system essentially ceased by 31 March 2017. It was a transitional system, maybe you don't understand, and you know how to leave the budget here without funding. They had no idea in 2010 how the budget deficit should be financed. A new government came, and you did take this opportunity. The possibility that is already well known at international level, since Austria, Cyprus, the United Kingdom, Greece, Malta and Portugal apply it. And it is also true that, like Hungary, there is no real estate entry in the system, because for example, Austria does not need it, the UK does not need it, or Malta does not need to involve real estate or any other investment. So I think that the question of what we're hiding, we're not hiding anything, you get all the questions, and you've already got the answer. There's no secret in this system. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-146	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-11-06-147	Let me greet the guests of Hejõpápi with due respect. Secretary of State, you still haven't answered my question. If I had the answers, I wouldn't have had the answer to rejecting eight out of 12 of the Speaker's questions. If it's that simple, then answer my questions, I'm happy to write with you, I have time. The second is that it is generally linked to investments or real estate at international level. You said here you mentioned who knew what to do. Look, what I can tell you is that you are quite certain of something, namely that you are stealing public money to get it to your friends, because with this program the Hungarian state suffered damage worth HUF 13 billion, but your friendly companies have benefited from it, because they have gained a very large income and profit in the order of HUF 180 billion. So that's what you do, how public money becomes private money, to quote President Matolcsy, to lose his public money in your pocket. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-149	In his surprising rejoinder, the congressman struck a rather subpar tone to steal the public money. Honourable Congressman, Whose groupmate was in prison for stealing public money? Your fellow factions were sitting. Then what are you talking about? What kind of public money theft are you talking about? What does that mean, the state's been damaged? There's no damage to the state. Forints 575 billion were involved under market interest. So it cost the state less. This programme was launched in 2013, and it was a very good programme from a market point of view, from a source point of view. Yes, due to a change in market conditions in 2017, after the government can now finance the state budget from the market, which you could not, by the way, because they have bankrupted the country, the current government can now solve this without a bond scheme. There's no secret, there's nothing the government has to hide in this bond program. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-150	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[György Szilágyi: Yes, I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that Viktor Orbán's environment has created dream careers, it seems that his immediate environment is composed of a multitude of geniuses of Viktor Orbán, and I am not here to talk about Lőrinc Mészáros, who has become an economic genius from a simple gasman, and is now earning HUF 11 million an hour, but I would ask you about another economic genius: István Tiborcz, the husband of the daughter of Viktor Orbán. István Tiborcz, son-in-law of Viktor Orbán, Ráhel Orbán's husband reached the top, because he was not so rich before, he became one of the richest people in Hungary in a few years, and the news a few days ago that he bought a property, a palace in one of the most expensive parts of Budapest, the XII. in the district, in Kútvölgy, for about 400 million forints, and then they say it needs to be renewed. So the sentences of Orbán Rachel, I suppose, everyone remembers just two years ago, said: "My husband and I have our own family, we stand on our own feet, we thrive on our own strength, we live our own lives. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. How many Hungarian families are there - I ask the question - where the parents' savings, say, HUF 740,000, can't help the child on the basis of Viktor Orbán's wealth return, and this child is one of the richest people in Hungary without any help in a few years, because he was on his own feet? In 2009, István Tiborcz was only able to account for HUF 8.4 million as revenue after his companies.In 2010, when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was already the Prime Minister, he was able to account for 686 million, 2760 million in 2011, and 3000 million in 2012. Gentlemen. Viktor Orbán has nothing to do with this? The question is... - and there's a lot of business going on with this guy, and there's a line of business that his name is connected to, from buying castles to tourism to buying hotels. Viktor Orbán seems to be using the Prime Minister's position to make his own family rich. Is this all right, Mr. Secretary? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-152	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-11-06-153	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I think that the forthcoming election campaign does not empower any of our fellow Members to drag the family members of our fellow Members, who are not, by the way, public figures, to the stage of politics. I would like most definitely to reject this style and tone on behalf of all my fellow Members, in the name of those who belong to the governing parties and of those who do not; and in the name of all public actors, that at any time and on behalf of any of their relatives, they will be reprimanded. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] Congressman, I would like to finish my sentence, if the better Members allow me. Congressman, fortunately, there are many successful entrepreneurs in this country. This is the country's success. The country is successful because entrepreneurs are successful. Which successful entrepreneur did you just refer to? The one who's the prime minister's son-in-law. Would you have said your name if he hadn't been Prime Minister's son-in-law? Of course not, because then we should have listed the names of tens of thousands of successful entrepreneurs today. What hurts you, Congressman? That you failed? Does that hurt you? That you failed? That you failed? Does that hurt you, Congressman? This is nothing more than simply envy, and I would like to ask you, Member, who has not been known to be such a person, to leave family members out of politics and to leave them out of politics. Those who walk with open eyes in this country know perfectly well that István Tiborcz's family, parents, brother, and he himself were financially respected and successful people before marriage. They did not need the support of Viktor Orbán, and they did not need anyone's support. They were and remained independent, and István Tiborcz and his wife said this several times. It is not clear to me why family members, the child of a politician, a prime minister, or the son-in-law should be involved in political debates. Is this your political agenda? Will this be good for the country? Are you politicizing that this is your political offer to voters? Is this what makes Hungary better what you just represented? [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-154	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. [[14.10]]
u2017-11-06-155	I know, Minister, we know your perception, the arrogant notion that everyone is worth as much as they have. That's what you said. What matters to you in a man's judgment is how much money you have. No, that's not why we're bringing István Tiborcz here. For example, Kecskemét won a tender that was written in full, and won a tender of HUF 704 million, so that only he was able to meet the conditions in Hungary. We are saying this because when you start buying castles, for example, you are creating laws that allow you to write down the cost of clichés from 2017 to HUF 30 billion from the corporate tax base. We say that because when you buy the port in Keszthely, you advertise a shop shutter on Sunday, yet what do you do afterwards: with a government decree in the ports, anyone could be open on Sunday, of course. That's because you're helping these people politically. [[Jenő Manninger: There is no shop there!]] These people don't live on the market, they get their fortunes with your help. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-06-156	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder. Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-157	Congressman, it's a shame to lie so much, because that doesn't mean they're gonna vote for you. [[Dr. Pál Völner: In fact!]] In itself, this flood of lies, which you have just told, with some people and cases here, will not be the basis for anyone to vote for you, Congressman. [[Tibor Bana: Disappoint! You just don't know!]] First of all, I'm asking you to respect the privacy of others. Obviously, it's not my job to talk about legal matters, but they don't put public figures here on a regular basis, they don't put public contractors here on a regular basis, just because they have anything to do with Fidesz. I do not think that this is a programme that should be supported in any form. As far as competition is concerned, Mr President, all the cases you raised, all the cases relating to the European Union proposals, have been investigated by the European Commission, the various law enforcement agencies. No evidence of foul play was found. There's no investigation, there's no investigation, there's no investigation that's gonna bring anyone down. You, Congressman, are only messing with István Tiborcz because he is the Prime Minister's son-in-law. They don't have any other political agendas, just this personal thing. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-158	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. How will the national ice prevention system planned to be launched in 2018 work? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[László Földi: Yes, I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Last spring, I asked the wallet if the government had the opportunity to build a national hail control system. On behalf of Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr György Czerván informed me that, in addition to agricultural compensation and agricultural insurance premiums, an increasing emphasis is placed on risk prevention, preventing hail damage can provide one of the highest added value for the agricultural sector and society. For this reason, the Ministry of Agriculture pays particular attention to the development of hail relief into a national system. According to the plans at that time, five dispatch centres were planned with the country's position in five regions. By integrating soil generators operated in South Hungary and using newly acquired tools, a national system with about a thousand soil generators can be created. It is estimated that this will be feasible within a year or two and that the damage to the producers will be reduced by about 40 to 70 percent. Dear Secretary of State, Recent extreme weather has resulted in an increase in occasional sudden precipitation and a particular problem when this precipitation causes destruction in the form of ice. That is why I was very pleased to hear from the news that the national ice prevention system could be launched in 2018. In this connection, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: how and from what source do you plan to operate the national ice prevention system? How and to what extent does this help producers? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-06-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-11-06-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, Indeed, as a result of climate change, the frequency of extreme weather events and their negative economic, environmental and social impacts are increasing. We could say that agriculture is a very exposed sector. Therefore, safety is always the most difficult issue, which means product safety, how we can plan, how we can be predictable of the return on work that we use for agriculture. As a result, there is a growing emphasis on risk prevention. Ice rain can occur anywhere in the country, but effective defense has so far only worked in South Transdanubia. Based on this, the agricultural portfolio supported the expansion of soil generator ice damage prevention to national levels. The National Chamber of Agriculture undertook to build the national system and then operate it, to which the Ministry of Agriculture provides all the assistance. With the creation of three new logistics centres, the National Chamber of Agriculture will establish the system by dividing the country into four regions. By integrating the South-Transdanubian 141 unit and the newly installed soil generators, a national system with nearly a thousand generators can be created. The investment amounts to HUF 1.8 billion and can receive 100% support from the rural development programme. During construction, nearly 200 automatic soil generators are purchased, the operation of which does not require personnel. Traditional manual equipment will be operated by personnel who will also make uploads and minor repairs of the devices with the active substance. Staff recruitment is currently under way. Following a positive assessment of NAK's investment proposal, the establishment of the national system and the conclusion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Chamber agreement necessary for its operation can be accelerated. The planned operating cost is close to HUF 1.5 billion a year, and basically the Compensation Fund is available to finance it. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-162	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-11-06-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I also asked the question because in the region from which I come to Parliament, fruit and grape production and, of course, arable crops are also a key issue. Over the last decade and a half, many orchards have been established, for example, many new, many young farmers have entered production. In order to keep young farmers in the system so that their livelihoods are safe, it is a key issue that we solve this problem, because in recent years, too, our region has suffered very serious ice damage, and because of this, orchards have been destroyed. They had to be replanted. So I have great confidence in the system that the FM and the Chamber of Agriculture have worked out. Obviously, this will be very good for farmers all over the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You're absolutely right, my dear fellow Member. I would also like to say that, with the introduction of the scheme, producers' hail prices are falling, which means that a significantly smaller compensation allowance for ice damage will have to be paid in the future. Furthermore, it is a great help that the system also provides solutions to damage of less than 30 per cent not managed by the Fund. Therefore, producers do not have to suffer any damage of less than 30%, which is important, and we all know that, because in a borrowing economy, each income generated is needed to function effectively. One of the most important added values is that the introduction and operation of national ice damage prevention does not represent a single HUF cost for producers as an additional burden. At the same time, given the benefits of ice damage prevention not only for farmers, but also for businesses in other sectors, public wealth organisations, but also for a wide range of populations, it was also appropriate to provide voluntary contributions for the company in a way supported by the State. We hope that with this national investment, we can increase the safety and efficiency of production for farmers in the future. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Józsa: That's right, it's a good system.]]
u2017-11-06-166	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why does the government turn their backs on single - parent families? It's an address. [[Dr. István Józsa to Dr. István Nagy: Just think of the drivers.]] Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congresswoman indicates that she accepts Secretary Bence Rétvári as a reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[14.20]]
u2017-11-06-167	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, young families, especially single-parent families, are severely disadvantaged despite the government policy set up as family-friendly. Half a million children are raised today by a single parent, and if the trend so far continues, unfortunately, every third minor child will be raised in a single parent family. If these families do not receive immediate assistance, their situation will continue to deteriorate. All the data we have shows that there's a big problem. Two out of three single - parent families live in poverty and deprivation. The government is used to express a high rate of family support, but it is already hiding the proportion of support for families in need. At present, the support system almost completely ignores the extra burden of single parents. You will receive only 1,500 HUF more family allowances, which has not grown since 2008, Mr. Secretary! In vain, the government says that it supports families on a needy basis if the income threshold is set without the family being considered in need even at a minimum wage. We believe that family policy is needed that takes into account the special needs of families in different situations. Single - parent families today suffer a very serious financial disadvantage, so we would raise the family allowance to HUF 20,000, extend the benefits to large families and revise the system of maintenance fees. There is no longer a condition that a State that has failed to recover maintenance fees grants charity to families. We will launch a targeted labour market programme, a supported babysitter service, and we will help with housing problems. So I ask Mr Secretary of State why they do not support these proposals, why they do not take such measures, and why they turn their backs on single - parent families. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-11-06-168	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2017-11-06-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The government's most important objective was to strengthen and help families, which is why it took much more measures than its predecessors in the previous era, and I am not even referring to what the socialists had taken away from families, but what was generally established in Hungary, because while the support of families in 2010 did not reach HUF 1000 billion, it will rise around HUF 2000 billion by 2018, so this is a very large increase. In the family allowance, he obviously forgot that if there are more children, it could mean HUF 3,000, four children HUF 4,000 or more. And it is also important to say to single - parent families that children of single parents should be given priority in the case of nursery and mini-cradle admissions. The government also decided last year to give 500 million forints to the Single Parent Club in order to create a centre and a national network outside the centre, which is dedicated to helping single parents. In the Erzsébet camps, we also started a special discount camping facility for single-parent families, precisely because we know that it is more difficult to solve babysitting both in the nursery and mini-cradle and in the summer camp in a single-parent family. That's why we set up a special camp for the break, and we'll give you a discount for the recording at the nursery and the mini-cradle. It is also important to say that single-parent families also benefit from more favourable treatment and benefit from regular child protection benefits. It is also important that, in recent times, the government has made countless decisions, such as the remission of the mother's student loan, which can also be very positive for single - parent families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2017-11-06-171	You know, Mr. State Secretary, the way you relate to single-parent families tells you everything about what you think about Hungarian families. And I would like to remind you that you may have forgotten this, but the Hungarian families have not forgotten it, as you have said: the couples would divorce on paper in the hope of higher support. Secretary of State, a year ago you said that Hungarian families would be profiteers. You punish single-parent families because they consider Hungarian families beneficial. You have such a devastating opinion about Hungarian families! We also reject this on behalf of Hungarian families! And the steps you've mentioned are due to LMP, because we've also suggested that we promote nursery preference and the creation of family centers on a Scandinavian model. Otherwise, we need these measures, but they are not enough, at least that much is needed to ensure that the child not only gets into the nursery, but also receives adequate financial support, support to overcome labour market and child care difficulties. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That is to say, keep the nursery open before the parent starts his shift. [[The president's ringing again.]] and you can pick up the child after overtime, but you have to raise the wages of the workers and the overtime. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-172	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and And I'm rejecting your cutting, which you're throwing at the government's head here. We tried to help every family. We have laid down the importance of supporting families in the Fundamental Law, and the family is also created by the family, as the Fundamental Law states. So all children are the same to us. A child can't help having an only child or many siblings, being cared for by a parent or by more parents. It doesn't matter to the government. The important thing is to support the children. Those who are in a difficult situation because they have many brothers and sisters, and this results in more costs for the family or are provided by just one parent, have special support. That's what I've been listing for you for the last two minutes. However, I also consider it important that the benefits of families are increased year after year. There has not been a year since the start of Fidesz-KDNP governance when family support was not extended. The next year will continue to expand, the two-children's discount will continue to increase to HUF 35 000, and if Fidesz-KDNP receives the possibility of steering after that, we will continue to increase it to HUF 40,000. Now 1-1 million forints can also be written off from the loan debt for children. I think, in addition to family tax incentives, we have given families a lot of other benefits that can make them feel that the government considers their work, activities within the family, work the most important. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-06-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bene Ildikó, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: - How have wages changed in health care since 2010? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts Mr Bence Rétvári as a reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-06-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, we had to face the fact that more than HUF 400 billion was withdrawn from health care and that more than 5,000 workers left the health field or took up work abroad. Fidesz-KDNP is committed to improving the situation of both patients and healthcare workers. Since 2010, the civilian government has been constantly replacing resources taken from health care during the governing of socialists and liberals. So far, we have spent over 500 billion forints on development. Allow me to note here that in addition to this 500 billion, Budapest's largest health development is also beginning. In addition to developments, we have radically reduced the debt of hospitals, halving the number of people on the waiting list. Fidesz-KDNP has always prioritised and addressed the human resources issue of healthcare workers. It is pleased that in recent years the country's economic capacity has given us the opportunity to improve the financial situation of health workers. In 2012 and 2013, about 95 thousand healthcare workers received wage increases in two steps. A total of HUF 75.7 billion in additional payments were made to healthcare providers in the two years related to wage development in the health sector. As of 1 July 2015, the possibility of releasing the freezing of mobile wages of healthcare workers has been created, thereby ensuring that the basic wage for the 2012 and 2013 wage increases are adjusted to the basic wage. Also last year, as a result of wage negotiations aimed at further improving the income situation of health workers, an agreement was reached on the timing and extent of wage development as a result of negotiations with professional chambers in the framework of sectoral strike negotiations. I ask Mr Secretary of State how wages in health have changed since 2010, how much more do health workers earn today than in 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-11-06-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We can say that there has been a long-awaited shift in health wages in Hungary for decades. We have known for a very long time that in health care they earn far less than they would be due on the basis of their work and responsibility that they wear every day, but we still had to wait for the Fidesz-KDNP government to make a noticeable, large-scale medical and professional wage increase in Hungary. A specialist with a 7-9-year legal relationship could expect a basic salary of HUF 156 thousand in the year 2010, if I miss the mobile wage elements - on duty, overtime and the like - his earnings were HUF 280 thousand. [[14.30]] The same now, after the wage increase, the basic salary is now HUF 469 thousand, and if I add the various mobile wage elements, overtime and on-call fees, this may rise to HUF 796 thousand. In the case of another specialist who has been on the field for 19-21 years, so he has done two decades of work, his basic salary in 2010 was 197 thousand forints, and his earnings were 364 thousand forints with overtime and allowances. So that was his gross salary with all the allowances. This increases now, to HUF 510 520 of basic salary, and if an average is calculated with the various overtimes and on-calls, then the gross income included in the basic wage plus these mobile wage elements could be HUF 855 thousand. These are already actions that are noticeably larger than the previous ones. In the case of doctors, this means an increase of 207 thousand HUF during the autumn of last year and this year. The last medical wages rose on November 1, and the doctors will see this first in December's salary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-178	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2017-11-06-179	Thank you very much, and thank you very much for your answer, Mr Secretary of State. The salary increase will take place in four steps between 2016 and 2019. I think the most important thing - because we have heard the numbers, and they have brought a very significant wage increase fortunately and they are projected for the coming years - is that we are talking about a multi-annual payroll programme. This can bring stability that will ensure that our doctors and nurses work in Hungary. I am very pleased to say that health care workers can count on the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-11-06-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, one trust must be rebuilt, since a month's wages were taken before 2010 and 6,000 health workers were laid off. There was also a major crisis of confidence here, which led to the massive emigration that had not stopped until the end of 2012-13 in the case of doctors, and, fortunately, since then, the exodus of doctors has been decreasing. But you also referred to the salary increase of the workers. The HUF 82 billion budget surplus that is included in this year's budget for wage increases, affects doctors, hospital pharmacists as well as health professionals and nurses. In their case, they had a basic salary of HUF 106 thousand in 2010, which amounted to HUF 172 thousand, along with the various overtimes. This is now rising to a basic salary of HUF 226 thousand, and the gross value of the earnings, including overtime, can increase to an average of HUF 340 thousand in addition to the performance that nurses provide in patient care as a truly superhuman achievement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 14:33. We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, The political debate on the necessary steps for foreign exchange credit victims, initiated by Bernadett Szél and his fellow Members, will follow. The initiative to initiate the political debate V/17955. I've been handed over to you. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr László Földi to explain the course of the political debate.
u2017-11-06-183	Dear Parliament, First, a statement by the representative of the Government shall be made for a period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes. Then the first independent Member may speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-11-06-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate shall be included in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr István Szávay, notary, to explain each time frame.
u2017-11-06-185	Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that Jobbik and the LMP Group have initiated a doubling of their timeframe, so the time frame is divided as follows. The Fidesz Group has 82 minutes, 45 minutes for the MSZP Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 50 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-11-06-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice.
u2017-11-06-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The foreign exchange credit crisis is a shameful legacy of the socioliberal governments of the 2000s, which the country has not fully recovered from until today. The civilian government is left with the management of the foreign exchange loan crisis, so Fidesz-KDNP has taken the steps to assist foreign exchange lenders, resulting in a 25-30 percent decrease in repayments and a HUF 1000 billion reduction in the burden on families. In the interests of clarity, please allow me to sum up the state measures taken and their backgrounds to help retail lenders in recent years in order to launch today's debate. One characteristic of residential property is that it is necessary to completely renovate or build a new one per lifetime. Based on the country's population and average family size, Hungary would need an average of 40,000 new homes per year. For the first time since the 1980s, it was possible to achieve a steady increase in housing construction from 1999 onwards. We remember the Orbán government's actions. The principal instrument was the interest-supported HUF-based housing loan facility. Following the 2002 parliamentary elections, the interest rate subsidy on HUF-based housing loans was abolished during the Social Liberal Government on budgetary grounds. However, people's own desire for home has survived. Forint-based housing loans could not be maintained without a public interest subsidy, since the base rate of HUF 8-12 per cent at that time was associated with a market rate of 14-18 per cent. Unable to reduce inflation and the high base rate shifted households towards lower interest rate foreign exchange loans due to the significant interest rate differential. These housing loans were accompanied by a more moderate interest repayment burden. This moderate interest rate burden was offset by the outstanding capital debt and the ever-changing exchange rate. However, in the first period, the issue of exchange rate risk was completely outdated, with a stable level of foreign currencies and a significantly lower interest rate than forints of importance for debtors. In essence, a classic bubble phenomenon has been observed in the markets. On the side of both debtors and creditors, the level of risks was almost completely ignored in the hope of achieving profit. In most of the borrower households, the only criterion on which their decision was taken was the size of the monthly instalment, and the lending banks assessed and decided on a real estate hedge basis instead of examining the future debtor's life situation and longer-term payment options. In addition, in the assessment of the real estate collateral, the banks also accepted real estate which did not have a chance of being sold on the market in the future. As a result of the financial and economic crisis in 2008, the Hungarian forint was significantly devalued, while the euro and the Swiss franc were greatly appreciated. This year, 90 percent of new residential borrowings were foreign exchange-based. However, since Hungarian banking supervision has not taken action, foreign exchange lending has become dangerous for the entire Hungarian economy between 2006 and 2009. [[14.40]] Households' foreign currency loans increased from HUF 2000 billion at the end of 2006 to HUF 6000 billion at the beginning of 2009. Even after the outbreak of the 2008 financial crisis, the Hungarian population's foreign currency loan portfolio increased by HUF 1000 billion. At that time, however, the process that became the main problem of Hungarian debtors was already taking place. In addition to the forint, the euro has also weakened significantly compared to the Swiss franc. During the crisis, the Swiss franc became a reserve currency, in other words a refugee currency, and as a result it increased by about 25 percent against the euro. At the same time, the forint weakened about 10 percent against the euro. On this basis, while a Swiss franc was worth approximately 150 HUF in early 2008, it reached 200 HUF in 2010 and 250 HUF in 2012. Not so outlier, but it was also spectacular to weaken the forint against the euro. While one euro was worth approximately 250 HUF in early 2008, it was 280 in 2010 and 300 in 2012. The fast weakening forint exchange rate, especially against Swiss francs, has drastically reduced the situation of indebted households. In the case of banks, the quality of mortgage portfolios has deteriorated and the share of non-performing loans in the banking system has steadily increased. At the same time, Hungary's country risk share increased significantly as a result of the 2008 crisis. At the same time, the refinancing costs of domestic banks increased. However, the increase in refinancing costs has been halted by the fact that the European Central Bank and the Swiss central bank have started to reduce interest rates. However, since neither the Hungarian financial supervision nor the domestic legislation imposed any restrictions on this, the Hungarian banks began to raise interest rates, often abusing the unilateral right of amendment granted to them by law. The unilateral right to amend a contract was used to increase profits against its original function. In addition, there were other reasons for the domestic spread of foreign currency lending. For example, competition between banks becoming increasingly risk-based, increasing information asymmetry between creditors and debtors, the issue of the intermediary network, weaknesses in financial culture or the lack of introduction of interest rates on loans linked to the reference rate. By the early 2010s, the retail foreign exchange loan pool had already become an obstacle to economic development through its size and associated risk factors. This total social burden is illustrated by only a few figures: at the end of June 2014, our retail foreign exchange loan portfolio still exceeded HUF 4147 billion, of which EUR 3607 billion were mortgage loans. At the end of the first half of 2014, there were a total of approximately 872 thousand consumer foreign exchange loans. The Hungarian legislator therefore had to take action for a number of reasons. Foreign exchange-based retail lending was finally prohibited in 2010. Foreign exchange-based consumer mortgage agreements were converted into forints in 2014 and other non-mortgage consumer loans were converted into forints in 2015. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: It was reported by a civil law unit decision No. The Parliament then passed the law on the legal unit, which was published on 18 July 2014, just one month after the adoption of the resolution of the legal unit. The Curia's legal unit decision is binding solely on the courts, but by virtue of the general nature of the principles of law set out therein it affects a wide range of legal relationships, and it was therefore necessary to legislate in order to enforce the requirements arising therefrom. By virtue of the law of a legal unit, the rules of the Curia's legal unit decision became applicable to all foreign exchange taxpayers without a separate legal action. This has, above all, prevented hundreds of thousands of lawsuits from being opened with regard to the nullity of the exchange rate gap. The law on the unity of laws established a rebuttable presumption against the unfairness of contractual clauses containing the possibility of unilateral amendment of a contract. The law allowed financial institutions to prove the integrity of their clauses on the unilateral right to change contracts in an accelerated court procedure. It specifically provided for the treatment of pending foreign exchange credit lawsuits. The lawsuits for which a contractual clause relating to the exchange rate gap or the possibility of unilateral amendment of a contract had to be suspended, in whole or in part. These are typically the finding lawsuits. It also provided for the suspension of judicial executions and the non-execution sale of mortgage assets. Legal initiatives to establish and destroy the fundamental law of the Law on the Unification of Laws of the Constitutional Court are set out in Article 34/2014 of the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court. The President The accounting of past consumer overpayments related to unfair contractual clauses was provided for in a separate Act, the Accounting Act. According to the provisions of the Accounting Act, the consumer's claim shall be calculated as if the overpayments had been made at the time of the overpayment in the manner specified in the regulation of the President of the MNB during the period of existence of the consumer loan contract. The legislator had a choice of several accounting methodologies. Of these, so-called early repayment accounts are the most favourable for the consumer. The main point is that the overpayment in favour of the debtor must be recognised as a prepayment of the capital debt. By way of early repayment, the profit from the earlier favourable exchange rate is reflected in the debtors. Where the debt is denominated in foreign currency, the overpayment shall also be converted into that currency. In addition, the overpayment had to be accounted for at the rate at which the financial institution converted the repayment, i.e. interest and capital repayment related to the overpayment. With regard to the revision of the accounts, the law stated that if the consumer disputes the provisions of the accounts of the financial institution, he may lodge a first complaint with the financial institution. Following this failure, you can contact the Financial Reconciliation Board. It may also initiate a civil-non-court procedure for a decision by the Financial Reconciliation Board to terminate the procedure or for a decision to establish the correct settlement. According to the mid-term report of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, the entire settlement process involved some 3.6 million consumer loans, during which about HUF 764 billion of consumer claims were reimbursed to those entitled to do so. The problems of foreign exchange lenders drew attention to the legal regulation of consumer credit and to the shortcomings of regulation. The primary objective of the 2014 amendment to the law on credit to consumers is to ensure that banks provide credit to consumers under fair and transparent contractual conditions. To this end, the law sets out, inter alia, new transparent rules for unilateral modification of consumer credit contracts. These new provisions cover both a unilateral increase in interest, fees and costs. It details and makes the obligation to provide information to the creditor prior to the conclusion of the contract more effective. The main aim of this is to enable the consumer to make an informed decision on borrowing and the risks involved. It provides the consumer with a free right of termination after the end of the interest period. Its aim is to facilitate bank switching and competition between banks. It maximises the rate of interest on late payment, preventing creditors from applying loan sharks-like interest rates to debtors already facing difficulties in payment. The creditor's obligation to provide information before the contract is extended to the consumer guarantor and to the parties to the contract. The law primarily seeks to protect consumers who lack information at a higher level than before. In 2014, the Forinting Act increased the scope of legal measures to protect the debtors of consumer credit. The purpose of the law was twofold: to eliminate the vulnerability of consumers in debt in foreign currency due to exchange rate changes and to ensure the stability of the financial institution by eliminating exchange rate risk. [[14.50]] As a result, the currency ex lege of debts previously held in foreign currency was changed. As with previous samples, the Forinting Act does not simply require the conversion of outstanding foreign currency debt into HUF. In addition to determining the exchange rate, it is at least as important to determine the initial interest rate on loans converted to HUF. The primary objective of the Act was therefore to eliminate the burden of exchange rate risk for contracts that were otherwise valid for the future by setting an exchange rate from the date of entry into force. In the case of mortgage-backed foreign exchange and foreign currency-based loans, the law abolished the exchange rate risk for the future by requiring the conversion of the debt into HUF. In determining the exchange rate, it was not possible to ignore that the Curia's decision as a legal unit concluded that the risk of exchange rate was borne by the lender in the case of the current contracts. The conversion of the debt into HUF concerned all outstanding foreign exchange and foreign currency-based consumer mortgage agreements. These contracts were amended by virtue of the law, and the law did not impose any obligations on the consumer in this respect. The notification of the conversion of the debt into HUF was sent to the consumer together with the notification of compliance with the clearing obligation. Under certain conditions, the law allowed the consumer to request that the debt arising from the loan contract be converted into HUF. The retention of the foreign exchange credit scheme could be beneficial primarily to those who received their income in foreign currency, the remaining maturity is short or their debt in foreign currency relative to their income is small. To sum up, therefore, it can be concluded that the forinting took place at the right time, since everything was given to allow the forinting to take place without any significant risks. The Curia's decision as a legal unit, the fall in the vulnerability of the economy, the particularly low rate of the central bank base rate, all helped to ensure that the forinting takes place and its positive impact is maintained over the coming years, the household assets can be stabilised, the shock-resistant capacity of the financial system is strengthened, and the effectiveness of monetary policy is increased. The law on the settlement of issues related to the conversion of claims arising from certain consumer loan agreements to forints continued the conversion of the wider range of contracts set out in the Forint Act. Following the conversion of debts from foreign currency loans into HUF, the difficulties in payment of debtors with motor vehicle loans, which were reinforced by the sudden and unexpected increase in Swiss francs in January 2015, have been an increasing problem, also in view of the large number of stakeholders. As a general rule, the scope of the aforementioned law covered all foreign currency loans with consumers, including financial leasing, which were not covered by the Forinting Act. In addition to the issuance of foreign exchange loans, the aid to foreign exchange credit victims prior to the foreign exchange laws was consistently reflected in financial legislation and the introduction of multi-level home protection measures as a complex government objective. On 11 August 2010, the law on judicial enforcement was amended, which ordered that all decisions to evacuate housing be postponed until 15 April 2011. The provisions of the Act also apply to ongoing enforcement procedures where eviction has not yet been carried out. On 9 June 2011, the Government submitted to the Parliament a draft law on the fixing of the exchange rate for foreign exchange loans and the order for the forced sale of residential immovable property. The purpose of the exchange rate fixation was to temporarily dampen the significant exchange rate volatility effect of each currency and thus make the position of those with a foreign currency loan more predictable. The Swiss franc loan rate was fixed at HUF 180, the euro at HUF 250 and the yen at HUF 2.5 for a transitional period of up to 60 months. For the difference between the fixed exchange rate and the above effective repayment rate, the creditor shall provide a special purpose forint mortgage credit which is not subject to the rules of responsible lending, also known as the opening of a collector account covering the same residential property as for the foreign exchange loan. The final maturity of the collective account credit shall not be earlier than that of the foreign exchange loan. The Hungarian State shall be liable as ready-to-pay guarantor for 100% of the debts arising from the collective account loan during the period of application of the fixed rate and shall be liable as guarantor for 25 percent of the debts arising from the collective account loan after the end of the period of application of the fixed rate. The interest part of the deferred debt of the customers opting for the exchange rate barrier was taken over by the banks and the budget in 50-50 percent. The number of people entering the price barrier exceeded 170 thousand, so customers were exempted from paying interest of more than HUF 50 billion, one client received an average discount of HUF 294 thousand. Until 1 July 2011, the Government maintained an auction moratorium for the social security of the home-credited in need. Under the exchange rate barrier law, the enforcement of housing credit debts could only start gradually because of the forced sales quota system, which regulated auctioning. For a limited period of time, until 2015, the auction of apartments and family houses was allowed only on narrow terms, both for the sake of social security for people in distress, and not at the same time for an unduly high proportion of housing stock to be placed on the market, thus making the value of the apartments worse. As a result, the Act amending certain laws relating to the protection of the home was incorporated, inter alia, in the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises, the possibility of redemption at the fixed rate, provided that its conditions are met. It should be noted that according to the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions, almost 170 thousand foreign currency-based mortgage families made use of fixed rate end-payments until the end of February 2012, which resulted in savings of HUF 370 billion to the debtors. One debtor received an average discount of 2 million HUF 176 thousand thanks to the lower exchange rate, so the currency loan stock concerned decreased by nearly a quarter as a result of the final repayment. The National Asset Manager was established by the law on the insurance of the housing of persons who were unable to fulfil their obligations under the credit agreement. The purpose of the establishment of the National Asset Manager was to ensure the purchase of the most socially deprived person, i.e. the residential property providing the housing of the loan-payer, under certain conditions, and then to continue to live there in the purchased residential area against the payment of the rent of the loan-payer and the person living with him in a household. That's 1245/2011. In Government Resolution No.2, the government ordered an immediate transfer of HUF 2 billion of funds to the asset manager. According to the Decision, the asset manager will purchase up to 5 thousand real estate by 31 December 2014. The agreement concluded between the Government and the Banking Association on 15 December 2011 states that the asset manager will purchase 8 thousand properties by the end of 2012, a total of 15 thousand by the end of 2013 and a total of 25 thousand by the end of 2014. It should be noted that in the context of the amendments to the National Asset Management Act, the range of beneficiaries has been broadened. According to the National Asset Management Programme, 40,000 socially dependent loan-paying families are expected to get rid of their mortgage debt by buying residential property by the State, and the borrower is exempted from the remaining bank debt by law and can continue to use its residential property for a rent far more favourable than the market rent. The settlement of debt by natural persons, i.e. private bankruptcy, could be a solution to meet repayment obligations related to accumulated debt and other debts. The private bankruptcy procedure is governed by the law on debt settlement for natural persons, which entered into force on 1 September 2015. The purpose of the private bankruptcy procedure is to restore the solvency of the debtor through cooperation between the debtor and his creditors and to adopt a debt repayment plan that takes into account the fair interests of the parties, while ensuring the maintenance and housing of the debtor and his family. In the private bankruptcy proceedings, it is possible for the debtor to retain the ownership of his residential property under the terms of the agreement or court decision or to purchase a less-value residential property instead. [[15.00]] During the procedure, the debt is settled by coordinating the interests of the debtor and creditors, in such a way that it results in the settlement of debts under lighter conditions, but at the same time in taking into account the appropriate interests of creditors. Private protection may be initiated by a debtor whose assets and repaymentable income are not sufficient to meet his obligation to repay his accumulated debt. Under private bankruptcy, debts are settled with the aim of restoring the debtor's ability to pay. The legislator's objective is to prevent the financial impossibility of the debtor and the family members living with him. Bankruptcy therefore means that the debtor is protected during the procedure from enforcement measures, forced sales outside enforcement and can renegotiate the settlement of his debts within an orderly framework, with State aid, and, in the event of failure of the negotiations, receive partial remission of debts or payment discounts under a judicial decision. For the repayment of the mortgage contract on residential property, the State grants state aid for several years, the amount of which may reach HUF 25,000 per month. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] In order to further protect the debtors, the amendment of the Law on Court Enforcement entered into force on 21 March 2017 provided that, in the event of the sale of residential property in the course of an enforcement procedure for the recovery of a claim based on a contract with the consumer, at least the value of the property would have to be reached at the current purchase offer and that the applicant for execution would be able to take over the property only for an amount corresponding to the value. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the properties seized are sold at the highest possible price and that outstanding claims are reimbursed as much as possible. According to the latest bill that is currently being published, the executioner postpones the discharge of residential property from 1 December to 1 March for a period from 15 November to 30 April if the debtor is a private individual. The bill thus prolongs the duration of the eviction moratorium. The provision concerned by the amendment shall also apply to enforcement procedures in progress on the date of its entry into force in which residential property has not yet been emptied. And then a few more words about where we stand today, and how you relate to this question within this House. You can see that there are empty chairs across the street. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: There are a few there too! Intercoms from Jobbik and LMP.]] Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has just mentioned the speeches before the agenda. The act of the MSZP is similar to when the arsonist holds firefighters responsible for the inoculation of the house. In this respect, the same foreign exchange lenders, who have driven Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans traps, are defending them in front of the House today. The opposition is also responsible, especially for the left-wing part, for the debt of Hungarian families. In Hungary, after 2002, as I mentioned, the former favourable interest rate subsidy scheme was abolished and families were driven into the trap of foreign exchange credit. We should not mention the catastrophic crisis management of the Gyurcsány government or even the Bajnai and Gyurcsány packages, but we know that the country was expected to pay a debt of EUR 20 billion immediately after 2010, which was the burden of the new government, making it more difficult for the government to move in this area, but, as I have just said, in addition to this tight margin, we have been able to do everything we can to relieve the burden. The opposition, on the other hand, did not support measures to assist foreign exchange believers. At the first eviction moratorium or even at the National Asset Manager, when we were able to help virtually one and a half million families, we limited interest rates, then neither Gábor Vona nor the MSZP voted to ban foreign exchange loans and limit unilateral interest increases by banks. You can look at it in the parliamentary records. The introduction of the exchange rate barrier, which I was talking about, temporarily reduced the burden and fixed the exchange rate, helped 170,000 families. Here, neither Gábor Vona nor the Jobbik fraction, nor the MSZP fraction, supported the introduction of the exchange rate barrier and thus the help of foreign exchange lenders. For example, the establishment of the National Asset Manager was not voted for by the LMP. We talked about the final repayment: neither the MSZP nor the LMP voted for it. Accountancy of banks, eviction moratorium. The eviction moratorium, which was extended by Parliament on 31 October 2017, can be seen by the two co-chairs of the LMP, neither Ákos Hadházy nor Bernadett Szél voted. It was not important for Benedek that families were not evicted during winter. In 2013, only 9 members of Jobbik's 43-member group voted for the extension of the moratorium from the 48-member MSZP fraction. In 2011, the majority of the MSZP fraction did not vote for the extension of the eviction moratorium; 25 MSZP representatives were not important In patients with chronic renal failure receiving chemotherapy, the dose should be temporarily withheld until the haemoglobin begins to decrease, at which point therapy should be reinitiated at approximately 25% lower than the previous dose. family with foreign exchange credit. And on the part of the LMP, 16 of their representatives did not vote for it... - that wasn't it, 6 didn't vote for the amendment. In 2010, 27 socialist Members did not vote for the eviction moratorium. I have only listed these to my fellow Members in this debate because if they really want to have a substantive debate on the situation of foreign exchange creditors, on foreign exchange loans, they may have to have this debate with this missing faction. In any event, the civilian government has managed the foreign exchange lending crisis, and in light of this, we have decided on the exchange rate barrier, end-payment, bank settlement. Members in opposition benches who initiated this debate did not vote for all the measures [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: 'Cause we're doing better!]] Although no one can argue that they serve to help foreign exchange taxpayers. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] If it were up to you [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] then the same results would have been made, as they voted, the repayment would be higher today, more would be left with the banks, more would go bankrupt. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] The measures taken by the government clearly show that what an executive power can do to help people trapped in the trap, those government steps have been taken. We will continue to deal with the situation of those in distress with sufficient sensitivity and care in the future, and as we have already helped them by taking appropriate measures, if possible, opportunities and room for manoeuvre, we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-188	Welcome, fellow Members. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-06-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to be clear on the issue of foreign exchange lending, it is worth recalling the events that led to the development of a crisis in foreign exchange lending and telling us what the Hungarian government has done to address the problems it inherited from the governments led by the MSZP and SZDSZ. When the government changed in 2002, foreign exchange loans represented only a marginal part of the entire lending market, the total foreign currency loan portfolio barely exceeded the HUF 300 billion level, most of which were corporate loans. Over this period, housing loans have barely reached a HUF 60 billion level. However, by continuously deleveraging interest rates on housing loans from 2003 onwards, while at the same time the management of the central bank at the time was constantly in favour of raising the level of the base rate, and thanks to the decisions of the Monetary Council, the central bank's core interest rates and thus, obviously, market interest rates have increased, the forint loans have become more and more expensive. To give you specific figures, ladies and gentlemen: in April 2002, at the time of the elections, the level of the main central bank base rate was 8.5 percent, and in October 2008, the same figure was 11.5 percent. In other words, the level of the central bank's core interest rate increased by 35 percent during this period, and this obviously brought with it an increase in the interest rate on the forint loans. The significant difference between the interest rates of the forint and the euro, the yen, but especially the interest rates of the Swiss franc, has led to the fact that forint loans have become expensive, and instead of this expensive forint loan facility, banks have offered foreign exchange loans to the general public, with a much lower interest rate level; in some places, where there was also half of the interest rates on the forints. [[15.10]] The only thing they didn't count on is that it's economic nonsense to offer the population a foreign currency loan against which families don't have foreign currency income. After all, in a country where, let's say, the exchange rate of the currency is linked to at least the euro, as in Bulgaria during this period, there is at least one brake in the system that makes the loss caused by the differences in exchange rates well limited to the population; this was not the case here. The only side of this was highlighted by the banks, and this is what government propaganda was all about, so that people were bravely borrowing foreign currency loans, and the only thing that was highlighted was the difference in interest rates, which obviously deceived the population, and the smallest fraction of the population who knew the mechanism to prevent exchange rate differences and exchange rate risk, and was even aware of the possible losses of exchange rate risks. Thanks to this government policy and the popularity of bank-promoted foreign currency loans, the value of retail foreign currency loans exceeded HUF 6500 billion in 2008, i.e. more than 100 times the level of 2002. Dear House, The risk of debt in foreign currency has put Hungarian society in virtually complete vulnerability. The hidden exchange rate risk then became a really big problem during the 2008 crisis, since until the autumn of 2008, according to previous years, the Swiss franc's exchange rate was around HUF 150, but at the beginning of February 2009, a Swiss franc cost more than HUF 200, which meant that it increased the repayments of foreign exchange lenders by 20-30 percent from one month to the next, because the banks entirely passed this risk on to the borrower families. In addition to the depreciation of the forints, the situation of foreign exchange legitimists was made difficult by the fact that a lot of people lost their jobs during the crisis, so the Hungarian families had two negative effects at the same time: on one side, the repayments increased significantly by 20-30 percent and later by 40-50 percent, while on the other side, one, unfortunately, two earnings were lost from the family. By the end of 2008, the debt of foreign currency loans, as I mentioned, increased to HUF 6500 billion, so this type of foreign currency debt was also a serious risk to the national economy. Hungary's vulnerability was significant even before 2008, due to the misguided and irresponsible economic policies of left-wing governments, which was exacerbated by the crisis. It is no coincidence that Hungary had to turn to the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission for credit from among the Member States of the European Union, which was once a success by the socialists. Today we know the risks, the burdens and the consequences they have taken to their necks, which they wanted to pass on to the Hungarian population in a completely natural way. So the Left not only lured the budget, but also the Hungarian families into a debt trap by 2010, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families were in a hopeless situation, many were at risk of eviction. The Socialist Government did not address these problems at all, which were already visible between 2008 and 2010, did not grant any support to foreign exchange creditors and did not take any action to help families in some way in distress. Ladies and gentlemen, With Fidesz's election success in 2010, as in many other areas, a new era for foreign exchange lending began. From the outset, the new government's economic policy has had a key role to play in reducing external vulnerability and addressing the problem of retail foreign exchange loans as one of the most important elements of this. It was clear that so far the practice had to end, so, in the first step, we essentially made it impossible for the banks to continue the activities of foreign exchange lending towards the population and, as a result, the growth in retail lending has stopped. The next step was to take stock of what could be done with the EUR 7000 billion loan pool by 2010, which meant more than a million contracts among Hungarian families, the Hungarian population. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, This means that the socialists' rampage has put the home of over a million families at risk. Between September 2011 and February 2012, the government allowed mortgage-backed debtors to repay their loans at a reduced rate. Nearly 170,000 debtors made use of the possibility of final repayment, which resulted in savings of HUF 370 billion for Hungarian families. As a result, by spring 2012, the stock of foreign exchange loans decreased by more than HUF 1500 billion. In order to reduce the additional interest-enhancing effect of constantly rising exchange rates, we introduced the exchange-rate barrier in autumn 2011. The aim of this solution was to temporarily dampen the effect of exchange rate fluctuations by fixing the exchange rate repayment rates for foreign exchange-based mortgages for five years. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, spoke in detail about the exchange rate level at which these foreign exchange loans were fixed. To give you an example: the largest volume of foreign currency loans was nominald in Swiss francs, here the Swiss franc was recorded at HUF 180 at the time when a Swiss franc otherwise cost 262 HUF on the market. Interestingly, neither Jobbik nor the representatives of the MSZP supported the exchange barrier, except for some Members. The incoming debtors also received debt waivers, and half and half of the interest on deferred debts were taken over by the banks and the Hungarian budget. The number of customers entering exceeded 170 thousand, which freed the families from paying an additional HUF 60 billion interest. It is absolutely important to mention in the list of measures the establishment of the National Asset Manager. The National Asset Manager has been assisting debtors in the most difficult situation since 1 January 2012. By purchasing the property of the lenders, the asset manager shall provide the debtor and his family with the possibility to remain in their own property as a tenant at a reduced rent until his or her financial position, job opportunity or income is such that, by the way, the loan is repaid again or agreed with the bank on the repayment of the loan. This solution has helped over 35,000 families so far. Interestingly, for example, the representatives of the LMP from the opposition benches did not support this measure either. Dear House, The final solution to the situation was the accountability of banks, the recovery of overpayments due to unfair exchange rates and unilateral contractual adjustments. In the framework of the settlement, the amount credited by the banks to the authentic ones was close to HUF 750 billion. As a result of the settlement, the amounts still to be repaid decreased significantly, the debtors had to pay an average of 25-35 percent less each month as a repayment. At the same time, the interest rates on the market could have increased by up to 70 percent, so in addition to the 25-35 percent savings and reductions, it should also be taken into account that if the market mechanisms had continued to operate, they would not have had to pay 25-35 percent less, but 70 percent more as repayments. It was the Curia's decision as a unit of civil law that, taking into account the decision of the European Court of Justice, set out the legal framework in which the forinting could take place. On the basis of the Curia's decision, the transfer of exchange rate risk to the consumer was lawful and only two cases of unfairness were possible. According to the decision, the contract was considered unfair if the financial institution did not at all inform the consumer of the exchange rate risks, or if it informed the consumer, but did not explicitly point out that this risk was borne by the consumer without any ceiling. The law on the issue of foreign exchange loans, which entered into force on 1 February 2015, established the basis for the forinting of both residential and free-use mortgage loans. The Curia decided that the conversion should have been carried out according to the market rate, but the forinting still protected the authentic from a significant additional burden, as the Swiss franc's exchange rate subsequently increased significantly. There was a time in 2015, ladies and gentlemen, when a single Swiss franc cost HUF 378, but it had a steady exchange rate above HUF 320. The difference between the price applied to mortgage loans in November 2014 and the exchange rate in August 2015 was borne by the banks and the State from the customers. This measure meant a reduction of around 10-11 percent, the debtors got rid of exchange rate fluctuations and unpredictable monthly instalments. As a result of the forinting, households have been able to save nearly HUF 200 billion in payments on this branch. As a result of the measures presented so far, the stock of foreign currency loans decreased to less than HUF 100 billion by the end of 2015, i.e. only 1 percent of the total retail loan portfolio. [[15.20]] As a result of the measures, nearly one million families were assisted by the Hungarian government, worth approximately HUF 1200 billion. I think that this is a very serious achievement that all the pro-government Members and all the Members who supported these measures can be proud of. After the forinting of foreign currency beliefs, a solution had to be found for the forinting of remaining consumer loans, which is why the Parliament adopted in September 2015 a bill for the release of foreign currency-based car and consumer loans, which concerned some 200,000 contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the comprehensive series of measures implemented in several steps, the retail foreign exchange loans introduced by the Socialists have been removed from the Hungarian financial institutions. What the left did wrong, we fixed. Of course, it would have been best if this had not happened; foreign exchange loans did not appear in the retail market, and the government and banks did not put hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens into this impossible situation. After 2010, Fidesz did everything in its power to improve the situation of foreign exchange-credit families. I think that we have adopted a package of measures, we have also taken decisions here, in the Hungarian Parliament, which we should be proud of, not to mention that several elements of our measures have also been taken by the countries of the Central European region which are otherwise affected by foreign exchange lending. As a result of the measures we have taken, not only the situation of families taking out foreign currency loans has improved, but the vulnerability of the Hungarian economy has also decreased substantially. Many years of work has been recognised not only by the market, analysts and international organisations, but, as I said, has served for example in several other EU Member States. I think, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that the measures that the Hungarian Government has taken in this area, and the decisions that the Hungarian Parliament's Fidesz and KDNP representatives have taken or supported the House, have been or have been intended to achieve only one goal: to improve the situation of Hungarian families, that the impossible situation in which the socialists have brought hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, we can also exempt more than one million Hungarian families from it as many families as possible. I think the programme has been successfully completed. Obviously, although there may still be work to be done, the brigade of work has been honoured and we can be proud of the results we have achieved. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-190	Thank you. Since the MSZP Group is not present, no one will speak, so I give the floor to István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-06-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with my fellow Member, Erik Bánki, that it is not possible to speak responsibly about currency beliefs without exploring the situation before 2010. And I might jump a little further back than my fellow Member did. He went back to 2002. I think, however, that it is also important to talk about the measures taken by the first civil government before 2002 in order to help the Hungarian families build homes and, by the way, the situation in which it handed over the housing support system to the socialists. Here we can see that the first Orbán government has built a housing support system which is very similar to today's discount system. If we recall, after 2000, the government introduced interest-supported housing loans. This meant that, under the rules in force at the time, a mortgage loan could be used for the construction, purchase of a new apartment, purchase of a second-hand apartment; the State granted aid for interest on mortgage bonds issued as a source of a loan of up to HUF 30 million. But in addition, the personal income tax allowance has expanded the range of home-building subsidies. It was also possible, then we did not make a VAT reduction, but the first Orbán government then supported families with a VAT refund. At the time, there was still a tax on new properties, in which case the government introduced a tax reduction and extended the family support system, the semi-socipol system. What were the results of these measures? The fact that in 2002 HUF-based housing loans had risen has led to a radical decline in interest rates; while the Horn government had an average interest rate of almost 26 per cent in 1998, this decreased to 6 per cent in 2002. We have also seen that until 2002, foreign exchange beliefs do not spread at all; only 15 percent of residential loans are foreign exchange-based, but they were mostly corporate loans and not real estate loans. In 2002, as a result of this housing support system, GDP increased by 5 percent, and construction was one of the driving sectors with an increase of more than 10 percent. So, overall, we can say that the housing support system established between 98 and 2002 supported the Hungarian families, and that the budget expenditure paid for it was also reimbursed. The sustainability of the system was also ensured after 2002 as the tax and contribution revenues realised were also proportionately higher in the case of higher levels of expenditure. It could therefore be said that the housing support scheme established in 2002 could have been maintained further. However, socialist governments did not choose to do so. Indeed, as Minister of State Pál Völner pointed out, it is very telling that the main directors of the foreign exchange credit problem are not in this Chamber today, since the group of MSZP did not come to this debate. So in 2002, the socialists did not decide to further expand or continue the housing support system of the civil government, despite the fact that the system was stable, but instead the socialist governments created the partial coverage of irresponsible spending of money by the complete reduction of the previous housing support system. Interest rate subsidies will be completely dismantled in two steps, in 2003, and will also be reduced and even completely abolished by 2007. And what was the result of this policy? The fact that the liquidation of the housing support system clearly pushed the Hungarian population towards foreign exchange loans. While foreign exchange loans accounted for just over 15 percent of the population's loans in 2002, nearly 60 percent of the population's loans were foreign currency-based in 2007 and totally over HUF 4300 billion in a limited period of 5 years. Moreover, by the end of 2008, the debt of foreign currency loans had already increased to HUF 6500 billion, i.e. 70 percent of the population's loans were foreign currency loans. Moreover, due to the disastrous crisis management of the Gyurcsány government and the economic crisis in 2008, exchange rates have changed dramatically, and the repayments of Hungarian families have also increased significantly. This has been exacerbated by austerity measures by left-wing governments and tax increases. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are in a hopeless situation, many are at risk of eviction. Socialist governments did not pay any attention to family debt and did not give them any support. On the part of the Bajnai government, it could only afford a banking code of ethics in 2009, but this - we can safely say - didn't hurt the crooked foreign exchange lenders. That is why we think that it is completely uncredited that today the same people who have apparently defended the foreign exchange legitimists who have driven the Hungarian families into a foreign currency loan trap are protecting them; because we believe that the opposition is responsible for the debt of Hungarian families. And there is also one responsible person who should be mentioned, the then financial supervision and the then National Bank - this was still working separately, not integrated, as it is today - because no authority has drawn sufficient attention to the risks of foreign exchange loans or has not sanctioned the standard practice that most of the foreign exchange credit contracts were concluded by banks via intermediaries. The intermediaries did not comply with the information obligations most of the time, the main thing was that they were able to place as much credit on the retail market as possible, and this also led to the fact that the Hungarian population was unaware of the risks of foreign exchange lending. That is why we believe that the National Bank and the then financial supervision are heavily responsible for the development of the situation. [[15.30]] That's how we got to 2010. So the Orbán government inherited a difficult situation, about 1 million foreign currency loan contracts worth 7,000 billion forints, and, of course, a completely runaway government debt and a high government deficit. This was also spiced by a high unemployment rate, but because the Orbán government recognised that foreign exchange lending is a major contribution to the vulnerability of the Hungarian economy and has become a social problem, the government of Viktor Orbán has provided assistance to families in difficulty due to foreign exchange lending. Following the 2010 elections, one of the first measures of the Fidesz-KDNP government announced an eviction moratorium or banned the payment of mortgage-based foreign exchange loans. The exchange rate barrier was then introduced and the end-payment was also possible. In addition to the above, the government has created the National Asset Manager, which has provided a safe home for over 100,000 people. The government's actions helped one and a half million foreign exchange-credit families. My colleague Erik Bánki reported on the measures in detail. I'd just like to stress the effect of these things. The ban on mortgage loans has prevented further increases in foreign exchange loans. This bill was then not supported by Gábor Vona and the MSZP. The final repayment helped 170 thousand debtors and their foreign exchange loans were repaid at a discount rate of nearly HUF 1400 billion. The bill on this issue was not supported by the MSZP, but it was not voted by the LMP. The price barrier helped nearly 180,000 debtors. The exchange barrier customers were exempted from payment of interest of about HUF 60 billion. This bill was not supported by the vote of Gábor Vona, nor by Jobbik's faction, nor by the MSZP faction. Forints 750 billion were credited for the accounting of banks due to the exchange rate gap and unilateral contractual amendments. On the one hand, debtors had reduced their outstanding capital debt, but their average repayment obligation also decreased by about 25 percent, and foreign exchange loans were forinted. On 1 February 2015, the Law on Forinting came into force and ensured the forinting of both residential and free-use mortgage loans. This converted nearly half a million debtors' loans into HUF. It should be pointed out that the good-time forinting has protected the Hungarian population from significant additional burdens, who have mostly taken on foreign exchange loans in Swiss francs. The conversion was made at the rate of 256 HUF fixed in November 2014 for Swiss franck loans. The exchange rate of franc broke free two months later, thanks to the decision of the Swiss central bank, and rose by 30 percent to 321 HUF. According to experts, the repayment of the franc loans could have increased by 50 percent in Hungary, but thanks to good government timing Hungarian debtors were saved. It is no coincidence that this very year Minister Mihály Varga has received an award for this step, the Minister for Finance of the Year. It can therefore be said that Fidesz-KDNP's measures have reduced the capital debt of Hungarian foreign exchange lenders, reduced repayments and foreign exchange loans almost completely disappeared from the Hungarian market. By the end of 2015, the stock of foreign exchange loans decreased below HUF 100 billion, i.e. only 1 percent of the total retail loan was foreign exchange-based. Now allow another regional outlook, as it is also worth examining whether foreign exchange lending has increased as much as in Hungary. If we look around, we can see that foreign exchange loans have not been found anywhere, almost anywhere in the 2000s, to the same extent as in Hungary. This also shows the responsibility of the then governing parties, the central bank and financial supervision. This was not a major problem at all in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. In Croatia, although the share of foreign exchange loans was 77 per cent of the total loan portfolio, in Romania it was 68 per cent, but there was an important difference compared to our country or Poland that there was not the most risky Swiss franc, but the majority of euro-based loans at lower risk, so that residents were not affected by the crisis or the movement of exchange rates to the same extent as those with foreign exchange credit in Hungary. There is, in fact, a good example of how it could have been done, Poland's example, where, although foreign exchange loans ran up between 2000 and 2003, partly because of the weakening of the Złoty, partly because of the strict action of the Polish authorities - where, by the way, hard recommendations were made to banks regarding foreign exchange lenders - foreign currency loans fell after 2003 and therefore the 2008 crisis affected Polish foreign exchange lenders much less. It can be said that in these countries, the complex series of government measures that took place in Hungary was almost completely lacking. All these countries tried to do was to reduce the risk of Swiss franc loan-based loans, thus helping foreign exchange lenders to convert their credit into domestic currency or euro. In Poland, the Swiss franc loan settlement law was adopted only in August 2016, following the Hungarian example. There, for example, banks could only voluntarily decide to convert Swiss franck loans into złotyy. Nor did they provide significant assistance to Swiss franck lenders in Romania. Overall, therefore, we can say that foreign exchange credentials did not rely on the opposition, but Fidesz-KDNP has been expected so far, and we can say that they can count on it in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-192	Thank you. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-11-06-193	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you to Fidesz-KDNP for the production meeting that would have gone to any party state meeting. If this was done 40-50 years ago, no one would have noticed that it wasn't in the middle of a one-party dictatorship, because they could lie about a social disaster at such a net level that it was absolutely amazing. By the way, I'm telling you that many of you believe that, seriously, you believe what's been said. When Secretary of State Völner, who is on the phone right now, tells us... - so they're going to turn to the credit victims with the sensitivity they've had so far, you might want to ask them if they want that sensitivity, or I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, what it's gonna be like when they get insensitive. Then what will happen to evicted people or ruined lives if you are not as sensitive as you have been? - and here's the quotation mark, of course. I must also say that I am outraged by the fact that the government has prevented the debate on foreign exchange agents from taking place in the presence of foreign exchange credentials by, say, from the expert box to the gallery, to the balcony, by those involved who are involved in all this. You have tried to prevent this by all means, whether you dare not go to Kossuth Square, dare not appear at a demonstration, dared not, dared not come to the currency-credited round table, which was intended to be a representative of all parties. There was another party that was there, so it wasn't just the Jobbik, so they wouldn't think so. In addition to all other parties, the Bank Alliance and the Government of Hungary were invited by us and the victims, the civil society organisations representing them, which might have told you their stories from real life. Since you have not behaved like men and are not willing to speak to these people, if you don't like it Hungarian, so I'm going to live-in their opinions, yes, here, on my phone, your messages will arrive, and you will get this. [[15.40]] That's because they're not willing to talk to the people involved in any way. And that production conference that we've heard here, it's quite outrageous. My fellow Member Hollik, why didn't his history book come up in 2001, when the whole process began, during the regency of Mihály Varga, when, by allowing unilateral treaty amendments, your gang released the ghost from the bottle? Why didn't you start that story there? [[György Szilágyi: Yes, yes!]] No one is arguing that the MSZP does not dare to be here now because the rise in so-called foreign currency loans is linked to their era, and it was a net economic treason that was committed against Hungary. Net treason was what they did and that cost people their lives. But, Mr Hollik, you have not been here in Parliament, and I have not been here before 2010, but the protocols are stubborn. You can look it up, I did it, you look it up. Where were the fighter opposition speeches of Fidesz? Where were the demonstrations organised by Szilárd Németh for the benefit of foreign exchange credit damage when that bastard Gyurcsány-Bajnai government let these loans run up? You've seen the trouble, because you've been warned from Switzerland, you've been warned from abroad, you've been warned from abroad. Where were your warrior's protests? They're not in the records! They have no parliamentary speeches on this subject. Not only were demonstrations not organized, at least here in Parliament, within the well-heated walls, in good suits, they would have told us the danger of Hungary. There's no sign of that. If there is, please contact Parliament.hu, send it to me, and then we can have a meaningful debate about what you did before 2010 - but there is no sign of this! The Fidesz was in opposition, like the one in the grass. Either he did not perceive this problem, or he did not dare to enter into it, because, as the later events proved, the same Fidesz-KDNP first made a deal with the Banking Association and then with the EBRD, as I recall, in February 2015, where he undertook not to impose any additional burden on the banks concerned in order to help the injured. And speaking of help, don't do anyone any favors. This government doesn't favor anyone. You should be justice, not throwing a lifeline, getting back the people involved's own money. So this government doesn't give, it doesn't do good! Don't get me wrong, you didn't put anything extra into this system, you didn't even bring the zero. All they had to do was give these people their own money back. As we say, the Quaestor case could have been prevented, the whole scandal; if my fellow Member János Volner's twenty-something amendment had been accepted at the height of 2010, this financial cataclysm would not have developed. You simply do not listen to anyone else, even if the intention is improving, even if the amendment is a proposal that would, by the way, make the lives of thousands and tens of thousands of our fellow human beings easier. Here and now, while speaking to my fellow Member Erik Bánki, he brings happiness to the good people with things that are simply not true. They say that you had to put forints at market prices because the Curia's legal unit decision, whatever your decision, was circling you. That's just not true! So let's ask the exact quote that leads us to believe that the Curia's decision as a legal unit, or any of its documents, would have allowed us to conclude that you would have to forint and trick people at market prices. It didn't happen. You can't find a logical link between the two processes, because there isn't. You wanted to forint at a market price, who took out his loan at 160 forints, threw the 256 forint conversion into his neck, and the thin argument is that the exchange rate grew even further later. It's such a kindergarten argument that in the first hour of the first semester of any economic college, they would cut out the man who applied and stood up in an hour with one of these. It's pretty amazing. The fact that a later economic event might have pushed debtors into even worse circumstances does not relieve you of the responsibility of having to forint them at the rate of admission. [[For signal:]] Get up when you're shaking your head. Press the button, explain to me why if someone took a so-called loan at 160 forints, he has to convert it to 256! Explain it to me in three sentences. Ethical arguments, legal arguments, economic arguments. I'm open to it. Someone have to be man enough to stand up and try to explain the inexplicable. Why the market rate? What was the reason for this? Why was that necessary? Why were thousands of billions taken from the affected Hungarian people? It is quite simply incomprehensible, as is the fact that judicial meetings are being held, trying to influence judgment. According to today's system, there is a clear political violence that is leaking into the courtroom, so the whole system of justice is being attempted politically. The decisions of the legal unit were essentially about the fact that they tried to explain to the otherwise independent and sovereign judges. [[Dr. Pál Völner is shaking his head.]] - Don't wave your head, that's what happened. - how and how to decide on foreign exchange-credit matters. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This is persecution mania.]] They destroyed tens of thousands of Hungarian people. And they mentioned the eviction moratorium. It was listed at the production meeting which betterman or which opposition motion he did not vote for or what it was he voted against or perhaps abstained on. I would like to remind you that the eviction moratorium is not only the Jobbik, so let us not be incorrigible, more opposition forces, but what I am sure is that every year you have suggested setting it up and maintaining it fully until you have resolved this problem as promised. I didn't promise not to leave anyone on the side of the road, because I've never been on the government with my party. I didn't put it on billboards to account for the banks, you did. The thing was, we did this every year, we asked you to do it, and you voted it out every time in the committee section. So the fate of hundreds, thousands of people evicted, ruined by you in this regard. And fortunately, this moratorium was announced until the elections, so let us not discuss what, although a gesture, is only a cosmetic step, but a good step, so I think it is very important. At the same time, however, there will probably be a number of different solutions or what they say and we will always try to prevent them from doing so. We tell them that the National Asset Manager is about the fact that even though you're not being put on the street right now, but you're taking ownership of the property, you can stay there as a tenant. It would also deserve an examination of how many of the new tenants created this way became solvent Hungarians, they could return to the labour market as active people, how many people had their lives restored. For what we see is that these unfortunate people are caught in a situation that they are not created by themselves, and the possibility of turning back is, in fact, negligible if measured in percentages. Similarly, with regard to the exchange barrier, it is obviously good to have some air for the debtors for five years, and there is nothing wrong with that. But now, when you have a problem with interest, why don't you examine how many currency barriers have recovered after five years? After all, if your solution is as perfect as the three of you have been leading it up to, then it would be expected that the people involved are very large in debt, they are solvent, they are taxpayers and they belong to the production sector in Hungary, while the reality is not this, but the fact that they have an interest in a problem that they have not caused. The reference to the private bankruptcy is quite amusing, as hardly more than a thousand people could or would have wanted to meet the very, very strict conditions, and tens of thousands could be helped by such a construction. Jobbik's proposal was not to be so strict and to be integrated into the system after five years as a kind of walking right. So anyone who respects the strict conditions for five years should be relieved of any additional debts, if he so wishes, of leaving as a free man. It's not our invention, by the way, it's a construction that works in many locations abroad. We wanted to import it for the benefit of the Hungarian people, and you prevented it. It should also be said that there has never been as many evictions as during the regency of the governments of Fidesz-KDNP in Hungary. You can't wash this off. The moratorium should have been ordered and maintained until this problem was fully resolved. If you no longer appear on the foreign exchange-credit wheel table, if you no longer want to hear the opinion of the relevant civil society leaders, you should at least manage or read your e-mail account, as you will receive it from where I quote you. After all, the civilians concerned rephrase their proposals for solutions that could still be passed through the legal system. Obviously, these will be explained in detail later. What the remaining three minutes give me 40 seconds is to mention the headlines, but it is quite certain that the examination of the documents of the notaries would be an urgent task. In the notary system, civilians, according to stakeholders, have committed a number of violations. This issue should also be taken into account by a parliamentary committee, where the views of civil experts should be included. [[15.50]] And we also need to see that it can be assumed that many of the debtors may have been overpaid in the first half of the term, so it is assumed that the banks have broken a large number of contracts - which can actually be treated as a fact - and that part of the loan amount has simply not been given, so there are plenty of areas to be clarified. And if so many areas remain to be clarified, it would also be worth considering the extension of the eviction moratorium, namely the ongoing implementation events, auctions, and surrenders; therefore, the entire system should be frozen until we can see clearly, because there appear to be such differences of opinion in the matter even within Parliament that make it unsolvable and that solutions cannot be implemented. We also need to see that a number of people have turned to various fast-lending companies not specifically because of their so-called foreign exchange loan, but because, in addition to their fair repayment attempt here, they have failed to pay the utility bills, so one debt has accumulated the other. It should therefore also be examined what methods of debt restructuring are possible in respect of other utility bills, service charges and others. Everyone should pay what they owe, but if the uncertain legal structure has caused them to get into trouble where otherwise the conditions seemed predictable, let us give these people the opportunity to pay back, whether in a longer period of time or with lower details, but they can do so, do not lose their homes because of this. Another very serious issue has to be raised, and this is the possibility of amnesty following the emergence of criminal-like interest rates in bulk, specifically on criminal-like items and interest rates, because here there have been a number of burdens - whether we talk about maladministration within the enforcement system - whose background is completely vague, or they have been calculated on the basis of debts that may not even exist. All I have to do is refer back to the HUF 33 million claim from the 5 million debt, which no secretary of state or Member can explain how it could have been created in Hungary. There is no legal argument, no economic background factor that would explain such a thing in the realm of reality! It is quite simply impossible, a debt of HUF 5 million cannot be made in a fair national economy with a claim of HUF 33 million. No way! And it is also necessary to see that the Hungarian National Bank still has mostly the money of those who have been damaged by foreign currency loans, resulting from the conversion. Jobbik would create a compensation fund, channeling these funds to those in the most difficult situation, because you simply forgot about those who have already been evicted. In the meantime, I can suggest that you look into the eyes of the brave men with whom you have done this trouble and have left it. I'm not saying that you're the only cause, no one's said that, but since 2010, in seven and a half years, you have an unsolved responsibility for this problem, that these people are protesting at Kossuth Square right now, they're right behind us, not at all at the invitation of a party. Everyone except you sees this problem in Hungary; I wish you to see it at last! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-194	Thank you. The LMP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2017-11-06-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, If we're gonna have a production meeting, then if it's goose, it should be fat. Let's see what the Fidesz-KDNP has not voted for in recent years. I've gathered some examples. Listen to the register. They did not vote to give the minimum wage earners 23,000 forints more to take home. Average wage earners fell from HUF 38,000 due to Fidesz. You did not vote for a family tax reduction until the age of 24 in higher education. Fidesz hasn't increased the family allowance in nine years. They said no to giving single - parent families a family allowance of HUF 20,000. You're the reason people still pay 27 percent VAT instead of 5 percent for food such as fresh fruit or vegetables. You have not voted to spend 300 billion more on raising wages for public sector workers. It was you, my fellow Members, who voted against the increase in wages of social workers, daycare workers and pedagogical assistants each time. You did not vote for any opposition proposals at all in this term, nor did you allow the Parliament to put on the agenda the proposals that this side of the horseshoe had placed on the table. So I have no idea what right you have to drag all sorts of suggestions in here and take them out of all of them and say that we didn't vote for things. You know why? 'Cause we did a lot tougher than that. Because, in our house, I am not going to tell you what kind of adjectives - the President of the Central Bank is unable to ski hundreds of billions of forints and spend all kinds of things, but we would have given it to those people who are sitting behind us now, and who are protesting on Kossuth Square, while you twelve are sitting in the Parliament's horseshoe, holding a small group session, and trying to explain the inexplicable reason why they could not solve this problem in seven years. Because if you had solved this problem, there wouldn't be a protest there, and these people wouldn't be sitting here, they'd be sitting there. That is the situation, Mr. Secretary of State, Secretary of State and another Secretary of State. Where are the ministers, by the way? Where are the ministers at this hour? Where are the ministers when the Hungarian Parliament is discussing such a question? All come in, come in, the Prime Minister. Let the Hungarian Prime Minister come in and give his opinion on this matter. [[To Dr. Pál Völner:]] Don't wave your head, be nice, and don't slap your hand. These people are fighting for their lives. There will be evictions, and you will have the nerve to come into the Hungarian Parliament and act as if something had been placed on the table. Well, hell, no. We initiated this foreign exchange-credit debate, yes, that's what we're talking about. We initiated it because we believe that if there is something to be debated about in this Parliament, it is the issue of foreign exchange creditors. 'Cause few people have been as screwed over over the last decades as they have with the Feds. And if we remember it well, there was a debate day this summer, an extraordinary meeting here in Parliament, when we were talking about a different subject, but we brought in the issue of foreign exchange credentials, and you, honourable State Secretarys, here in the first row, said that there was still work to be done on this. Since you're here and you're here, be kind and tell me what else you want to do, because that's why these people are here and that's why they're protesting. Tell me what you want to put on the table for the last five months of your government. I guarantee you one thing: we will settle this matter when we get to the government. There are all the billings, the LMP bill, and I don't want to preach with others, but there are other factions here that put normal suggestions on the table. By going to government, the LMP will be able to close the foreign exchange loan case, unlike you, who have the nerve to come into the Hungarian Parliament and say that they have done everything they can. The point is, last time, our proposal to prevent evictions from starting was rejected. This one's been voted off, too. What are we talking about now, gentlemen? Stand up and tell me what you want to do, because what you put on the table was nothing. And you know, if we want to understand what happened to the foreign exchange lenders, we're gonna have to go back 15 years. It was also a situation in this country when people did not have an apartment, and there was a favorable opportunity, and they made these people believe that they could get out of their moldy apartments and a situation where three or four children would sleep together in a room, and that they could somehow make a decent home with a reasonable payment. All these people wanted was a home. And you have led them to government, and the socialists have led them to government. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government side.]] This is the most unfair thing you can do, that a government does not take responsibility for it, even though you can see precisely what the banks have done - because you are educated people. And when they came to government, they said it was good, so now we're gonna put a special tax on the banks. How much of this money did the Feds get? And when Matolcsy came into this whole situation, how much did you give to the Feds? 'Cause I don't think so. György Matolcsy was shopping for castles and various million-dollar carpets and all that crap, but he didn't give this money to the FX. So, gentlemen, if you'll please take a deep breath and tell me that if you've done nothing for the benefit of the masses, what are you going to do for the five months of your government? I now give the floor to Ákos Hadházy, who will present the specific proposals of the LMP. But one thing I can guarantee you is that this situation will be resolved by going to the government, but not the way you did it, but the way the LMP does it.
u2017-11-06-196	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy.
u2017-11-06-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's very important, it says a lot about who's here, and it's in the government's hands to try to save the unsaveable, and it's trying to tell these people that their problem is solved. Second-rate politicians. [[Defiance.]] I would also like to summon the Prime Minister, who is a little more prestigious than you. Let's hear it. [[It turns on a magnetofon, Viktor Orbán can be heard: Ladies and Gentlemen! We have to help, because we can't have a million people in a country just fooled by ukmukk. The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2017-11-06-198	I'm sorry, Congressman, but it wasn't predicted that you would use any aids, so I had to stop that. Please continue.
u2017-11-06-199	Thank you very much. If it's against the house rules to summon the Prime Minister's voice here, then I'll read what they wouldn't allow. He said it wouldn't be possible for people to pay their salaries for years, and it turns out they owe more than when they started paying back their debts. [[16.00]] The Prime Minister said that this can't be done to Hungarians; that's what he said in 2011. You know very well that the situation is the same. There's a lot of people, hundreds of thousands of people, and I'm like that, and I've been paying the loans for ten years, and I've paid four fifths for what I've hired, and I still owe you one and a half times. I can pay for it, but a lot of people can't pay for it. You know as well as I do, there are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who have a huge problem with this. We see evictions, we see evictions every day, human tragedies. We're talking crisis. It's the same crisis as the refugee crisis. It's a crisis, just like the health crisis. It's a crisis, too. You have now voted very hard for the moratorium because you have found that it is not good for your campaign when it comes to eviction in Parliament every day. We will also submit the moratorium proposal, not just until April, but until this problem is resolved. Debate day is, of course, the task of confrontation, but mostly of presenting the proposals for solutions. For this to happen, however, history really needs to be dealt with, and what has happened has to be dealt with. Actually, we're not talking about currency lending, we're talking about a mass bet. About betting: the banks bet that the forint would weaken, while the people taking loans bet that the forint would stagnate. It's just that the banks have forgotten that a gentleman doesn't bet for sure. They knew, they could prove that the Hungarian forint would weaken, and it will weaken significantly, and this will ruin or even take away the lives of a huge number of people. However, in this game it was not only the banks who were not gentlemen. In this game there was no gentleman in the government that deliberately weakened the forint. Remember Lajos Kósa; but before he weakened him, he did not correct the problem of hundreds of thousands of people, even millions. You guys told me that we heard a lot of stupid things here today, but they said that the most outrageous thing was when they said that they did the forinting at the right time. If they had done the forinting at the right time, they would have done it in 2010. The National Bank bought the euro for 160 HUF, in 2010 it could have HUF 180 HUF. But if you were late, you could have HUF 220 in 2011, and you could have spent 240 HUF in 20102. Why didn't you? Why didn't you do that? The other reason you're not gentlemen at all, in fact, you're more of a scoundrels, is that you've played the game of kicking out the bank tax, and you've said that you've really punished the banks. You say, Csaba Dömötör said on a government account that the banks took HUF 1000 billion from 2011, but they forgot one thing: to give this extra profit back to those from whom the banks took it back. [[Csaba Dömötör: I've never been to government information.]] They forgot to give it back to the FX guys. LMP pointed out that the special tax is in order, but only if it is returned to the foreign exchange lenders. They forgot that. LMP's gonna make up for that. We will return the 1000 billion forints. Obviously, in the budget, you've already spent it on Puskás Stadium and all that crap, but you can give it back little by little, if not in a year. The other villain, and perhaps the most difficult to understand why he dared to do so, is the operation of the Hungarian National Bank. He dared to do what he did, because he knows very well that the average person doesn't feel it, and he doesn't know that if the forint is weakened, it can be good for someone. The average person feels the forint is weakening, his debt increases, the details are growing. He doesn't know that you can make a lot of horriable money on weakening forints. The Hungarian National Bank did this. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank, when it sold the money to the banks for HUF 260, which it bought for HUF 160, won HUF 100 in every euro. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have all been quite mistaken. We are talking about HUF 260 billion, which is included in the foundations of the National Bank. But there is much more money available than the National Bank, and this is very important for the solution, because obviously this money must be returned, and it can be returned immediately to foreign exchange lenders. On 17 August, the Hungarian National Bank published a communication in which it boasts that it handed over EUR 8 billion to the banks at the time of the forinting. If he delivered EUR 8 billion at the rate of 260 HUF and bought it at 160 HUF and won 100 HUF on each euro, this is exactly HUF 800 billion in profit. It was quite shocking to me one week when we talked about the report of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank, where the Supervisory Board report says that between . 13 and 15 HUF 890 billion profit was generated by the Hungarian National Bank. We don't know where all this money is, because of this, HUF 150 billion is in a profit reserve, 260 billion in luxury foundations, 50 is paid to the state. There's still 400 billion forints somewhere. We will find it, and we will give this 800 billion forints to the foreign exchange lenders immediately. Obviously, for the first time, those who are most in need, those who are most in need, but, of course, those who have a huge amount of overtime or because they are going abroad, they leave their parents, their families, but one way or another, they can moan about these unfair loans. Therefore, LMP will do everything in its power to correct the loans currently running to around HUF 160-180, and we will also look at how to compensate those who have somehow worked out the loan before, or who have already lost their apartment because they have implemented their apartment. This is fair, and with this HUF 1800 billion, we have every opportunity to do so. We are waiting for very important court decisions in the EU court, which must decide who should take the risk of foreign exchange credit rates. It's obviously not fair that it's just for the Feds. But the interesting thing for us is not what the court decision will be, the interesting thing for us is that we know that the Hungarian National Bank, which is responsible for this, must bear the risk not only for the foreign exchange lenders, but also for the responsible government, the government responsible for this. Unfortunately, we cannot provide clear and accurate data, because we do not have it at our disposal, we do not have all the data at our disposal, so after the change of government, on the first day of Parliament, a committee of inquiry must be set up. And immediately, with the first measure in the new Parliament, the implementations must be stopped until the details are clarified, and until we can take the necessary measures for which, once again, we will have the collateral. We'll have the collateral that was taken from the banks... that they were looking for extra profit on foreign exchange loans, HUF 1000 billion, and what Matolcsy was looking for at the exchange of currency, that HUF 890 billion. It's very important to have another right, we've already talked about it, the right to walk away. It wouldn't cost the government anything to create the right to walk away. That's the part that banks have to take from the risk. It is not possible to allow someone to auction their house, lose everything in the burning world, and then remain a loan of HUF 15-20-30 million. That's what has to be done. We're gonna do it. It takes a change of government, which is why we're going to do everything we can. Finally, let me say that LMP will give 3 minutes of its time frame to the independent. Thank you very much. [[Márta Demeter and Dr. Bernadett Wind applaud.]]
u2017-11-06-200	Thank you. Acknowledge this offer. We have now come to the end of the keynote speeches. State Secretary Pál Völner has applied, so I'm giving him the floor now.
u2017-11-06-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We have also heard some interesting points in the previous speeches, which is why I think it is important that, although repeated, some things are confirmed. One is the suggestion that the government was not taking due care. Perhaps the introduction did not make it clear, within the framework of the decisions of the Luxembourg court, the Curia and the Constitutional Court, and the legislation, the Fundamental Law, had to establish legislation within a defined framework. In order to create a right backwards, contrary to the laws of that time, to the contracts signed, it may be that Mr Hadházy exceeded his ability to read the passage of the contract concerning exchange rate risk, although in his case I am surprised because he has studied and graduated from a veterinary university, if he has exceeded his abilities, then lending must be stopped in Hungary. [[16.10]] So this is basically one of the barriers to economic life in the future, if that's how we relate to things. Not to mention that we are not only talking about legislation, we are also talking about court decisions. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Where's Matolcsy? He didn't come?]] And besides, if we attack the entire existing system, including notaries, courts, etc., where we can talk about the rule of law. So it is important to acknowledge, however much we are suffering from a situation, either at state level or at residential level, that it cannot be solved unlimitedly and practically with some sort of Bolshevik revolutionary heat [[Németh Szilárd István: Now will be the 100th anniversary!]] Because it has incomprehensible consequences, as the past history has shown. The Romanian example has been given. I will look forward to the exit of, let us say, the consequences for Romanian taxpayers of the international lawsuits that banks are bringing against the Romanian state in such a situation. I promise that if they succeed, we will obviously choose this path, but until then it is impossible to put the Hungarian budget, Hungarian public finances and Hungarian taxpayers in such a situation. There have also been all kinds of suggestions from the LMP about what the governing parties did not vote for - if they could shoot back here, that there were some very specific things in our list, where they could have voted for positive measures and did not do so. In practice, it should not be forgotten that in 2010 the whole country was in an excessive deficit procedure, so it had to get out of it. Within the framework of the financial framework and within the framework of the options, we have come to the conclusion that today, in 2017, there is no comparison between the situation of the population, public finances or Hungary as a whole, and that I must safely state in this situation. [[György Szilágyi: How much would the eviction moratorium cost?]] What you said, Madam President, that the ministers are not sitting in here, Prime Minister: unlike what I just said, when we had to vote on these decisive questions that helped foreign exchange creditors, the ministers were sitting here, the Prime Minister was sitting here, they accepted these proposals on the government, they voted in favour, unlike you. I'm gonna skip the list now, and then I'm gonna go back to the list of things they didn't vote for. It was supposed to be a button push, or it was supposed to be sitting on the bench, and then they could have practically helped the people they're talking about right now. It often seems to me, by the way, that what's going on here is that sometimes they want to make it a flea circus. As far as their summer initiative is concerned, we know very well that it was a CEU initiative, which was practically unsustainable for the general public, and they quickly sewed this foreign exchange-credit issue on it, finding nothing better. And today, we're sitting here talking about this thing for real. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Was CEU insufferable to me? Do you remember what I threw at your heads?]] Technically, we must say that the proposals that we would expect and be able to achieve were not said on your part. The idea of setting up a committee is practically something like this in Brussels and in a lot of places. Parliament also has committees, obviously there are forums for substantive proposals where they can be discussed. So, overall, I expect to really hear substantive suggestions here in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Listen back, because this is a scandal!]]
u2017-11-06-202	Thank you. It is now possible to speak to an independent Member. I give the floor to Mrs Szabó Timea, who can present her position for 12 minutes instead of 9 minutes.
u2017-11-06-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We need to help foreign exchange creditors, because it is not possible for a million people to be deceived in one country. It's not gonna be possible for people to pay their repayments for years, and it turns out they owe more than when they started paying back their debts. You can't do that to Hungarians. Orbán said that in 2011. Let's see where we stand now, 6-7 years later, in 2017! Now, in 2017, there are over 600 thousand people in Hungary who are in trouble because of foreign exchange loans, which, if you look at families with 2-3-4, this could affect 1.5-2 million people. So, after seven years, Viktor Orbán's mouth-coat has become that not one million people, but two million people, are still moaning on the burden of foreign exchange loans. This is how the Inhuman Government of Viktor Orbán helps those in trouble while you are stealing the country while Viktor Orbán's stróman, Lőrinc Mészáros, earned 11 million HUF per hour last year. But let's see who the troubled foreign exchange credentialers are who we usually talk about, who you often say are irresponsible in taking on loans! In 2008, a family with one child took out a loan of HUF 7.5 million on their own. Two years later, they had a second child. The initial instalment was 60,000 forints, which later doubled. In 2011, when they could no longer pay the double of the loan-lender, they tried to pay a HUF 180 end-payment by paying off their debt with a HUF loan. The bank did not agree, of course, because only the father had an income, the mother was at home with their one-year-old child. So there's still the foreign exchange loan. Then the forints were made. How did the government of Viktor Orbán help with this forinting? In seven years, the money was paid back to HUF 7.5 million, and after the mandatory HUF 13 million, this family owed more than HUF 13 million. Well, is that what you call help? How big a lie is that, my fellow Members? ! Another example: also in 2008, a middle-aged couple with 16-year-old children bought a flat without self-esteem for 13.4 million forints. The initial payment was 90,000 forints, which again doubled. Because of the constant financial problems, the family fell apart, and the mother couldn't afford to pay the payment on her own. They turned to the asset manager you said they couldn't do, because the bank didn't contribute. Why? Let me quote Gabriella Selmeczi: because only. This is your help. After eight years of repayment, they owed HUF 17 million for a loan of HUF 13 million. Almost double what they hired! [[István Szávay is replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] This is nothing else, my honourable Members, but a tax slavery that your eviscerating, inhuman government has brought to the people of Hungary. But remember, almost a month ago, the old mother was placed under the bridge with her son, born with an open spine, who also suffers from epilepsy, who is incapable of self-sufficiency. How did this government help him? Which of your instruments helped you to survive this crisis? And what does all this mean now? It means you're lying again. They lie about helping people, they lie about being there for the Hungarian people. You're standing next to the Hungarian people! You're on your side, and you're on the banks' side. In addition, they stand next to the banks by saving again on the poorest, the least. We know that they are currently saving money on the medicines of cancer patients, or that they could not give 50 million HUF to the Hungarian Hospice Foundation. And, of course, they also save money on troubled foreign exchange lenders. Interesting, why do we never hear Viktor Orbán save on, say, Lőrincen Mészáros, György Matolcsy or on football subsidies across the border? - because we don't really hear that. Let's look at your lies, which you think was a great help. The government claims that the end of payment helped. Of course, he helped the rich, and he helped you and your friends. The example mentioned above shows precisely that the family with one child could no longer use it, because the bank rejected them. So it's a lie. The government claims that the asset manager is helping those in trouble. Once again, the former example shows that a bank can arbitraryly decide who goes to the asset manager and who doesn't. What kind of help is that? Plus, no family has the right to appeal against the bank's decision? It's not helping, it's a scam. The exchange rate barrier has been delayed, as you have cut this help with mandatory forints. Then finally, the government claims that compulsory forinting helped foreign exchange creditors. I'm asking you, what kind of help is it where after eight years of decent repayments, you still have to pay back the debtors double. It's not helping, it's a scam! What happens now? Obviously, foreign exchange lawsuits are underway, as desperate, troubled people have no choice but to go to court. This is where it comes out of the bag, my fellow Members, about whose side you and Viktor Orbán are really on. In the foreign exchange lawsuits, László Trócsányi, the Minister of Justice of the Government's law office does not represent the Hungarian people, but the banks. You know what I mean? This whole heart government, which only wants to help the Hungarian people, does not take sides with the Hungarian people, but with the banks in these foreign exchange lawsuits. And don't come to me - because I can see that Pál Völner is already taking notes - with the old saying that László Trócsányi is no longer active in his law firm. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is a legitimate question!]] We know that he still owns it, and as a owner, he's interested in making his law firm as profitable as possible. Well, so much for your helpful lies. Anyway, let's take a look at these foreign exchange lawsuits for a moment. On behalf of the Dialogue, I have repeatedly initiated the suspension of all enforcement procedures until next August, at least until the European Court of Justice decides on the issues of Hungarian foreign exchange credit. After all, we know that the Hungarian judges themselves have turned to the Union because they have not been able to decide on a number of disputes. [[16.20]] By the way, it is very interesting that Pál Völner, Erik Bánki and István Hollik also said that the banks did not adequately inform the authentic about the exchange rate risk. Then how come you can't win a single lawsuit on that? Returning to implementation and eviction: not only eviction, but all enforcement procedures must be suspended, because the exact purpose of preventing people from going to the stage of eviction. All forms of execution should therefore be prevented, including monthly deductions, seizure of movable property, and auctioning of property, since we know that even if the eviction procedure is suspended and there is a moratorium, they will still be happy to auction their property, only to put small families on the street later, right, because you do not want any trouble before the election. It's also an infinitely cynical, inhuman, vile measure you've taken. Our proposal to suspend implementation has been swept off without a sound by the fact that a lawsuit can be filed against implementation, said Imre Vas. He told us to be aware of the legal environment. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, let us be aware of the legal environment, because a lawsuit cannot be brought in itself, only with an annulment suit, and this will be further strengthened by you next year. In addition, lawyers are introduced, non-governmental organisations are forbidden to represent those who are in trouble for free, to hire a lawyer. The foam on the cake, which gives a final pat of mercy to the troubled foreign exchange credentials, is that you allow the courts to reject the lawsuits from here on out on the ground that they can also punish these unfortunate, troubled families for up to a million forints if the judge decides that the action is not justified. Tell me, who is in trouble, a small family, who will take the risk of getting a million forints of punishment because he still dares to go to court because he asks for any help from anyone? ! The rules you have introduced have been said by the judges to make these families completely impossible. Here's what a judge recently said in a forum: the poor has never had much chance in court, and now they're taking it away. And another judge said that we're going to have to fine you all the time, while this would make the court more precise, faster, and even if the working conditions weren't improved, it wouldn't be that. And a third said that there would be no lawyer who would file a good lawsuit in the first round. It is clear from these, my fellow Members, that Viktor Orbán and your government are fooling, looting and kicking millions of Hungarians in need of help into the ravine. Of course, they have the brains to raise György Matolcsy's salary to HUF 5 million a month, or to give Matolcsy's mistress, later his wife and the heads of the National Bank virtually zero interest on housing loans. When it comes to helping people, all you do is keep lying. On the other hand, under the leadership of the Prime Minister's candidate Gergely Christmas Dialogue, it offers a real solution to the troubled debtors. Implementation procedures should be suspended immediately until the European Court of Justice decides on the issue of Hungarian foreign exchange lenders. Secondly, due to the lack of real information on exchange rate risk, the additional burden on debtors would be distributed between the debtor, the bank and indirectly between the State in the future. This means that the debtor is charged with the borrowing rate plus 20 per cent, so, for example, if the exchange rate at the time of admission was HUF 160, the debtor will be charged up to HUF 192 and the rest of the exchange rate difference will be transferred by the bank, and the bank will be able to deduct 50 per cent of this burden from its tax in five years. Thus, the debtor assumes 20% of the burden, and the bank and the State provide 40-40 percent of the debtors in distress. With these measures, at least 90 percent of the new debts resulting would make the debts re-payable In addition, it would finally provide a real opportunity for small families to break out of poverty. Thirdly, the National Bank obtained a profit of 140 billion forints with the mandatory forints. The Dialogue would use this amount to help foreign exchange credentials who are in trouble: we would put HUF 40 billion into the asset manager and we would prohibit banks from arbitraryly preventing them from using this tool if they met the condition. The remaining HUF 100 billion would be spent on a rental program so that everyone could finally get decent housing. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear, therefore, that there is a real, sustainable, financially viable solution for foreign exchange lenders, and you just have to want it. Stop lying and accept the suggestions of the Dialogue. Thank you.
u2017-11-06-204	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa first.
u2017-11-06-205	Mr President, Dear House, Since Fidesz-KDNP doesn't dare talk to debtors, they don't dare look them in the eye, so we announced a mini-campaign. Yes, everyone will send you their question and comment via a live way social media site, and you will receive it today, on the one hand, in person and electronically, on the other. But let the questions be: if everything went so well on the Németh Szilárd road and so perfectly repaired Hungary, they raised it from the economic cataclysm, then one of them should answer why 900 thousand enforcement procedures are taking place in Hungary. How do these two work out? What's the point of these two processes? It's quite simply invisible! Mr. Secretary, you've returned your seat, you've stopped calling, thank you very much. It is commendable that you, you, your boss, have been caught here by an accusation, so at the level of the Attorney General, there was a claim that a law firm was protecting certain banks. I think in this case, you should either protect your boss or put him in his place, change this case. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It will happen.]] He's protecting the banks with his silence. We also need to mention that another text said that it was possible to win in court before Fidesz's help, and since then it has not been. So here's the thing: you took away even the small chance you had left of a lot of people that had given you before you fought out the truth, although in my opinion it wouldn't have been their job in the first place, but of a decent lawmaking. Therefore, you should explain how the forinting at market prices has come together for you. Mr Secretary of State has already tried to explain that the Curia and this one have set out a legal framework for you, not a single word of which is true in terms of market forintification. Read me in particular here and now which line, section of the Curia's legal unit told me that you have to forint it at market prices, converting it to the person who hired it at HUF 256! It's a net lie, what they say. One last text I got is gonna make this whole situation clear: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The tanks went out, the banks came in. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's what Torgyán said.]] That is what has happened, and you have assisted in this process, along with your socialist counterparts, for the last 27 years. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-206	I now give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy in two minutes.
u2017-11-06-207	Thank you very much. Here Secretary of State Völner basically demented me with his kind smile, but the problem is that not only me, but hundreds of thousands of millions of people. Tell those people [[Dr. Pál Völner: Nobody fooled anyone.]] Why they didn't read the letter. Either you will tell us when you meet Viktor Orbán, you said that in 2002 Viktor Orbán took out a Swiss franck loan, it is true that he managed to quit by 2011 or tell Máté Kocsis, who took out a loan of HUF 40 million, and then he was able to pay this 40 million with the final repayment! If you are meeting with János Halász, tell him how stupid he was not to read the fine letter, although it is true that he was able to pay back 40 million with the final payment at 180 HUF. Antal Rogán paid 10 million forints back. He was stupid, he didn't read it? All the hundreds of thousands of people were stupid, is that why you're laughing at them, Congressman, Mr. Secretary of State? ! Tell them. Tell them they were the idiots, okay? ! I'll take it, I'll take it. It is not a good thing to be fooled, to be fooled by the banks, and, as I said before, hundreds of thousands of people made a bet that the forint would stagnate, because we believed the politicians, believed you that the euro would be introduced and that the exchange rate would be good. You started talking about Greek salad, and the exchange rate went out in your time. You know very well, but that's what no one believed about politicians. I was fidesz, and I didn't believe you guys would let the exchange rate go without further ado. So you can really think people are stupid, you can think hundreds of thousands of people are stupid, but believe me, we're disappointed and disappointed by the hundreds of thousands of people they've done in this case. Thank you. [[16.30]]
u2017-11-06-208	State Secretary Pál Völner has spoken. He's got the word.
u2017-11-06-209	Thank you very much - just here to address you on several matters. So basically, which law firm is protecting which bank: everyone has the right to legal representation. In addition, the Ministry has repeatedly stated in several communications that, in practice, since the Minister has not conducted a legal practice, it has nothing to do with the activities of the law firm. He can't limit it after his associates are practically taking matters the way they want them to. By the way, I don't know how many cases the banks were successfully protected. What I remember when I read here is that the lawsuits on unfairness were virtually all failed by the banks, and that is why the law was practically effective. What my fellow Member Hadházy said, and I ask myself, I have not fooled any man who has taken such credit. Practically everyone reads the contract, really trusting in their own wisdom or expectations, benevolently thought that the exchange rate would not change. I began my speech at this item on the agenda by saying that it was actually the previous socialist-liberal government that conducted an economic policy that broke down the forint, which served the country, which generated a government deficit, debt, and all of this made the country defenceless; they made the forint defenceless, and decided on the exchange rate and deepened this crisis. And I also said that they're not here because they don't want to take that responsibility, and you should be arguing with them. We may, of course, have been able to do more, better, better in this matter, but we see that the country's opportunities, within the framework of the law, have been passed so far. And I also mentioned in my previous speech that if someone can prove that someone else is working, there is indeed a better solution and that there is no retaliation for those states, for those budgets, then it is obvious that Hungary will follow the example. But if we look at who's in Europe today, who has done the most, who has been able to turn foreign exchange loans into national... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Hungary is the first place on this issue. Technically, I met a foreign delegation who came to study the Hungarian model. This confirms my position on this issue. The fact that you're not informed is not my fault. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-210	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Statement by each of its representatives will now take place, as announced in writing by the factions. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, Deputy Group Leader.
u2017-11-06-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I thought that today's political debate would not be easy, because there are a few months, maybe five months until the elections, maybe six, depending on whether the President of the Republic will choose a date in May or April. But it seems to me that the opposition has made quite a move, because of this important debate that interests citizens, by the way, has made nothing more than an election rally, and it all seemed to me that it had a common purpose on the part of the opposition to blasphemy the current government, to insult people in person. Every step of the government's action will be completely desecrated, and it will create a sense of scandal that was promised in the summer. In here, Bernadett Szél himself promised this in the summer with Zsolt Molnár, MSZP, the National Security Committee called me, but then it didn't take place at its meeting, that it would be in every committee and Parliament's horseshoe, this accountability, yelling, scandal, because it will serve their interests. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: It's all lies, lies, as always!]] Now, this has been achieved in full today. For me, as a voter, an interesting question is who will be your Prime Minister's candidate. Gábor Vona, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Bernadett Wind, Ákos Hadházy, or who's going to put this together? Because as many as there were, in this hatred and scandal they were able to come to an extraordinary agreement here, so this message came through well, but because of what you would do, and here we have heard that even the name of Gergely Christmas came up on the part of the independents, whose program are you going to carry out? Well, it's not gonna be easy, I gotta say, but maybe that's all you need to deal with. Let me respond to a few things - three cases. This is one of the opportunities introduced in 2001 for Hungarian citizens and companies to obtain foreign currency-based credit. This was then the expansion of the credit market, and it was not about pushing on Hungarian citizens; we press on everyone, happy-happy, who would like to buy a flat or build a house, want to solve his future, press on this kind of lending. This was also clearly shown by the size, number and size of this loan in HUF at the time. On the other hand, it was an obligation, because at that time we were still hoping to find an appropriate target date for the euro, and one of the conditions for joining the euro was the realisation of loans in euro. So I think we should talk about the facts, not - I'm gonna say it again - make a scandal of lying to the right and to the left. Auctions and recoverys, I don't know how many words have been used for this. But that there would be 900 thousand in Hungary today, this is absolutely amazing, in a thank-you relationship with the credit system we are talking about, because most of these measures concern companies, and everything that is possible is in it. By the way, at European level, this is a low number, I would like to say, but you are fully aware of this, but here again we need to soften up such larger and larger numbers, in case the smell of scandal becomes greater. The eviction moratorium has been going on for seven years. Every year we order an eviction moratorium. Lately, this year, I think we may have voted against with two votes a week ago. Thank you, of course, to the opposition, and we are glad that they have come to their senses on this issue, because not everyone has voted for it recently, in a completely incomprehensible way. But I think the people who didn't do that will have to account for that. There are a hundred words at the end: I think that today those who are the most responsible are the ones who shout the most, who have to account for the great filth - I agree with that - and with the great villainy that people were pushed into this whole trap a few years ago, into this whole currency loan trap. I wouldn't say people fell for it. They were literally pushed into it. Well, in 2003, when preferential housing loans were stopped, it was an economic environment that was not the only thing that pushed people in the direction of not borrowing forints. Well, where were the interest rates on the forint loan? ! So no normal market credit was able to be taken on a HUF basis by people, and then this was offered to them there to do so, low interest rates and so on. And I agree, they weren't informed of what was expected. So no one got the proper information. It's a small letter, as many people say; the fine prints. But everyone could have picked me up. The texts came, the phones came, the banks knocked on the doors. It could be recorded for everything, not just real estate, Egyptian roads, television commercials. Where was the bank supervisor at this hour? Where have you been? Well, someone should also explain to someone why Károly Szász was beaten bloody on June 16, 2013. What kind of environment did we live in? How did the state get in debt? How did the IMF and the World Bank all come to help out? How did the banks end up in the hands of almost a hundred percent of them abroad? There's a whole system on line. In the meantime, the state was indebted, entirely. What percentage of public debt was in 2002? The government debt was 56 percent. What's that gonna be for 2010? The government debt went above 80 percent. How was the GDP-related performance, so the current account deficit? When they launched it against us... did they launch it? Well, they didn't start anything against us, because nothing happened as long as there were governments that served practically Brussels and the World Bank and the IMF. [[16.40]] However, the previous governments were able to make it possible that the economic environment had also been transformed into such a way that it was simply impossible, economically, politically or in any way, to make appropriate decisions. People, on the other hand, were informed at all, or misinformed, or not told. By 2008, this would have had its benefits if we looked at the other villainy as the increase in overhead costs. In 2008, when the price of electricity and gas fell on the stock exchange, when people who had nothing to do with gas and electricity were already involved in the service, prices increased the most with us. So everything pointed in the direction of taking every penny out of people's pockets. Yeah, that was a hell of a rascal. In 2010, after the change of government, the team received two thirds. Here's where I deny what the good guys say. He was clearly involved in our program, and we made it very clear in opposition. [[György Szilágyi: Fidesz only!]] that we will manage both public debt and government debt and people's debt. We need to keep the best possible solutions. We, in agreement with what the Secretary of State said, had to establish a system for the breakdown of retail foreign exchange credit where much had to be taken into account. The most important thing was that we had to break off with the socioliberal position that the banks were right in everything and that they had the freedom to do everything. The banks had to side with the people. It was a very important and I think it was a very brave decision. If you look at the political chronology of 2010-11, the environment in which we all had to do this, then I think you should acknowledge that. We had to eliminate a dominant position; not only the dominant position of banks vis-à-vis people, but also the dominant position vis-à-vis Hungary, which did not want to release us from this austerity. No one applauded these decisions at all, and steps had to be taken. On the other hand, it had to be protected in any way that this would go under the rule of law. It is no coincidence that in 2014, we waited for the decision of both the Luxembourg court, the European Court of Justice, the Constitutional Court and the Curia on how to deal with the exchange rate risk. That wasn't a coincidence at all. But in the meantime, the bank structure had already been redesigned, and it was moving slowly. The change of ownership took place in Hungary, which we were looking forward to, so that Hungarian banks could finally lend to the Hungarian economy. On this basis, it was possible to take all the other steps, which, by the way, is extremely successful. Final payout helped 170,000 people. From the beginning, we had to help the people who could. According to the Pareto principle, if I bring you help, if I give you... [[Noise, interference from Jobbik's benches.]] Well, listen to me. So if I give you the money where they can add money, I can get them out of the system. We took out 170,000 people with their own help. Let us not forget that 370 billion has been repaid. That turned into another loan for 313 billion. But that's been done on a completely different basis and not on a currency basis. I was mayor of Csepel then, and we set up a hundred million-dollar fund for our own employees, so that those who apply for it could get money to repay their debt. We were able to help 52 people. Fifty-two! I know it's a small number, but it's 52 families, 52 people, and a simple municipal measure. The exchange rate barrier and all other measures, the National Asset Manager, all pointed in this direction to get as many people out of it as possible. Another very important part of this is that we wanted to not only solve the issue in the present, but also send a message to the future. So we said at the very end when we completely liquidated this lending system - by the beginning of 2017, from 73 percent of all loans today, from 73 percent to 1 percent, if I know the numbers, but it may be less than 1 percent - so we said that banks can't do this again. Today, Hungarian legislation does not allow banks to do so. Fair banking legislation, the new lending rules, no longer allow banks to abuse their dominant position. They're stronger now than ordinary citizens, no one's arguing that. But they can't do it, because legislation prevents them from doing it. To look down completely at the fact that we have successfully solved this problem in 1 million out of 100,000 loans in 50,000, I do not think we should. Those who remain in the system are still trapped within the framework of the rule of law, and I think they can always, in any way, count on the state's help. Now we have been able to make a joint decision in Parliament on the moratorium on eviction, and then we need to join forces, put aside all kinds of electoral considerations and all other aspects, thinking together in this situation, so that we can still help the 50,000 people who are stuck in this system and want to pay back, they have the intention to settle the debt they have taken. I think that's what today was supposed to do. I think that we need to move in this direction, so that people can count on the help of Parliament, the help of all the Members of Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-212	Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has indicated his wish to speak to him. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, To continue with the previous line of thought, allow me to approach this issue from a social point of view, in addition to what the state has been able to provide at the end of the loan, at the exchange rate barrier, at the National Asset Manager, at bank settlement, at the forinting of mortgages, consumer loans and at the introduction of family bankruptcy protection for people who are in a difficult situation either because of the taking up of foreign currency loans or in other ways socially. The government introduced a new form of support, initially with an amount of HUF 30 billion, which is obviously constantly rising, called municipal support. The point of this is that while the state grants so-called income support, if someone has less income than they can make a living, they are given directly by the state through the district office system, government offices. At the same time, spending compensatory subsidies are granted to the municipalities, which we provide to them, and then, since they are better acquainted with local relations, they distribute them and give them to those who need such support for housing, livelihoods or other purposes. This HUF 30 billion was a new line of support, which was increased by HUF 5 billion, precisely so that an even higher amount of support could be achieved in settlements in the most difficult situation. Thus, the municipalities were given the opportunity to, knowing the local situation of the families, provide them with the support they need to maintain housing. If we look at the housing security situation of those in the most difficult situation in Hungary, we can conclude that the number of people affected by the debt repayment or housing deficit decreased by more than a quarter compared to 2012. At the same time, the proportion of people unable to heat their homes decreased from 26 percent to 16 percent. Thus, the number of people who were behind in any way with credit, rent, rent, or heating bills has fallen with joy. This means general expenditure on housing, which has already been discussed here in Parliament today. In Hungary, the level of expenditure on housing is already below the EU average. This is 21.5 percent in Hungary and 22.5 percent in the EU average. An average European citizen spends more on housing from all his income than a Hungarian citizen. This is due, among other things, to measures to save foreign exchange creditors and to the reduction of the rent. In the last seven years, the so-called overcrowding rate has also decreased from 47 to 40 percent in Hungary. Thus, housing conditions in Hungary are improving in a sustainable way. The cost of heating is around 25 percent lower, while the most deprived are free of firewood or coal in more than 2 thousand Hungarian settlements. [[16.50]] Overall, we eased the fees by HUF 909 billion of people's housing costs, not by costing Hungarian taxpayers money, but by making so much less profit to foreign multinational companies, so this HUF 909 billion is in Hungarian people's pockets, and it obviously meant the most to the most difficult people. Anyone who has to pay a foreign currency loan or a forint loan obviously doubles that the other fees are that much lower. In the framework of the VAT reduction programme, special attention has also been paid to facilitating access to housing for families. In this context, the VAT on new dwellings decreased from 27 per cent to 5 per cent from 1 January 2016. We have already talked about the National Asset Manager, which buys homes for families in distress, who are socially difficult and rents them for an indefinite period of time. This was another preferential measure by the government next to the Ocsai residential park, which enabled us to prove that the state was able to solve the housing of people in difficulty. Therefore, we do not have to face a mass social problem, nor do we have to deal effectively with the problems of housing for the banks and for everyone. The National Asset Manager has accepted 41,000 offers, 32 386 properties have already been purchased. This year, until 31 August, 4638 additional offerings were received. Based on the number of declarations of intent received, about 150,000 of our countrymen are housed through the National Asset Manager. Implementation procedures are interrupted and these people are provided with housing. The state has always replaced or increased the resources of the asset manager so that a social crisis does not arise from the fact that people are unable to solve their housing in bulk. What shows the success of the construction is that we were able to pay and redeem HUF 191 billion of debt to HUF 124 billion of budgetary resources, so there is less that debtors have to pay - 191 billion, and the state had to contribute 124 billion to this. An average mortgage that was triggered by this was 9 million forints. But this has shown, as in the case of the end repayment, that if the state tries to help people in trouble with a good construction, there are additional resources there, or a surplus can be released from the loan. For this reason, a much larger social problem has been solved than the amount of the specific amount that the government has transferred from the budget for this purpose. Thus, in recent years, we have sought to provide housing for everyone, whether with increasing wages, reduced tax charges, or with social benefits such as these, or in kind, with a relatively low rental fee of HUF 10 900 on average. The government will continue to work for foreign exchange credentials, forint credentials and all the people in trouble who are working together, who really want to break out of this difficult situation, and will therefore make efforts, in any case, to provide additional discounts and help. Anyone who is socially dependent today in Hungary, but wants to work and move forward, can count on the Hungarian government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-214	State Secretary Zsolt Szabó indicated his intention to comment. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-06-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Continuing with the thoughts of my fellow State Secretary, I would also like to give you some very accurate information about the National Asset Manager at the end of September. On the one hand, this domestic protection measure is a determining element of the question of foreign exchange creditors, since the asset manager himself, managed by the Ministry of National Development, is helping the property owners who, due to housing and other problems, could not ensure the continued repayment of their mortgage and were in any event socially dependent. Property offered to the Hungarian State with the assistance of creditor banks will be purchased by the asset manager himself and rented to the original owners, their families, for an indefinite period of time, if they believe that this step is absolutely necessary. The asset manager, as my fellow Member has just mentioned, will buy 36,000 more real estate by 2018. This number of September 30, 2017 was exactly 41 437 real estate. 4,000 properties were rejected from the submitted intentions, which were generally non-recoverable property due to technical content or for some other reason. In accordance with the legal requirements, 33 046 properties have so far been financially settled on the basis of declarations of intent. Based on the number of declarations of intent received, we were able to solve the housing of nearly 150,000 people with this program. The majority of the properties are located in the eastern part of the country, including Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, but there are also a significant number of properties in Pest county. About 28 percent of all properties offered from the Transdanubian counties have arrived. 6 percent of the properties were offered from Budapest and 2 percent from the agglomeration around Budapest. He lives in a town with 15 percent county rights, who offered their property, 40 percent in a rural town and 37 percent in other towns, villages and villages. 26 percent of the properties received are condominiums, and 74 percent are residential houses and family houses. The sales value of the real estate was an interesting number: at the time of the conclusion of the mortgage loan contract it was HUF 8.55 million, whereas the average purchase price for the real estate purchased by the asset manager was HUF 3.78 million. This translates to the fact that until 30 September, HUF 136,9 billion of government funds were replaced by HUF 127 billion of mortgage debt. This claim payment has been waived by the residents participating in the programme. In the case of property included in the asset manager's programme, the company itself issued a credit institution claim of HUF 2.34 with budget money. Credit lenders included in the programme have been relieved of a significant burden, as my fellow Member has said, on average about HUF 9 million of debt has been exempted from debt repayment. A monthly rate of rent was established from the value of the property at the time of the borrowing, as laid down by law. Perhaps two main numbers, one: the renters in Ocsa pay an average of HUF 18 329 per month, while in other properties HUF 10 879. This means that this rent is already eligible and payable in the case of debtors and can be settled financially. This is proven by the fact that HUF 8.96 billion has been billed for HUF 8.5 billion, which is almost 95 percent. There's a backup property, right now. I'm thinking of empty apartments in the assets management of the National Asset Manager in this case. Reserve real estate category is also provided that the lease contract has been terminated for the former remaining residential property, so the residents of it have moved away. Reserve properties include housing properties constructed, vacant or vacant in the Ócsa; or state-owned residential properties not in use, which have been placed in the management of NET's property and are subject to a tender for use in the programme. These real estates are used by the asset manager for rental, by way of a tender. For the needs of reserve properties, first and foremost, those who participate in the asset management programme, but also families who can use it socially, can also register. Under the government decree, the asset manager uses available reserve properties by tender. Here, it also charges the placement of tenants of properties temporarily or permanently empty for technical reasons, and provides them with additional housing. The exploitation of real estate is continuous, but depends on how much is empty in a given month, how much is suitable for housing and available. [[17.00]] What is still perhaps very important: between February 14th and September 17th 130 properties were put out for tender. In all cases, the application was successful and the asset management company was able to find a tenant. In connection with properties in Ocsa, perhaps 98 percent of them are currently inhabited by tenants, with only 2 real estate that is currently being exploited. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The things I've told you, these are the net facts, the numbers that I think you can't argue with. The success of the programme itself is certainly assured, and the government has taken a very strong step to help mortgaged families, the positive response and positive thinking of many families in practical operational life are also indicated. This is definitely a successful program. We would like to continue this programme with regard to the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue the debate. Mr Márton Gyöngyösi is coming from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very revealing that the Hungarian Socialist Party does not participate in the current debate; this can also be a recognition of responsibility; it is very revealing that the Hungarian Socialist Party does not really have anything to say on the issue of which Hungarian society is most concerned and affected, so they are quasi-subscribed from the political competition or from the dialogue between political parties. The responsibility of the MSZP for the development of foreign exchange loans has been mentioned here several times, but several of my fellow Members have already referred to the fact that basically the avalanche was initiated by the 2011 decision by which the first Orbán government allowed banks to make unilateral changes to the contract, and thus Fidesz was clearly on the side of the financial sector, the banks. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát spoke for a long time, bringing the problem of foreign exchange loans to the plenary session almost every week, presenting Jobbik's proposals on a regular basis. He explained why the exchange rate barrier had not been a solution to this problem; he gave five years' time to the foreign exchange lenders, but at present the credit burden on those who are unable to pay loans. The National Asset Manager also did not provide a solution to this issue, and the introduction of the National Asset Management institution also allowed the bank to be self-indulgent, as the property ownership is transferred to the banks and thus provides the credible to the banks' self-consciousness. It doesn't help that you're trying to sell this as a kind of rental program. We have also heard a lot about final repayment, and many of my fellow Members have said that this is not just a solution to this problem, but why it is unfair that some people can convert their credit at a rate of HUF 180, and some people can convert it at a rate of HUF 256. This is also an arrangement implemented by the Government in consultation with the Banking Association, the banks, and not with foreign exchange lenders. In the meantime, the execution takes place, evictions take place, evicting people, taking the roof and the house above the heads of people who have already paid back several times the original loan. And here you are talking about how the problem has been solved and checked, as Erik Bánki referred to in his speech as a speaker. Several people here have talked about how you have the banks accounted for, and justice has been given to the foreign exchange victims, while you know very well that the banking system, the Banking Association, has been dealt with, and have given no justice to the foreign exchange crooks, the currency credo. And as has already been said here in the plenary Chamber, the Minister of Justice, who is interested in a law firm, has been on the side of the banks in white and black, representing the interests of the banks in court negotiations, while the government is consulting everyone, speaking to everyone, but not to the injured, not to the civilians who represent the credit victims, and who stand up for their interests, for their justice. And while the mechanisms for the administration of justice in the neighbouring countries have already moved in the direction of paying at the exchange rate at the time of admission, it is explicitly stated that the banks did not provide the necessary information on foreign exchange credit at the time of admission, and therefore, contrary to the banks, justice is being given to those who have suffered foreign exchange damage, while in Hungary the judiciary is also on the bank's side, not to the foreign exchange damage. I would like to, since it has not really been said here - more people have talked about the background of the problem, its history, we have talked a lot about responsibility, we have also talked a lot about the settlement that Fidesz has sabotaged, the lack of a solution, but one thing has not yet been mentioned: this is how Hungarian society has come to suffer such an amazing social problem, cataclysm and disaster three decades after the change of regime. There is one reason for this: this problem has its root, which for some reason no one wants to talk about, the surface is scratched exclusively. In order to bring about this problem of foreign exchange credit, the tragedy of the foreign exchange victims, of course, we needed the unscrupulous banks, which the current Hungarian governments forced on the victims, the foreign exchange lenders and the taxpayers. However, in order for this to happen, we also needed an economic policy that the different governments in this country have done to each other in four-year cycles for 27 years. The result of this economic policy is that today the majority of Hungarian society in Hungary is unable to raise capital, make savings in order to buy their own apartments, buy cars, or, where appropriate, because you have sunk Hungarian society to this point - even for consumption, for everyday shopping, there are cases where Hungarian people had to beat themselves into consumer loans. In order for the problem of those who have suffered foreign exchange credit to come up, we needed unscrupulous banks, and we needed your perfectly irresponsible economic policy, which has not been broken up to this day. Here Szilárd Németh talked about how you fought with the banks and how you fought with the IMF, the IMF, the World Bank, the European Union and the major financial institutions. Not only have you not fought with these institutions, but you are still implementing their programme when you are proclaiming economic policy based on cheap labour to foreign investors and you are saying that here you are delivering the Hungarian society, the workforce, the Hungarian workers. You are not on their side, but on the side of capitalists, on the side of financial institutions and on the side of investors, not on the side of Hungarian workers. This led to the departure of the entire Hungarian society on the path of debauchery and demise, leading directly to the Hungarian people being forced into debt and debt. Szilárd Németh says that your programme included how you would get the Hungarian state out of debt, the municipalities from loans, and the Hungarian people out of foreign exchange loans. You are doing nothing, you have also done a sabotage in terms of solutions, while continuing the same economic policy that has brought us here in three decades. [[17.10]] And they can do anything, they can trick around here with government debt, they can trick around here with local government loans, and they can trick around with foreign exchange loans. However, until this economic policy changes, even if you carve a forint of credit from the municipalities, whether from public debt or from loans from foreign exchange victims, you will re-create multiples of these loans, because you have done nothing in the last seven years, you are implementing the Bank's programme, you are implementing the International Monetary Fund's programme, while you are on the surface sending messages to the financial institutions. Don't tilt your head, don't humming, Mr. Secretary. You know exactly what we're talking about. Until you proclaim a new economic policy in this country, until you side with the Hungarian workers, until you can earn a living from honest work in this country, and hundreds of thousands of people leave this country as a result of your economic policy, this country is sinking down. So please take the problem of foreign exchange loans seriously, do not say that this problem has been checked, because they have not yet started and declare an economic policy for this country - they have five months left - which will not recreate this problem, but solve it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Gergely Gaal. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-219	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Instead of some of my opposition fellow Members experiencing revolutionary heat and government-changing frustration, I think that it is also worth discussing calmly and calmly on this issue. And, as I have already heard from the pro-government speeches, the government's measures in recent years have resulted in a solution of at least 90 percent of the over one million foreign currency credit contracts. So now we can't talk about a crowd problem like we did a few years ago. The housing of these people has been solved. Although the government did not want to repay these people's debts for them, it wanted to settle their situation, and it did so for 95 percent of them. I don't think this had to be taken away. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, We, Christian Democrats, are in a favourable position to promote our consistent opinion-forming on most political issues, a stable world view, which is traditionally and still valid by our historic predecessors. This is how we are with the question of foreign exchange lending affecting the lives of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. Here we are faced with an issue that is not unique in the history of Western democracies, and that the burden left by the so-called left-wing governments must be cleaned up by a civil conservative responsible government. We have seen the recipe several times: according to the socialist logic experienced since the Kádár system, it is necessary to finance distribution policy through loans, and then it is necessary to take responsibility for the future of the nation to repair the damage caused and to repay the loans raised. In this situation, socialist irresponsible governance between 2002 and 2010 placed not only public finances but also the household of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. Now, of course, it's understandable that they're not here when we talk about this. At the same time, it was not easy to resolve the situation with the increase in the volume of foreign exchange loans, as it was necessary to comply with the principles of solidarity, aid for those in distress, and of the state measure to encourage responsible citizen thinking. Dear House, The government's measures, the eviction moratorium, the exchange rate barrier, the possibility of end-payment, the establishment of the National Asset Manager helped some 1.5 million foreign exchange lenders. I would also like to mention the proposals put forward by KDNP, in addition to the measures already described in detail by my fellow pro-government Members. One is family bankruptcy. The 2015 CV on the debt settlement of natural persons. Act adopted by Parliament on 30 June 2015 and entered into force on 1 September 2015. The public debt relief toolkit lacked a procedure for debt settlement for private individuals, which is both capable of restoring solvency and, on the other hand, of ensuring protection for individuals and families already in a debt trap, against the rivalry of creditors that is detrimental to the debtor. The debt settlement procedure can help to solve problems for families in difficulty in payment, in particular for creditors, if they have at least a minimum of assets and a capacity to repay. Following the adoption of the law, until its entry into force, the government adopted dozens of laws implementing the law. He set up the Family Bank Protection Service, the central body of which is the department of the Justice Office and its territorial bodies are the departments of the metropolitan and county government offices. In the meantime, family estate managers have been trained, and the necessary IT systems have been set up. Information on this: based on data from the debt settlement register of natural persons, a total of 1056 debt settlement procedures have been initiated by 30 October 2017, of which 921 procedures are ongoing. A total of 2714 persons were involved in the ongoing proceedings, of which 2388 were assisted. KDNP's proposals include the amendment of the law on judicial enforcement; the estimate that residential property should be sold at least in value, thus avoiding sales at too low prices, as well as the recovery of outstanding claims to the greatest extent possible. The amendment ensures that, in the course of the enforcement procedure for the recovery of contractual claims with the consumer, a valid purchase offer can be made at least at the starting price for the sale of residential property, i.e. on an estimate, instead of 70 per cent of the starting price. I would also like to mention the other proposal of KDNP, the extension of the eviction moratorium until 30 April 2018. Ladies and gentlemen. A responsible Hungarian government must protect the Hungarian people and draw the attention of the Hungarian people to the dangers they face. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Good idea!]] and a responsible Hungarian opposition must be a partner in this. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: Get started!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are here to discuss the situation of those with foreign exchange credit and foreign exchange loan problems. It is bold and clear that the foreign exchange credit problem in Hungary today is one of the most serious social problems, if not the most serious, since it has a negative impact on almost all areas of socio-economic life. In Hungary, 1 million 960 thousand foreign exchange loans were concluded. Out of these concluded loan agreements, half a million credit contracts were real estate mortgage-backed contracts, 700 thousand contracts for motor vehicles, and 600 thousand contracts were personal credit contracts. It can be seen from the contract book listed that if we project these contracts to families and take the family into account with two people, then it is immediately apparent that four million Hungarians have been affected by the problem of foreign exchange credit. The main problem with foreign exchange credit contracts is that the payment burden on the transactions paid by banks in HUF has now tripled after the signature of the foreign exchange contract. In the courts, lawsuits for foreign exchange credit contracts are filed in bulk because people are no longer able to pay this huge repayment that banks have put on people. Financial institutions ask for back three times the amount of foreign currency loans covered by the loan agreement. Such a huge repayment burden was not known to consumers at the time of the conclusion of the contracts, even at a hypothetical level, despite the fact that the banks were aware of the exchange rate increase that the franc of Forint-Swiss had made in the previous twenty years. [[17.20]] In view of the increase in the exchange rate of the forint-Swiss franc, it can be seen that the Swiss franc loan with a 20-year maturity could be expected to have a profit of 813 per cent from the HUF-Swiss franc's increase from the date of the contract, with a profit of 712 per cent in 2006, 557 per cent in 2007 and 426 per cent in 2008. The banks did not inform the people entering into the foreign exchange credit contract that the bank had no currency at the time of the contract behind the loan. Regarding this fact, I quote the statement by Mr Levente, Secretary-General of the Banking Association: as is well known, banks had forint deposits and did not have Swiss francs, so the forint deposit had to be turned into Swiss francs in some way. It's called SWAP, a foreign exchange time deal that has a cost. The banks did not inform the Hungarian people who concluded the contract that the bank actually had them sign an investment contract with almost unlimited risk. It can be said that the banking, intentionally misleading information made the persons who signed the contract of consumption mistaken and held them wrong. The people signing the contract signed the contracts without real knowledge of the actual risk, and thus walked into the trap that led to the death of many people, the destruction of families, the marching of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians abroad. The National Assembly or the current government did not actually save foreign exchange creditors by using the so-called foreign exchange rescue laws, because the person involved in the foreign exchange contract had almost the same payment burden after the foreign exchange rescue laws were passed as before the foreign exchange rescue laws were passed. The banks extorted almost the same extra profit from the Hungarian people with interest and expenses on forinting as if they were counting in foreign currency. Under the so-called foreign exchange saving laws, the currency that did not exist behind the contracts was paid out, and the Hungarian people's deception became institutionalized at the legal level with the foreign exchange saving laws. In Hungary, due to the burden of foreign exchange lending, since the start of foreign exchange lending, thousands of people have fled to suicide as a result of an unsolvable payment burden, 40 percent of vascular and cancer diseases are due to diseases related to foreign exchange loans, the financial difficulties, the psychological problems that started from here. It is now a well-known fact, even before you, that the fact that all foreign exchange loans concluded by financial institutions in Hungary are invalid due to a conflict of laws. All consumer foreign exchange loans are contrary to the provisions of the European Union Consumer Protection Directive. You remember that Hungary is a member of the European Union. You recall that the law of the European Union has priority over the national legislation of the Member States. You recall that the 2004 XXX. The Treaty of Accession is set out in Annex 1 to Law No 53 and Article 54 of which provides that Hungary has become the addressee of the Directives from the time it becomes a member of the Union and is obliged to take all measures to transpose and effectively implement the Directives. I would like to draw attention to the fact that many people have gone abroad to help their family members who have stayed home to repay foreign currency loans. I would like to point out that it follows from the principle of primacy of EU law that, even after the transposition of Directive 93/13/EEC into domestic law, Hungarian legislation should be applied in accordance with the Directive and the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning its interpretation, in the light of the intention to harmonise legislation. I would like to point out that, in assessing the legal nature of the foreign currency loan lease agreements, the Curia 6/2013.PE and the 1/2016.PE decisions infringe the rules of consumer conduct laid down by the law of the European Union, as referred to in Article E (3) of the Fundamental Law. It is the duty of the Government of Hungary at all times to comply with the commitments of the Member States resulting from the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The duty of the Government of Hungary to take account of the fact that most of the Hungarian citizens leaving Hungary and seeking work abroad were forced to leave Hungary precisely because they could no longer pay the burden arising from the current Hungarian wages on foreign exchange loans to the financial institution. The Government of Hungary is responsible for Hungarian citizens, as the current government of Hungary spends taxes on Hungarian taxpayers from budget expenditure. In order to protect the Hungarian people, the responsible government of Hungary has an obligation to take immediate measures to finalise foreign exchange loans, to terminate and abolish judicial enforcement procedures on the basis of foreign exchange loans. The Parliament could settle the serious social situation in the foreign currency credit area with the following legislation for the benefit of consumers. I'll list this in six points. The National Assembly adopts the law that (1) as a result of the lack of foreign currency at the time of the conclusion of the consumer's foreign exchange contracts between 2004-2014, it is considered to be a HUF contract; (2) under the forints contracts, the consumer has only...
u2017-11-06-222	Excuse me, Congressman, I am going to give this time back, but I would like to draw the attention of our lovely guest lady sitting in the gallery to the fact that guests sitting in the gallery are not allowed to express any opinion. The Parliamentary Act says 55. § 2 of the Act provides that it is obliged to refrain from any form of expression. If you offend me, I must have you removed from the gallery. I wouldn't want to do that, so I'm calling your attention. Thank you. Go on, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-223	We didn't notice him in the lines here. And I think...
u2017-11-06-224	It's okay, Congressman, I can sense it.
u2017-11-06-225	Excuse me, Mr. President. I would like to draw the attention of all my fellow Members that this is a problem, and it has been said here by one of my fellow Members that this must be resolved calmly and moderately, that it should not be emotional, that people should not be carried away by passion; indeed, these people, who have been involved in this for years, have been very difficult to hide these things under cover in many cases, but, of course, this would not refer to the clause on house rules. So I would repeat point 2: under HUF contracts, the consumer only has to repay the principal contractual amount to the financial institution. 3. In addition to the contractual principal, the financial institution may not claim funds from the debtor under any other heading. 4. Under a consumer foreign exchange contract, judicial enforcement against the debtor cannot be conducted. 5. All executions against foreign exchange taxpayers will be terminated by this law. 6. The assets already lost through executions due to the default of contracts may be returned to consumers or, in the event of their inability, claim fair compensation. If the situation of the people involved in foreign exchange credit contracts is not properly settled, the process of destroying and disintegrating Hungarian families will continue and further suicides may occur. I would like to read to you a letter from Tímea Balogh, who wrote to us the other day: "The Fidesz-KDNP, I see you've given up on saving foreign exchange credentials, they're dealing only with migrants and the EU, not us anymore. Please press for the introduction of the right to walk to foreign exchange lenders on debate day. For my part, after the auction, a debt of HUF 22 million was shown, which is dishonest and unpayable. My whole youth and childbirth has gone to this foreign exchange circus. On 23 October, Viktor Orbán told the House of Terror that everything that was and everything that could have been was taken away. He was thinking about '56, but he didn't think it was the same thing now, everything is taken away by the enforcer, our future as well. Please mention this to him. I did this in front of the public of the National Assembly. In the next few minutes, I would like to talk about secured foreign currency loans, because I think it is not something that can be missed. [[17 .30]] Last year, in connection with Zsolt Falus' enforcement suit against UniCredit Bank, a representative of the Bank Trap Association, we learned that foreign exchange loans may be backed up by insurance contracts which, in the event of the collapse of the loans, compensated the bank for the loss. Despite the fact that such legal relationships should in principle be included in foreign exchange credit contracts, there is no evidence of such a condition. In a lawsuit at the Metropolitan Court, it was also proven that such backup insurance actually exists. A representative of AIG Europe Limited quoted as a witness acknowledged that he had previously concluded such a contract with OTP Bank Zrt., which was a financial loss insurance policy where OTP was insured. The insurance event was that the bank had been proven to have suffered losses, regardless of the reason for the insolvency of the debtor. By the way, the credit agreement was covered and part of the loss was paid. AIG has contracted with OTP at stock level, their representative also said that there are not many players in the insurance market of this kind. If requested by contract number, they can tell whether the bank has reported claims for a given customer, but because of the group payment they cannot tell how much the bank has calculated for the given contract. But the bank obviously knows that. According to the defendant's OTP representative, this was a rare construction. According to the congressman, only part of the housing loan was secured, but as you can see, such insurances existed. All of this is a factor in the current currency-credited Calvary, which has now been almost ten years, which should once again bring the government back to the banks, the Mansion and the MNB for review. It is precisely that banks often demand sums of money in respect of the already abused debts that insurance companies have already received. It would be necessary to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry just in order to properly identify such background agreements, which, if it is not implemented in this term, should be among the number one actions of a new Parliament. The LMP will do everything in its power to make an exact determination of the extent of bank abuse within this type of committee. I would like to talk about the foreign exchange credit lawsuits that have taken place before the European Court of Justice. They cannot sit quietly on their laurels because they have solved problems for foreign exchange lenders, because there are several lawsuits pending at the Court of Justice of the European Union which dissect the conditions for bearing the exchange rate risk and the sharing thereof; for example, C-186/16. In this case, on the basis of a Romanian foreign exchange-credited submission, it was born in September 2017, but could also have many Hungarian implications. In the main proceedings, the petitioner sued the Romanian bank because, at the time the contracts were concluded, the bank provided partial information on the product by stressing only the benefits of this product to the borrowers, but did not explain the potential risks and the likelihood of the risks occurring. According to the borrowers, the contested condition should be considered unfair in the light of this practice of the bank. The Court of Appeal in Oradea expected an answer as to the extent to which the bank is obliged to inform customers of the exchange rate risks inherent in the foreign currency loan. These are also very important questions for Hungarian banking behaviour. The EU Court of Justice held that the information should not only cover the possibility of the currency of the loan being valued or devalued, but also the effects that the volatility of the currency of the loan and the increase in the interest rate of that currency may have on the instalments. The EU Court of Justice has pointed out that, if the bank has failed to comply with this obligation and the unfair nature of the contested condition can therefore be examined, it is for the international court to assess whether, on the one hand, the bank has respected the requirement of good faith and, on the other hand, whether there is significant inequality between the parties to the contract. The assessment shall be carried out in relation to the date of conclusion of the contract concerned and in particular with regard to the banks' expertise and knowledge of potential exchange rate fluctuations and the risks inherent in the foreign currency loan. In this respect, the court points out that a contractual condition may include an inequality between the parties which becomes apparent only in the performance of the contract. In our view, in the judgment in question, a decision of a weight has been taken concerning the obligation to examine the effects of potentially unequal contractual terms on the exchange rate risk, from which the Hungarian courts cannot exclude themselves, and which may have a fundamental impact on the assessment or validity of these types of foreign exchange credit contracts. It is not only possible that the credibility of the Hungarian government's construction agreed with the banks and the Curia will depend on this, which has caused so much suffering and could cause thousands of Hungarian families, and this is the only reason why it should be urgently reviewed. There is also a Hungarian case at the Court of Justice of the European Union C-51/17. the conditions under which the price risk is to be passed on solely to the debtor are considered to be unfair contractual clauses. On the basis of the decision, the Hungarian foreign exchange credit laws may also have to be reviewed, but until then it would be entirely justified to stop the scandalous enforcement procedures. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that both the leading speakers before me and the LMP will express their views on this. However, allow me to make a small comment on the subject, a little disoriented, on account of the fact that I have stumbled a little bit on the part of your speech before me. I would like to point out to Mr Gaal Gergő that he first referred to how good KDNP is, because the foundations of Christian democracy have long been laid down and must be faithful to this; and then in the next sentence he spoke of Christian democracy as something right-wing, civil and conservative, which alone is destined to put order in this matter and in this country. Honourable Congressman, With great respect, I ask you to look into the principle of your own party and Christian democracy. Christian democracy is not a conservative, right-wing, bourgeois thing, but it should be in the middle somewhere, and we shouldn't climb out to the right, too jumping right-wing parties. That's what I'm asking with respect, because I think the ideas that I respect myself are embarrassing. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2017-11-06-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have two-minute comments. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see an application, we're moving on with the proper speeches. Congressman Dénes Pigeon asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. When you ask for a word in the fourth hour of the debate, you think about which part to join. I think that I will choose the part that is important in relation to the asset system and that I think is important. In anticipation of the fact that I would like to highlight what Mr Völner said in his second speech, in the opening speech by the Government, with the thoughts of State Secretary Pál Völner and his thoughts expressed in his subsequent speeches. So far, it has been possible to go through the rules on the rescue and assistance of foreign exchange lenders. On this point, I would like to point out that I share his view on the fact that the final repayment, exchange rate barrier, National Asset Manager, settlement, forinting of mortgage loans, the forinting of consumer loans and the private failure are the steps that my fellow Members have already explained in detail, and my fellow Member, Gergely Gaal, spoke in detail about the private bankruptcy and Zsolt Szabó about the asset manager. However, let me highlight elements that have not yet been mentioned. [[17.40]] As a first thought with regard to the National Asset Manager, it is important to clarify what my fellow Members have not done, especially on the opposition side, what is the precise definition of the structure. Therefore, the 2011 CLXX. National Asset Management Ltd., established under law. The aim of its establishment was to ensure that the Hungarian State, under certain conditions, purchases of residential properties providing housing for the most deprived persons, i.e. the lenders. According to the construction, three important conditions are met here together. One: the lender no longer owns the property as an owner, but as a tenant he can stay in the property and have the opportunity to buy back the property. It follows that the other serious condition, which is one of the three conditions, is that the financial institution that had previously granted the loan receives part of the mortgage-backed claim, but in return, it waives the part of the claim exceeding it and participates as an entry point in the execution of the facility. The third condition is that the State pays the purchase price under certain conditions and owns the property, for which it provides for a certain period of time a repurchase option to the former owner, who resides as a tenant in the property. As a result of all these processes, as has already been said today, I would like to reiterate that until 2018, the National Asset Manager will purchase 36 thousand real estates, and the 2017 budget will also include the relevant cover. In terms of real estate, it is also an important number, which I would like to point out, that according to the declarations of intent received and the number of persons admitted, approximately 150,000 have already been accommodated by the National Asset Management Programme, since enforcement procedures have been suspended from the receipt of declarations of intent, so this housing condition is definitely given. I would like to join the speakers before me here by saying that it is a very important achievement that the moratorium on eviction was adopted last week by the Parliament, thus allowing foreign exchange lenders not to fall into unworthy conditions until April of next year. My colleague spoke about the private institution, but let me mention the number: 2702 people, which shows a modest rise. The institution itself is forward-looking and good, I joined myself when last year Imre Vejkey and I proposed the extension of the private bankruptcy institution. It should be noted that this institution, which also operates in Europe, next to us in Slovakia, overseas, America and Canada, poses the problem that many people, on the basis of the misunderstanding of the concept of bankruptcy itself, do not dare to engage in the use of this institutional system. I think that with a very tough and massive policy, help should be provided, even with the specialised apparatus of government agencies, which will be implemented within the framework of the Family Bank Protection Service. There have also been criticisms on the opposition side that there is no legal assistance - there is. In simpler, relatively simple cases, even cases that do not require representation before a court, there is a free assistance service, a public defender of the people, or on court complaints, there is a system of institutions for citizens, since only legal representation can really be provided by the new Pp. According to him, they will receive appropriate legal assistance until this time. Overall, I would like to underline the part of today's debate that the institutional system has been set up, as my fellow Member, Mr Pál Völner, has indicated, so far it has been possible to go this far. I think that the existing institutions should be operated efficiently and well, and that will help the foreign exchange lenders the most. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to add a few technical arguments, although I admit that political and professional arguments have been made in the same way, I must say on both sides, although I do not envy the representative of the government in many respects, in which case they are trying to protect the past events in all respects, the processes of the past years. I will explain why not, because, and I would like to say again, the solution would have had a political dimension and a professional dimension. The two are different from each other, but the mixed cut that has been created here, unfortunately, may be in the best interests of many, but certainly did not serve the debtors. I would go to the beginning of the case, when these foreign exchange loans were introduced, and it sprung out that there was going to be a problem, you could see that the exchange rates were fading. It was then raised for reasons in debtors whether it is actually a foreign currency loan, whether there is a currency behind it. This is now an increasingly complex issue after the decisions of the legal unit and after the parliamentary decisions and legislative amendments made, but if we had gone back to the stove, this issue would have been on the absolute agenda after the 2010 election. It is also true that if the forints were to take place at the market rate, which we would not have proposed in this form, but if it had happened then, people would have obviously been better off, since we were far from those exchange rates in 2010, around the change of government, which was finally forinted at the exchange rates. The basic question was whether or not there was a currency behind it. Why is that important? This issue is not a legal issue because it is legally possible to say that the contract is a foreign exchange contract and is thus to be judged. It's okay, I'll come to that. But the bigger problem is that if we looked at them in social, overall social and size, and listened to the cries of the banks about the loss they would have suffered, because they said that if they had had had to be forinted at the rate of admission, then we would have to see if they had actually suffered this loss, because if they hadn't brought in so many Swiss francs, euros to the country, but put out forint loans from the forint deposits, then their argument is a lie, that the loss they would actually have suffered if these loans had been put into circulation at the rate of admission. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank did not have such a statement, where it was proved that, by the way, not one fifth of what came into the country mostly in Swiss francs, and as a foreign currency loan, the banks were priced, set up, and since then it has been found that one fifth of this did not go into foreign currency lending, but these banks brought in the currency, converted it into forints at the National Bank, then put the forints in, and fed them with 8-10 percent interest rates, bought government bonds, for example, they were damn good, and the high interest rates naturally hit people, they hit Hungarian society. So it would have been an essential and most important aspect to look behind, as I said, whether there is a currency, whether there is a currency. The government did not do this, and it could have been done very easily, believe me: they should have called in the bank managers and asked them to bring in the paperwork, bring in the evidence of exactly how much currency they had imported into the country, how much they had converted, how much they had been loaned out in this form, and if they had been converted at the rate of admission, exactly how much their losses would have been. This was not raised by anyone on the part of the government; it would have turned out that there were no foreign currency loans. This was the starting point: the currency didn't work, only a fraction of the currency entered the country as they claimed as a foreign currency loan. And by the way, this is confirmed by the fact - I managed to talk to some bank officials at the time when we were able to trace that these loans came in - that there was a period when the forint began to grow, and, let's say, they picked up the Swiss franc at 170 forints, and some paid it back at 135-140 forints, because the forint became so much stronger and won a good 20 percent on the loan. [[17.50]] And then there was a quiet bank panic in the background, which the banks didn't dare to say, but they were whispering and whispering among themselves, that if this continues, the forint would remain so strong and so many would repay the loan, they would pay huge losses. Why is that? Because they put forints out of forint deposits. It was tied to a fictitious exchange rate, and obviously as it was strengthened, and the borrowers repaid it, and the banks were doing really well, as it was forint behind it, but they didn't dare to shout in this situation, because they knew, on the one hand, that the forint would be weakened, so they would be able to do the big scythe in a few years' time; and the basis for the entire currency loan would have fallen if the banks had started to complain that they had suffered damage due to the strengthening of the forint, because of the repaid loans. And then when the government didn't accept this opposition, and the bank's statements referring to fictitious losses were accepted - because it looked like it was calculated on square paper that, now I'm exaggerating a little, after HUF 10, they had an interest rate of HUF 100, or they had already planned that after 10 forints they would receive 100 forints as a profit, and if they would only have 50 for them, they would have set that 50 as if it were a direct loss, while they should have looked at what the numbers actually show behind bank statements. They didn't do that, they didn't do anything for years when exchange rates didn't run that fast. Then they pushed the problem to the courts, first of all to the Constitutional Court, which made a not so tragic decision, including anything, whatever parliamentary decision, would have been justified by the decision of the Constitutional Court. Then they pushed it over to the Mansion, and I don't know who, how, what they were changing in the background, but these legal unit decisions at the Mansion went very wrong, and here several people said from the opposition side about the attitude of debtors. We know the activities of György Wellmann, and I have spoken to him myself. However, the Curia's legal unit decision virtually cemented the principle that, without any back check - whether or not the currency actually came into the country, or whether the currency was behind the foreign currency loan - what the bank claims to be a foreign currency loan was said. Done, done. From then on, the situation was difficult, and those who tried to challenge these contracts were in an increasingly difficult situation, and otherwise this is also true of the legislative amendments introduced by the large dosannas in which you provided some partial relief to foreign exchange taxpayers, but in the meantime, the possibility of nullity litigation was completely eliminated. This, by the way, when it came to this, and even in the parliamentary debate in the report of the Curia, I told you several times exactly what the dams were, in law, which were constantly rolled before the nullity lawsuits, because, and here I will turn to the political arguments - which the Parliament, the government, towards the banks, whether they came in, how much currency came into the country, I explained this - let's take the other part, the professional arguments. If the independent courts had been allowed to assess these lawsuits, it would have been largely revealed that the rules in force at the time of their conclusion, the laws of the banks - and also the notaries, but this is another issue - were not in line with the banks. At that time, it was probably the decision before the government whether it was possible in Hungary that the banks were in mass violation of Hungarian law, and that the courts would judge the banks in a mass of tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands. Can the Hungarian legal system withstand this, that Hungarian legislation is enforced by the courts even if the banks fail? By the way, as I said at the beginning, they wouldn't have fallen that hard. And that's when it was born - I don't know where, but in backrooms or in think tanks or in government seats - the decision is that it can't be allowed, because the banks would live it as a kind of attack or something ugly if they were judged by Hungarian law to be accounted for in compliance with Hungarian legislation. They didn't. And, by the way, I would like to add that so much, and once again, my fellow opposition Members have said that, in the courts, slaughterhouses were actually formed at high pressure. There were also cases where, let's say, someone won a lawsuit against a bank, in the first instance, they awarded him 70,000 forints in court, or a few ten thousand forints - this happened more than once - and then, when the bank won at second instance after the legislative amendments, more than one million forints, 1.3-1.7 million forints. Let's see how much you've had to sue the debtors, shall we? Yeah, and on top of that, hundreds of thousands of millions of lawsuits have been awarded to banks that they haven't even, let's say, gone to trial and even sent out a lawyer. Then what the Hungarian National Bank did in connection with the conversion is also shameful. What happened was that instead of going into this street to yes, change foreign exchange loans at the current exchange rate - I would add that it is a rather vague argument, a vague argument that the rate of foreign exchange loans in Hungary has ceased to exist to the greatest extent. Yes, because the current market rate was converted by the Parliament's decision, the Parliament converted all the loans. It's an easy way to eliminate it. This is similar to what the government, all governments, socialists and fidesz said when we joined the European Union, that the Hungarian negotiating delegation and Hungary signed all contracts as quickly as possible, and that they were able to conclude the accession chapters as quickly as possible. Why? Because we signed everything, and we didn't have any reservations. This is about the fact that changing the market rate is not a big deal. Everyone could have done this, including other countries, but at most they didn't want people to do it. Then there were a lot of elements in this story. Indeed, the killing of civil society organisations is the new Ptk., a new Pp. He had the spirit not to be represented even in the affairs of their members, so that everyone had to hire a lawyer. The same is true of executors. Otherwise, often the executive's labour fee for the work not carried out and its maintenance often hindered the agreement between the bank and the debtors: when, let's say, they would have agreed, the enforcer said yes, but the significant labour fee had to be paid, even if he hadn't worked so far. And at the end - because there is much to talk about and that is what my fellow Members will do - but if it has already been said, perhaps from Gergely Gaal: it is a value difference, a difference in market value. What you've said is that they've valued - they've raised implementation to 100 percent of real estate. That's true, it was a good move, it was very late, but it was a good move. But I told you then that this would not have much to do with the market, then they said that in most cases this would be the case, and that there would be all sorts of remedies if that were not the case. Do you know what's going on? You were voted before the Justice Committee a week or two ago; you were not there, but the omniscient Imre Vas, who is not here now - I am surprised that you are not involved in the debate - you had the Fidesz-KDNP majority vote off the proposal that would have been aimed at recalculating the value not only every three years, but annually; because what now? They set a value, and it cannot be questioned for three years. To translate with a simple example: real estate is now being auctioned, and it may now be at 100% of its value, which is, of course, very good and very excellent, but those values may have been set at the end of 2014. Now, ladies and gentlemen, who do you think hasn't changed since the end of 2014? There have been, there have been, especially in large cities, that have doubled, and this proposal has been swept off without any valid justification. So there's a lot more to say, but the point is, unfortunately, we'd be moving forward even if we had been left to work in court and everyone could have proved their point, so the sin is that they've been forced to do so, and they've even taken it away so that people can prove their truth in court. Not to mention what I told you about the foreign exchange issue. We are convinced, and these documents testify: we did not enter the country as much currency as they claimed, so the whole construction was based on fraud. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[18.00]]
u2017-11-06-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Tilki. Here you go.
u2017-11-06-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We are on the political debate day initiated by the LMP, where, I am very sorry, neither Bernadett Szél nor my fellow Member Ákos Hadházy are present. Ákos Hadházy began with the qualification that second-class politicians are in the ranks of the ruling party. I am the sole representative of the easternmost constituency of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, where I received 23 119 votes in 2014, while the representative of LMP in my constituency voted 449 votes. So while I'm 53 percent of the votes for the election [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What does that prove?]] only 1 percent of LMP acquired [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Márton Gyöngyösi: You're good, Attila!]] , but regardless...
u2017-11-06-232	Mr President, with all due respect, I would ask you to move on to the subject, because this is not part of the agenda for this political debate. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-06-233	Thank you very much. I do not think that it should be classified as other party parliamentary representatives. During the previous comment by Gábor Staudt - of course, it seemed like a professional comment - he was lost, as he said, in the witches' pockets of politics, because he was drawn to statements that I think I should reject in the name of a Member, if the courts had been allowed to work. I would like to inform you that the MNB regulations 43 and 54 and the related accounting law 59. § (a) provides for the calculation of the loan, the legislator, we have established how to calculate the loans. In which there was a dispute during court proceedings, I said that I was an individual Member of Parliament, and I also called them, and talked to law firms that deal with foreign exchange-credit victims. It has been reported that the courts interpret existing legislation differently, namely, the mechanism for calculating loans is not in accordance with the MNB law on foreign exchange creditors, and not in accordance with the previously cited paragraph of the Accounting Act. But why is it that there is a law firm that can win 30 out of nearly a hundred lawsuits against the courts, with the legal argument that if we stick to what the legislator, the government, has intended in the form of legislation, then the banks can lose and lose the lawsuit to the banks. Or why is it that, say, in such a small town, in such a remote area, sometimes 300 out-of-court settlements can be concluded with banks? Because the banks recognize where they were wrong, where the previous calculations were not correct. Obviously, I agree with you that there is a professional and there is a political issue. I agree that Jobbik originally thought differently about solving problems arising from foreign exchange legislation, but this is a political issue between us. We said that we would try to ease the problem of foreign exchange lenders with the end-payment, the exchange rate barrier, the National Asset Manager, the settlement, the financing of mortgage loans and the forinting of consumer loans, as well as the private failing institution. Mr Ikotity quoted a letter addressed to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Believe me, as individual representatives, we meet a lot of people whose problems have been solved by these measures we have taken, as nearly 170,000 people have lived with the end-payment, nearly 170,000 people have lived with the price barrier, and nearly 35 thousand properties have been included in the National Asset Manager. It is a political issue because if we look at how Jobbik was at these proposals at the time, then let us speak frankly, and it can be said that the ban on foreign exchange loans and the restriction on unilateral interest rate increases by banks were not voted by Gábor Vona or the MSZP, or it can be said that neither Gábor Vona nor the Jobbik faction voted for the exchange rate barrier. So, Congressman, if we had put the political arguments aside and really looked at the fact that after the consolidation of the local government, a state solved the problem of the local government system, either locally, but rather predominantly solved it and tried to solve the problem of the private people, then we would have needed a compromise, just as there was no such compromise either in the eviction moratoriums. Wind Bernadett is talking about taking years and years. Why was it that neither the LMP nor the Jobbik voted in favour of the eviction moratorium? In 2013, only 9 members of Jobbik's 43-member group voted in favour. [[Rumors and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] This is in Parliament's minutes, Congressman, in 2013. You have to go back, you have to see how they voted. I think that if we put these political allures aside, we could think together. As a lawyer - we're talking about independent Hungarian courts - I don't know how you understand that we've touched the courts. This says that Fidesz puts pressure on the Hungarian courts [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's right!]] , but then how is it that the lawsuit can still be won against the courts, if we consistently stick to the norm, the two paragraphs of the above mentioned dh MNB, and the Accounting Act 49/A. The Committee of the Regions has adopted its Rules of Procedure, which are set out in its Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Madam Congresswoman, I would like to point out that you have a minute more time frame, because I have interrupted Congressman Ikotity for a moment. In that sense, not 10 minutes, but 11 minutes and 54 seconds. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-235	Thank you, Mr. President. What my fellow Member Tilki said will be necessary, I think. Congressman, I think you're playing a role here. Whoever has something to account for and to report here is the government and the government representatives, what they've been doing for the last seven years. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You were in the MSZP!]] To help foreign exchange credentials, to help people who, if it were up to you, would not be sitting here in Parliament right now. When you say that you are an individual Member, I would like to draw attention to the principle of equality of seats, but damn it to the details, when you are an individual Member, then your responsibility must be even greater in your logic. There must be a lot of people in your constituency involved in the issue of foreign exchange lending, and there must be a lot of victims. I wonder how you can account for them then. You were the ones who did not vote in favour of the stricter proposals made by the LMP, which would have provided substantial assistance to foreign exchange lenders. So you have nothing to say to the opposition. Now we're asking you to keep track of this case. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Attila Tilki: Were you in the LMP or the MSZP?]] Let me get this straight. Obviously, you voted off all your proposals to the LMP, which would have provided substantial help. My fellow Members obviously participate in the forums and discussions where we see Hungarian reality on a daily basis, listening to people's problems, providing solutions to their problems. I understand that this hurts you, because it seems that Fidesz-KDNP has not been able to complete this in the last seven years, because in the context of the reality of what they are doing, they clearly do not see what problems Hungarian people are suffering from, and in many cases the government itself is causing these problems. I would like to mention three important points in the context of the debate, which may have been less said, but I would like to say first that it is a very good thing that this debate day could have been created. I think a lot of people have learned the lessons. It is clear exactly what the attitude of the governing parties is, and it is true that there is an opportunity to outline appropriate solutions, to show that in 5 months' time, in 6 months' time, when the Orbán government is over and a new government is coming, what solutions will we provide for this situation. Before that, however, I would like to point out that there is always money for what there is a political will. The Fidesz-KDNP has been doing nothing in the last seven years but doing the minimum measures and the minimum expenses that are enough to divide a group to make their interests less effective, but you're not doing any more than that. [[18.10]] My fellow Members have also referred to this: yes, the issue of foreign exchange legislaters could have been resolved effectively in a very short time rather than rolling the problem ahead of us for many years. That's not what you did, unfortunately. The first very important thing that I would like to draw attention to is that it is important to stress that in Hungary until 2001 there was no possibility of a retail foreign exchange loan. This date is interesting for the case because in 2001 Viktor Orbán was Prime Minister of Hungary, just as he is now. He is the man who, for example, considers the issue of foreign exchange lenders to be solved. So the whole case started in 2001. This was the date when the Fidesz majority parliament adopted the foreign exchange restrictions in our country, and they accepted this whole scheme to make it possible. Even then, important legal guarantees should have been created, which would have given Hungarian people the right background so that the situation would not reach where it had come from. So it is clear that in 2001 the issue of foreign exchange loans was also a campaign promise for Fidesz. This was all about something else. It's just that it's very important to make it clear that it's all dated from here. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: He speaks nonsense.]] I would also like to quote their Finance Minister in office at the time of the first Fidesz government and later their central bank president, Zsigmond Járai, who said the following in connection with the foreign exchange lending:. In a number of presentations - if you will allow me to tell you - I have tried to draw attention to the fact that whoever signs a Swiss franck credit agreement is actually signing two contracts at the same time. On the one hand, a loan agreement and, on the other hand, a bet, a long-term bet on what the Swiss franc's exchange rate will be during the loan repayment period and during the interest payment period. For my part, I have said many times: I consider horse racing to be a fairer bet than speculation on the exchange rate. I was under the impression that the majority of the population did not really perceive this gambling or betting part of the credit agreement and expected that the Swiss franc's exchange rate could remain stable. That's what Sigismund Járai said. So we can make it clear that the current governing government has a huge responsibility for the fact that the issue of foreign exchange credentials has come to this point where this whole thing is going. It is also important to declare that even after the debt paid with interest, people still owe double or triple as a result of the accounts, and in many cases the value of the real estate does not provide a full guarantee for the settlement of the entire debt. A good solution to this would be the institution that my fellow Members have mentioned, the right to so-called walking away, which most of the victims would accept, but you also do not give them the opportunity to do so. Returning to the accounts, it is incomprehensible that if it is difficult for experts to understand them, then it is perfectly natural that for a layman it can be incomprehensible. The other very important point: let's remember the 3rd of June 2010. I don't know if these two dates say anything to you, June 3rd and June 4th. These two dates are the same as when Lajos Kósa and Péter Szijjártó broke the forint. After all, Lajos Kósa's words shook the Hungarian economy to a great extent, for he specifically stated that the state was inevitable and that our country could easily end up in Greece. In view of the operation of today's government and the National Bank, I think we can assume that even then, this statement could have been driven by speculation, which could have been won by the people of the first line of the party. In addition, the next day Péter Szijjártó, then spokesperson of Viktor Orbán, said that the Hungarian economy is in a miserable situation and that it is not too much to talk about a bankruptcy. From then on, the price of Hungarian market instruments has been constantly falling, and this has had an amazing impact on the situation of foreign exchange lenders. The forint was extremely rotten, and the Swiss franc was very strong. What else happened on the same day? The LMP had a proposal in the Committee on Budgets on 4 June 2010 to discuss forint and stock market crashes that day. Fidesz clearly voted against that. So even on the day when Péter Szijjártó and Lajos Kósa broke down the Hungarian forint, which simply had a tragic effect on the situation of foreign exchange lenders, they did not want to discuss this process, how such a situation could have come up and how they would take responsibility for it. According to the news, in one of Concord's investment advisors' tweets, the following was read:. Total Hungarian parasites - well, that was the international perception. Then let's look at a third point, and this is the ominous HUF 270 billion, which landed at the FBI Foundations, the Pallas Athena Foundations, some of which bought real estate on Andrássy Road. In 2014, the Hungarian National Bank made more than 500 billion forints on the weak forints with foreign reserves, from which they bought palaces and paintings again. By the way, hundreds of millions of people went to their relatives - we know from György Matolcsy that he has thousands of relatives, so the situation is a little worrying for the future and for the next five months - and otherwise they even bought carpets instead of helping foreign exchange lenders. So what were you supposed to do, what you didn't do, and what are we going to do? It is about HUF 1800 billion, from which the position of foreign exchange lenders can be solved. We will put this HUF 1800 billion into the system, and we will solve the problem of foreign exchange lenders in a short time. We will stop all executions, fix the repayments between 160 and 180 HUF, and we will introduce the so-called walking right, which will clearly be implemented by each bank according to the law. These are the measures you could have taken. They didn't, because they only had one goal: the enormous public dissatisfaction that had developed, just to silence them, trying to turn the people involved against each other, creating pretend solutions, such as the institution of early repayment. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Final repayment!]] where, on the one hand, it was up to wealth to make payments, on the other hand, in luck, the value of the real estate was, on the other hand, a third of the value of the property, because there was a huge supply of real estate on the market. It's not thought through. In the next five months, do things that are much more thought-out, and in five months, the LMP government will solve the situation of foreign exchange lenders. Thank you.
u2017-11-06-236	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been listening to this argument for a long time, and there's something that bothers me. I think you should take a different approach to this whole thing. It's a three-player story: banks, politics and borrowers. Who will bear the consequences? Are the banks wearing it or are they the administrators who handled it? Do politicians bear the consequences? No. The borrowers, that's them. We're talking about people, let's not forget it. These are families, children who could be evicted, who would bear the consequences. They are being evicted, they are the ones who are moaning the burdens, and we are constantly talking about who is to blame, what paragraph, who has done what, what laws we have made, and we have not solved the problem for 50,000 or 100,000 people. We should settle on a minimum. The minimum would be - because we are talking about people - if we say that there is an eviction moratorium until we have solved everyone's problems. As long as one person has a problem with all this, there are no good laws, we haven't done everything we can, Mr. Secretary, even if you say we've done everything we can. No! As long as it's a problem for one person, we're not done with the job. When we're done with the work, and until then, don't evict people, because they're not the only ones who can bear the consequences. My problem is a little bit that we are talking about human lives, human fates, families who are in an existential disaster, because everyone who is in this situation can safely say that they are in an existential disaster, because otherwise they were honest working people, because they wouldn't have received credit if they hadn't had a job and hadn't worked. [[18.20]] So let us begin with this question. Let's have a minimum that we can agree on, and then we can argue about trying this method, if we don't succeed, then we'll do it with another one, a third one, a fifth one, and until we solve everyone's problems. That's the basis. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the next round of speeches... [[For signal:]] No, we still have two minutes. Erik Bánki of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-239	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond to Congresswoman Márta Demeter's comment, because that's it - how do I put it? - a statement that seemed factual, without any substance or concrete, I heard in the Hungarian Parliament a long time ago. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the colours of which party you have obtained your parliamentary mandate. So don't forget that you're a representative of the MSZP here in Parliament. If I were you, I wouldn't have dared to come into the House and speak in the Hungarian Parliament on the issue of foreign exchange creditors. Not to call upon the government to take account of the measures it has taken since 2011 because your party, in the colors of which you have obtained a parliamentary mandate, with whom you have obviously undertaken a community of values, has destroyed these families. Over a million families have been placed under impossible circumstances. I agree with my colleague György Szilágyi, we should work on it and consider how we can find a solution for most families. But we have found that we have helped a million families with the measures that you consider as a pretend measure, my fellow Member. He considers 1200 billion forints as a measure of perception, which we have returned to Hungarian people, we have accounted for the banks, we have created the opportunity to abolish them, we have created the opportunity to erase them free of charge, we have regulated the exchange rates, and we have taken a lot of measures, of which you have not yet been sitting here as an MSZP representative in Parliament, and have not supported any of them. You have not personally supported these measures. Do not ask the Hungarian government to account for something that you have not supported, and do not ask for anything that your party has caused in this country, and your party has put hundreds of thousands of families in this impossible situation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gábor Bányai has only the opportunity to speak in the next round. I am now speaking to Congressman László Vécsey for a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We understand, of course, everyone feels that the election date is approaching, so there are various criticisms from the opposition in the form of political promises. We understand, we understand, but I think it is very talkative that only one member of the Socialist Group was not present during the entire debate day. I think it's safe to take that as a confession. This may be a bit contradicted by the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, which led to the emergence of a foreign exchange credit problem in 2001. My fellow Member, Mr Banki, has already drawn attention to the fact that you were a member of this group. Let me add a figure. In 2001, just to refresh our memory, a foreign exchange loan could be borrowed by someone who had a certified foreign exchange income. This was very limited to opportunities, and in parallel, the government provided a very good home-building discount, interest-rate subsidies, housing purchase and housing building opportunities. I really note only in parentheses that, after the change of government in 2002, many members of the then socialist and free democrat government took over the government with a very large amount of interest-supported housing loans, then pressed the button to thank you very much, we will abolish this housing support system, close it once and for all before the Hungarian citizens, and take on foreign currency loans with happy and unhappy ones, who otherwise do not have foreign currency income. This was done in 2001 and already in 2002-2003 the Socialist-Free Democratic Government abolished this possibility. So the number I promised was 2002 data, the breakdown of residential loans at the time: HUF 307 billion was the sum of foreign currency loans, and HUF 1541 billion was the sum of forint loans and housing loans. The ratio of foreign currency loans to total housing loans was only 17 per cent. In 2010, when the government changed, to put it mildly, it turned around: HUF 6983 billion was the amount of foreign currency loans, and HUF 3434 billion was the sum of forint loans, and the share of foreign currency loans in housing loans increased to 67 percent. What should have been done in 2010 was what could have been done; I regret that our fellow Member Gábor Staudt went out, but he also tried to criticise the measures taken by the government and the legislature on the basis of this approach. So what could have been done and what should have been done is very easy to say without the burden of government responsibility, without its weight. So the fact that we inherited from you, the Socialist Government in 2010, what country, the budget we inherited, was that the 18 billion that the Gyurcsány government had taken from the International Monetary Fund at the last minute had to be repaid in two years, and they refused to make any relief to the Orbán Government, even though a few months before that, the last economic and financial report of the Gyurcsány government was accusing itself of not interfering with the outcome of the elections. The Orbán government did not receive any relief, everything was immediately thrown into its neck. So it is - and I say this to my fellow Members who are better and have LMPs - what could and should have been done in 2010, to put it mildly, is an unhistoric approach. Rather, I share the position that Erik Bánki expressed - a little bit in favour of our fellow Member Szilágyi's comments - that we should, if possible, strive to solve the problem of as many people as possible. The fact that it is good for everyone, for effort, I believe that in world history it has not yet been possible to solve all problems or any problems completely, but to strive, I agree with him, it is absolutely necessary to do so. I would also like to emphasise that the ambition that has been reflected in the laws and that has taken place in this country since 2010 in the spirit of government responsibility, these measures have been rejected by the opposition parties and have not been voted in order, nor have the MSZP, mostly Jobbik and LMP. So a little bit of a Mrs. Congresswoman in a bucket, because she moved from a faction that was the cause of the foreign exchange credit crisis, a faction that otherwise did not support any measure that would have been intended to solve the foreign exchange credit problem. Allow me to give you some of the specific measures on end-payments - it could have been, should have been. Following the 2010 elections, as the first measure of the Fidesz-KDNP government, the moratorium on eviction was announced, and after that the exchange rate barrier was introduced, and then the end repayment, and now, as my fellow Members have said, we have reached the moratorium and the institution for family bankruptcy. With the introduction of the end-payment, it was possible to allow the repayment of outstanding foreign currency loans in HUF at the exchange rates already established, and the bank should not charge any costs in connection with the conversion and the lump sum repayment. If this isn't a help, then what's the help for foreign exchange credentialers? In my previous term, I can practically say that in most of my hours, I've encountered foreign exchange-credit problems in all my hours, and that's what people came to me with. Now, in this cycle last week's betting class, there was only one foreign exchange-credit problem, and it was also a foreign exchange loan problem with car purchases. So my experience with personal representatives also shows that the problem has been severely reduced and shrunk. [[18.30]] I'm sure you'll remember that the government between September 2011 and February 2012, so the first budget is... budget? There was no budget for 2010, there was a budget until October, so a budget for the year of a change of government had to be set up. Therefore, between September 2011 and February 2012, it allowed mortgage-backed debtors to repay their loans at a reduced rate. CXXXI 2011 on the amendment of certain laws relating to home protection. As a result, it can be said, inter alia, that the possibility of repayment at the fixed rate has been incorporated into the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises, provided that its conditions are met. It should be noted that according to the data of the Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Board, almost 170 thousand foreign exchange loan holders repaid their foreign exchange loan at a fixed rate of HUF 1354 billion, thus eliminating foreign exchange risk exposure, while the currency loan stock concerned decreased by nearly a quarter as a result of the end-payment. What is it if it does not help a significant group of foreign exchange credentialers? Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, nearly 170 thousand debtors made use of the possibility of final repayment, which resulted in a total savings of HUF 370 billion for the debtors. It's all left over by the FX guys. On average, one debtor - this is a very interesting figure - received a discount of HUF 2 million thanks to the lower exchange rate, and in addition, by the spring of 2012, the stock of foreign exchange loans decreased to HUF 5400 billion, and their ratio within the population's loans was first below 60 percent after 2007. What I just said to my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, is worth comparing with these figures. Thus, in the spring of 2012, the share of foreign exchange loans was reduced from 67 per cent in two years to 60 per cent. I believe that the debt-saving state measures have highlighted many people from the situation in which they were primarily transferred by foreign exchange rates, and I hope that the figures and facts presented in my speech confirm this. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Ander Balázs is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with the financial scam of the century, my fellow Members from Jobbik's benches or from the lines of the LMP have said a lot of things, they have told a lot of truths that highlight the whole moral absurdity of this filth, explaining that - I can safely put it this way - the legal rat meter would have been knocked out or jerked out by the whole outrageous shame that Hungarians have been able to do here in recent years under the title of foreign exchange lending. It is shameful and outrageous that there is no socialist faction here that unleashed this national killer madness in Hungary, using the loophole that was opened to them in 2001 by the Government of the Viktor Orbáns. There are no socialists here, shame, shame! I hope, by the way, that the people who have had a little faith in them and that they lose all confidence in them, because that's what they deserve, and that's what they don't deserve anymore. You don't deserve much more, either, because, let's just say, on 21 August, we clearly found out how you're going to deal with this whole topic when you boycott the foreign exchange credit meeting. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That was CEU!]] Saying, by the way, that Soros called it in. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It was CEU!]] The hell Soros called it! Soros, by the way, did the currency speculator, which I did not particularly like, or which was not particularly popular with Jobbik's faction, suddenly try to save the Hungarian credit victims? My fellow Member! Mr. Secretary. No kidding. Well, that's nonsense, so that would really be the absurdity of Monty Python. That wasn't it. You didn't come, you boycotted this meeting, instead of introducing this boycott when you brought me in your own interests, tailor-made, for example, in favor of your own oligarchs, in favor of such laws, tailored to them, you should have lived with such a boycott! It was also said here on the pro-government side that it was nothing more than a flea circus. My fellow Member Vécsey has just said that he does not really meet with such cases in reception hours. I, on the other hand, meet with cases like this, and every day we run into the tragedy of the credit-damaged, the calvaria, when they say that this case is not solved. You can't tell me they didn't leave anyone on the side of the road, but they did. Not only was he left on the side of the road, he was thrown into the ditch, if any. As a history teacher, I would like to bring up the stories of Taigetus related to the ancient Sparta when babies who were considered lifeless were thrown into the ravine, according to tradition. You have done the same to many Hungarian people who did not deserve this fate. They should have been saved. It is not a scandal here that the opposition representatives speak, it is not about that. We want to present reality, the reality that you, crouching on your ivory tower, do not always want to see from under the pink glass dome. We bring this reality, the word of this reality, to Parliament. They also said that the whole idea we outlined about the solution would have been some sort of Bolshevik solution. No, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the banks have behaved like vile Bolsheviks. Let's just say, back in my grandparents' time, I was familiar with the practice of taking everything from the peasant. Yeah, that's how the banks worked during the executions, they acted like Bolsheviks in many cases, and they drove these in many cases from nothing to Hungarian people on the existential butchery, which in many cases you have been unable to prevent. What was a positive step forward, obviously, is eligible, and we have also accepted an extension of the moratorium here, but I ask you, who, say, will be evicted on the 7th or now on November 8th or 10th: they will not freeze in the winter, will they not get cold? Yes, you can. It is a very nice thing to extend the eviction moratorium until the end of April, but you know that this problem will only be put off, postponed, but will not be solved. But we need a solution for these people, which you don't want to hear, because you don't want to. They do not want to hear that there are 900 thousand executions in progress, they do not want to hear that families in Hungary are being evicted with two-week-old children, which is the disgrace of everything, the bottom of everything. They do not want to see the excesses of the executives, they do not want to see the family tragedies that are behind this, and they do not want to hear that 100,000 homes in Hungary are in danger, as the number of late payments over 90 days is so great. Nor do they want to hear, or have you said, that the statistics of the MNB on the sale of mortgage-backed residential properties indicate that a thousand families lose their homes in Hungary every month. That's how much you've solved this issue. They didn't talk about how it could happen, either, that they had to repay Swiss franc loans and foreign exchange loans at 256 forints with a hundred and fifty forints. That, my fellow Members, is what we should have talked about and the solution to what Jobbik proposed: to forint these loans at the rate of admission, not at HUF 256, but, say, at HUF 150-some, 160, and that the moratorium should not only be enforced between 15 November and 30 April, but until a final solution is reached in this shameful matter. We should have talked about the solution, the control of the excesses of its executives, and why it would mean, let us say, the solution to such tragedies in Hungary is also the EU wage initiative, which you also do not want to hear. They do not want to hear that the Hungarian people did not get into such a credit crisis because of some hedonizing lifestyle, but simply because... What are you shaking your head about, Mr. Secretary? Don't be like that. Yes, you can. The Hungarian people, in the eight years that the socialists conducted here, and in the seven and a half years that followed, became poor houses in Europe. The wealth of an average Polish household is twice the size of an ordinary Hungarian family, please. [[18.40]] The so-called Big Mac index is how much Big Mac can be bought by citizens in Bucharest and Budapest. So much for the booming, growing, strong, proud European Hungary. We should talk about why you made a pact with the Bank Alliance, and let's say the culprits of this whole organizational distribution mechanism aren't on the defendants' bench. That's what we should be talking about. But it is quite clear that the Hungarian people expect empathy from the guilty side here in vain. Why is that? Why would they wait? Who would expect understanding here? From the Demand Manager? From the President of the Demand Manager, who brings home nearly HUF 50 million annually and receives a HUF 9.3 million bonus at the end of the year? Should we expect empathy from the bank union president who socialized in Bisku's family? In the family of the Bisku who was the hard fist of the so-called soft dictatorship? One of the main responsible for the retribution following 56. Should we expect empathy from the President of the Banking Federation, who was a World Bank leader or influential operative at the time? By the way, László Bogár recommended the book of John Perkins, the confessions of an economic assassin, which I recall appeared at the Ráció Publishing House in 2006, perhaps in my fellow Members! It clearly describes in this book what kind of organization this World Bank is. Now, those who socialize in such a place should not expect anything good from the Hungarian people. Or from the György Matolcsy who says it's supposed to be a case of credit-damaged people? Are you reliving the incredible misery and social destruction of these people, these families? The amount that you won instead of trying to help the victims out of it in some way? Or they expect the empathy of László Kövér, who at a residential forum tells an upset person, a Hungarian person, a foreign exchange victim, that you took the loan. That's it? There should be some understanding that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have taken these loans not because of some cricketism, but because they had no other opportunity to get from one to two; to create normal conditions for their families. Who should we expect empathy and understanding from here? Mr. Prime Minister's son-in-law, who moves with his lovely wife to a villa of 369 million forints and still to be renovated? What do these people, by the way, know about the everyday bitterness and misery of the average Hungarians? Nothing! So it's completely unnecessary to expect empathy from them in this form. A lot of times we come up with an apology. They also told you to apologize to the pensioners, Gábor Vona. This Saturday I met a retired uncle at a residential forum in Csokonyavisonta, who lamented that they were actually taking his entire pension, that there would be no money left for medicine, just because his wife and wife had decided to help children and help buy the apartment. Who's gonna apologize to him? Who will apologize to the hundreds of thousands of runaways who have left Hungary to pay the crappy banks for the loan that has fallen on their necks in such an illegal way? Who will apologize to the families of those who committed suicide who stayed orphaned and widowed? You can grin on that anyway, but who's gonna apologize to the crippled people for their tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands? My fellow Members, this is something to think about and not to play here, say the student of Master Pangloss, who says everything in Voltaire's Candide is very nice, everything is very good, and this world is the best of all worlds, so free after Leibniz. You, too, believe that this government is the best of existing governments. It's not like that. We'll make sure we prove it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I don't see an application, but Congresswoman Márta Demeter for a minute and seven seconds, then Congressman Erik Bánki. Here you go.
u2017-11-06-245	Fellow Members! Many are responsible for the situation, but do you think this government, this ruling party, is capable of dissuading responsibility on its own? They've been ruling for seven and a half years. They haven't solved the situation. If they wanted to, they would have solved it, so don't lie.
u2017-11-06-246	Thank you very much. Congressman Bánki Erik is next. Here you go.
u2017-11-06-247	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue what I started in my previous two-minute comment. I would like to respond to Mrs Márta Demeter's speech, and her time frame has now expired, but I would like you to tell me, outside of discussion, what did you think: HUF 1800 billion out of what, how, which budget? Did you not sit here in Parliament when the Hungarian Parliament adopted its budget for 2018? Don't you know what the budget is, Congresswoman? 20,000 billion forints. The HUF 1800 billion you've been talking about is 9 percent of the budget. Who are you marrying? Social services, teachers, health care? Where are you going to take money from, Congresswoman? It doesn't work by sitting at a table in front of a piece of paper, figuring out what good money would be, and then I'll make money. That's gotta be taken from somewhere. Well, he won't be able to exceed the budget deficit. I know that you're used to this in the benches of the MSZP, that it doesn't matter, that we'll cosmeticize the data, that we'll lie, and we'll cheat, and we'll do all sorts of things to keep us from going into infringement proceedings. But it doesn't work anymore, Congresswoman. What worked during the Gyurcsány government doesn't work anymore. The European Commission and the European Union cannot be fooled. So don't fool people, don't talk about vegetables that don't have any basis. Or if he talks, tell me where he's from. 1,800 billion forints is a lot of money. You can't come up with that from the budget, I'm sure you can't in 2018, even if the voters decide that you can govern. Fortunately, voters have much more wisdom and sobriety than that. So they won't sit up for these rumors, and I'm absolutely certain that these otherwise unfounded and non-specific lonzunges are not taken seriously by anyone. I would even respond to Congresswoman Szabó Timea in my heart, as she has said some interesting things, but I will do this at the next step. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-248	Thank you very much. Mr György Szilágyi is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-11-06-249	In my previous speech, I said that we should agree on a minimum. It will be difficult to agree on a minimum when my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs, I think, could almost agree with everything he said, while you, Mr Secretary of State, represent the government at the moment, cynically sitting back, laughing at the fact that we are talking about destroying people and destroying families. Mr. Secretary, your behavior this entire debate day is outrageous, and you're doing the same thing right now. You're constantly, cynically laughing at our faces, laughing into the face of the hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credoes you didn't save. You can smile at that, Mr. Secretary. You can be cynical. Shame on you, I think you should be ashamed of the way you behave on behalf of the government. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-250	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2017-11-06-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only asked for the floor because it is not the first time that Congressman and some of you have tried to bring this conversation to a virtually emotional level that has nothing to do with me having a private conversation while you claim impossible things; the one that you want to slander is that I would mock or smile at people with vulnerable fates. Your efforts are ridiculous, by the way, that they want to push the weakest in front of you as shields. They don't acknowledge government measures, they talk nonsense. For example, Congressman Gyöngyösi visited municipal debts, even though it was precisely this government that took over municipal debts and can only take up debt with permission from the Ministry of Interior, practically instead of the previous HUF 1300 billion. They can't borrow for operation, they can practically take on development, and only a fraction of it is possible in today's circumstances to take out a debtable form. Such factual errors are teeming with speeches, and I resent that I would mock those who are the most afflicted in this situation. And I'm asking on behalf of the government that the government doesn't care about them. Exactly from the data in the expo, it was obvious that we talked about a process that lasted for many years. [[18.50]] Besides, it's indebtedness. Today, no private individual can take on foreign currency loans in Hungary without having an income in foreign currency. You know that very well, this Parliament has accepted it. That this government would support the increase in debt here? Nonsense! Think of the CSOK system where the government grants subsidies. Not a loan, not an interest rate, and I don't know what terms. They said that foreign currency loans should be restored to a forint status at the time of admission. It was also mentioned in the introduction that the interest rate on the forint loans was 14-18 percent per year, so if we were to transfer the HUF loan, it would imply that it would have to be accounted for at the level of interest at the time if you referred to the exchange rate. We'd create a lot more debt and debts than we're talking about. That is why I say that I would like to ask you for some objectivity when we talk about cooperation and a minimum. If I've misunderstood, I'd like to apologize to Mr. Ander Balázs. I deeply agree that the eight years between 2002 and 2010 - where the budget deficit could reach up to 9 percent, where families were indebted, where hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost - are one of the most shameful periods in the country. I'm sorry, I only asked you to speak because I called you, but thank you, Mr. President, I'd like to leave the floor for the others in case they wish to speak. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-06-252	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we go any further, we have a notary announcement. I give the floor to notary József Attila Moring.
u2017-11-06-253	Thank you. Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary Decision No 37 Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party shall take the necessary steps in favour of foreign exchange credit victims V/17955. On Monday, November 6, 2017, during a time-frame debate, the remaining timeframe will be presented in full to the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group. Dr. János Latorcai is a faction director.
u2017-11-06-254	Thank you very much. A proper speech from the Fidesz Group will be followed by Mr Sándor Hadházy.
u2017-11-06-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We're nearing the end of the debate. As far as I can tell, the socialists still have 45 minutes of free time. I think they've given enough thought to come up with something smart. If we remember what happened in the early 1990s, then we remember that the municipal law was born sometime in August 1990 and entered into force in September, and then the municipalities were given the huge opportunity to manage, own and farm old Council properties. They couldn't farm them because they were a failure, conditions that allowed only one meaningful journey, and this was to take whoever wanted that property. The owner had the right to take advantage, and after various discounts, they could obtain these properties for virtually a fraction of the assumed or real value. This is where the modern history and history of housing management began, and nothing really happened on this issue until 1999. Nothing! After that, it was the first Fidesz government that discovered that this was an existing problem and sought a solution. He's seen multiple possibilities. One of them is the municipal housing program. If anyone else remembers it, then this triggered a great deal of interest in the local government world, and a lot of municipalities, especially larger settlements and cities, took advantage of this opportunity and were built into municipal tenements. This was not enough to tackle and remedy the huge problem, so a favourable housing loan scheme was launched with a 3 percent interest rate, which was obviously linked to the central bank's basic interest rate and made home creation predictable for the population. This program, I recall, started in 2001, and in 2002, during the election campaign, various political forces spoke, and if I remember correctly, Prime Minister Péter Medgyessy said that we would preserve this program and even further develop it. Well, this surveillance was successful for a very short period of time, nearly a year, and then it was further developed, which meant that the funds were practically withdrawn from behind it, they said that the current state of the budget would not allow this further financing, so it was abolished, and in fact the population's Calvary started from here, because the population was looking for a solution on how to renovate, expand, or create a new home. This was a huge demand in the market, and the socialist government at the time gave a very simple response to this demand, to this question, he said that there was a foreign exchange loan. If you have an expensive forint loan, with interest rates of more than 10 percent, then take on the foreign exchange loan and offer it, and a lot of people have taken advantage of it, but they didn't really think it through. It was clearly the then government's responsibility to make this available to the public without any restrictions or brakes. The business world, the banks, of course, took advantage of this opportunity, saw that this was a good business opportunity, and it was a very fast upswing of this whole loan. Unfortunately, the 2008 financial crisis has brought great sobriety not only to the United States, but also to the whole of Europe, including in Hungary, and at the time, borrowers faced the real situation - be it housing loans, business development loans, mortgage loans, asset purchase loans, car loans - with which many people have lived. Those who took out mortgage-type loans were the ones who drew the short straw. This situation was inherited by the second Fidesz government in 2010, and it was faced with this, but we were also aware of the state of the country, the financial and economic situation, and the terrible pressure on the government from the inside and the outside, and we were looking for a solution. We have had a lot of tough debates at group meetings on the direction in which we should start, whether on the issue of budget recovery or on the issue of this loan. We have taken a number of steps, and we have had the intention and the will of the Fidesz governments to correct and remedy these issues. What I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have achieved a great deal, but it is clear that every problem, every problem, has not been solved to this day. We can't argue with that. We continue to look for ways to deal with these problems and to remedy them. We have also listened to you, but unfortunately we have not found a sensible, viable path, with respect, fellow Members. I listened to the whole debate personally with great curiosity. But my name relative wasn't so patient, and Wind Bernadett stormed off pretty quickly after he told me his little rhyme. I think that this deserves much more than the debate that we have heard today, and I am, for my part, a partner in thinking this further. [[19.00]] But only in a sensible way; but only in such a style that we do not start the speech by saying that the other side is a scoundrel. Because it's gonna be difficult to have meaningful dialogue. That's the thing. Politics must be studied and practiced. I understand; I have also been a starting politician, and I have certainly made a number of mistakes, but this is a matter of weight where such mistakes should no longer be made. Therefore, I suggest that we try to have a meaningful dialogue, a sensible solution and try to help, not at the expense of others, but to find a solution to the joy of those in the present, unfortunate situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-06-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps all that has already been said today about the problem of foreign exchange lending is usually said. However, the focus was limited, which we could highlight in relation to the problems of each district, or a geographical area, the people there. We had fellow Members who reported on their constituencies' reception hours about the intensity of these complaints. I looked at this case in the same way when I was preparing for debate day, what is important to the people of Karcagi, the people of greatness, or even the people of Tiszafüred, what is really on their shoulders in this debate. First, we need to look at where we can start to see if their situation needs to be changed, if we are talking about foreign currency loans and their problems, and if so, how can it be? But the starting point of this may be to look at the potential of people to break out of this financial crisis at all. For it must not be silenced that it is a financial pressure on all families, on their relatives. As much as we believe that a loan can be managed, a loan has always a financial burden and difficulty due to unpredictable processes in life. Especially for those who, after a foreign exchange loan, face a very large instalment and an even bigger credit burden, which is much higher than the original one, and still try to repay where appropriate. 'Cause what's gonna make the loan? It's gonna be the loan you can take home as an action. If you look at the Grand Commonwealth and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, unfortunately, we are not very good at wages. Although the government has repeatedly said what a catch-up it has been, and today perhaps it has been said in a European comparison that the government believes that there has been a marked catch-up on wages in Europe, how much progress has been made, and the local people do not really feel it. Looking into the average lawsuits, we can see that people in this area are not very well paid jobs, they are not CEOs of multi-company companies, they are not officials in banks, we are talking about general, normal professions or teachers, we are talking about drivers or shoplifters, loaders or simple security guards, policemen. Their salary, by the way, is sporadic in the lower region, let alone health workers. Some of them have to solve the family burden of 150,000 gross or 220-230,000 gross. Of course, if there's another search party, it's even more ideal. But there's the cost of living, the cost of housing, the cost of maintaining the family, and that's how you deal with all the heavy burdens they've put on their necks. So we can safely say that there is not a very good wage situation in the High Community. One of the worst areas of the country is the North Great Plain, including Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County and the Great Kunság. People here have to fight very hard for what little they have. But this is very difficult to cope with, which is why this has created another problem, and this migration is not only abroad, but also within the country. We have seen, and we see, that many have gone from our county to Győr-Moson-Sopron County because of the foreign currency crisis, and many have not stopped at national borders. They got on trucks from various multinational companies, went to work in the UK, and found a job that was not suitable for their skills, but that which was otherwise good for a living, precisely so that they could repay that runaway loan, and that they could even keep what they had acquired for themselves. In Hungary, but I think in every Hungarian household, they say that the house, the property of man, is the greatest treasure. These people were trying to keep it. So they were forced into a financial press that contributes to virtually depopulation of the countryside. According to our own estimates, walking around the city of Karcag every day, in the town of about 20,000 on paper, in consultation with the number of people using official services and the data from it, about 13 thousand people live in the settlement on weekdays. Some of them are there, either by address only, or they usually do not live in the city, but they live in Budapest or in cities and settlements in Western Hungary, and they only come back periodically. And this brings these settlements into a constricting spiral, not to mention much smaller villages. Continue to breathe the air away from well - paying jobs and breathe the air away from realistic and normal loan repayment opportunities. But what else do you need? Well, I need a job in every case. And we're not good at that either. Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county boasts the second worst unemployment indicators in national comparison. You can't say that. The second worst unemployment rate is on the bench. Basically, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén beats him only in this otherwise sad indicator. And we have settlements, such as Kunmadaras, where unemployment is three times the national average, and there are villages along the Tisza region where a quarter of the settlement does not see work because it does not have a job. In these settlements, how can people even repay any kind of loan? Where there is no job opportunity, where virtually a part of the population has gone, how will anyone make a living around them? This is simply a way to either bankrupt these families or lose their property, or they are forced to emigrate either within the country or abroad. Overall, it is therefore clear that the data speak against whether everything the government has done can really be helpful. We need to see how this could have developed. Several people have explained what legal circumstances have led to it and what the legal environment is. We must say that the legal environment has not, in my view, improved at all. Everything that existed before 2014 has not really diminished, has not improved or improved the position of foreign exchange lenders with real problems. To tell you a personal thing, as a junior associate and a junior lawyer, I didn't get the best snacks, the best jobs, and I wasn't the best employee in the office. Of course, you have to walk the donkey ladder. However, I had the opportunity to meet with the residents who, in their unsaveable situation, kept coming in and telling me what trouble they were in. I wish many of my fellow Members, but let no one be like this, that at the age of 28-30, people 50 years old and 45 years old have to look at the crying faces of people in economic emergency and tell them that we simply cannot solve the problem as lawyers, because the current legal situation and the legal situation are such that it is impossible to find any good solution to their problem. We had to go through this, and believe me, my fellow Members, what you think was a solution is not a solution. He still hasn't solved the problem of the best. These people are fighting the exact same thing right now. There's a loan of the same size that you can't afford. All those who have entered a price barrier are starting again, and they are facing the fact that they are once again faced with a huge, unsuitable loan, which they know how they will repay from their own wages. The same cases will happen again. Regardless of what the government has not done, regardless of where the MSZP in the opposition and in the former government has failed, it would be our shared responsibility to come up with solutions beyond political barricades that are everyone's legitimate expectations. These were on the table, these foreign exchange credentials, their advocacy alliances, the individual voters in your, your, your constituency, they all told you what they wanted. This is what we should have listened to, and this was supposed to be on paper, and we should have put this on paper. That would have been the real solution. 'Cause in this case, it seems more like you've spotted me, and the whole Parliament has spotted me with the Feds. In essence, we couldn't help them at all, there was a narrow layer of people who might have been helped, for example, by the phenomenon of the exchange barrier or, for example, the possibility of repayment, but it didn't help anyone to have to pay anything at an artificially found high rate. [[19.10]] The fact is, my fellow Members, that most of the society that is struggling with this problem has been pushed into a hopeless situation in the Great Kunság from Tiszafüred to Tourkeve, from Gun to Karcag, who are still moaning their foreign exchange loans. These people have no realistic opportunity to get rid of this burden for the next 15 to 20 years, because their earnings and job opportunities are not in proportion to what they still have to pay. Colleagues, this is what we need to work on. That would be our task now, but it will also be our task from 2018, because this problem has not been resolved, it cannot be swept under the carpet, it must continue to work on this, and we must finally find a way to settle which is fair and which will help everyone. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-06-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is also the result of the Group of Jobbik, Mr Vágó Sebestyén. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, So, towards the end of the debate day, it's hard to say something that hasn't been said. Unfortunately, we have heard a lot of sad facts, and we have heard half-truths, even lies, and contradictions. We have always heard from the pro-government benches how much they have done for foreign exchange credit victims, and they have often mentioned, for example, that the moratorium on eviction has now been extended. In my opinion, the extension of the eviction moratorium is a rebuttal of the fact that everything has been done for those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, because if they had done everything they could, there would have been no need for an extension of the eviction moratorium. Then families of hundreds of thousands would still not be in a position to need such help, such a false solution, in order not to lose control of their homes. There were a number of measures, but towards the end of the many measures, what could we have encountered? We have seen examples that after the forinting, the debtor's backlog was higher than the amount he recorded. His debt was in such a state that the value of the property did not even reach the amount of credit currently being paid to the person who was caught in this trap situation. Of course, it is possible to talk about responsibility, it may be said that the person who took these loans may have been reckless, but if we face the campaign that these loans had at that time, and we face the fact that, since the simple borrower met when he applied to the banks for help, we can say that this responsibility is minimal. Especially if you take into account the consequences of the faulty decision of that time, the situation that you have been in since then, and the situations that you have to experience today as a result of this faulty decision, you can say that if you have had some level of responsibility, you have already repaid it with interest. Let us see who else is accomplice to this situation. The government is accomplice to this situation. It has been said in several speeches that the government, which was to be established in 2001, is responsible for this, and the governments of the first Orbán government at the time and the eight years after, are also responsible for this situation, and the governments of the last seven and a half years have also been responsible for not finding a normal solution. And who else is responsible? The banks. This leads to a direct conclusion as to who actually has to take on the problems that still arise, and who has to clarify and solve these problems by 100%. As I said before, the people who took out the loan, the people in the currency trap, both mentally, financially and humanly, paid back what they had then entered, and what they had then begun. But here are the government, and here are the banks, who have not paid even a fraction of the crime and the mistake if I were to put it mildly, what they have done over the past few years, even over a decade. So it's time for the government and banks to take responsibility for the situation finally, normally and honestly. It is not necessary to focus on, or to bring to light solutions that give advantage to, the measures taken in recent years or to certain layers, but to bring real solutions. We have heard from the Secretary of State that the current government is no longer falling into such mistakes, and is trying to find other ways to start a life, trying to find other ways to obtain property and housing, whether young couples or parents with children. It's just that these are just like traps and lies, like eight years of MSZP-regnition, foreign exchange-credited lies. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned the CHOK. Who can use the CSOK, the 10 plus 10 million forints? In addition to the 10 plus 10 million HUF current prices, what amount of credit is needed to make a family home for itself? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Not in the country.]] What is the amount of which a newly built house can be erected in Hungary today, with the purchase of the land, with its public works, or with its construction costs? [[Dr. Pál Völner: You can also buy a flat.]] I have a lot of friends who have started this, and they say that they have to add more than 10 plus 10 million forints, and they have to take a bigger amount in the form of loans. They could be trapped in the same way as foreign exchange lenders now as a result of this measure. So you can say things like that, but that doesn't provide a solution. In the case of CSOK, a solution should be found that will not only provide a home for those who have an adequate family background, or who are in a better financial position, but also for those who, as public employees, as employees of the social sphere or teachers, want to have a decent home, a decent roof, and a decent raising of their children there. So what the government of the last eight years has done, which you have said many times, against foreign exchange legitimists, seems to have been in a family policy and in the family support system that this government, which has been running for seven and a half years, has done the same. Do not commit it because they are also trapping young people and young married couples and families who take on children and are starting to acquire real estate. So, to sum up the whole thing, I think it's finally time for the government and the banks to take responsibility and resolve the situation, not just by pretending measures, not just by taking measures that are beneficial to certain layers, but by taking real responsibility. I know very well what Erik Bánki told our fellow Member of the LMP lecturer. It would be inconvenient for the government to take on a 9 percent foreign currency debt as compared to the annual budget, but by taking on or taking on part of it, it would be possible to force the banks to finally assume responsibility, and they would also have to pay back into this, which, for the sake of their extra profit, was used at the time for the foreign exchange victims, who still could not get out of this situation. So it's time for them to prove that it's time to be fair, forced out of the banks, and take up some of these costs, these loans! Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-06-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gábor Bányai is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. Your time frame is ten minutes.
u2017-11-06-261	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the horseshoe, although there are few of us now, I'm sure everyone has met, met, and in the days you'll be able to meet foreign exchange credit victims. This is likely to be the case for a long time, because some of the solutions, because some of the proposals have been made, are not feasible. For this reason, I would also be careful in the position of dear Márta Demeter, if the LMP would make such a promise to the electorate that the government would accept the payment of HUF 1800 billion of loans. I indicate that not so long ago, Ákos Hadházy promised to raise the funds for research to HUF 6,000 billion at the end of September. That's about five times what we've spent so far. This is already 6000 billion a year, with a difference of 5000 billion from current sources, so it requires an extra source of HUF 5000 billion, plus the total annual breakdown of 1800 billion. Let's not stand next to the Medgyessy Gyurcsány-couple. Don't side with him if you're going to the government, because they've already successfully broken the country's budget and the country's economy. This also calls for caution in the fact that such promises should not stand before the electorate. However, it is a fact and a fact - as you have said, opposition representatives, as well as us pro-government representatives - that it really was the case of foreign exchange loans with a world war disaster in terms of the financial situation of our families. [[19.20]] After all, from April 2003 it was forbidden to support house building from a supported HUF loan or to buy a flat. I was lucky at the last moment, and I was able to hire him, my bank advisor made me a lucky man by dissuading me from foreign exchange credit, that it would be foolish for me to borrow money from another state, or from the Union, to use his money when there is Hungarian forint and there is still a subsidised loan. It is true that no one talked about debt in the forint today, because for them too, which is a loan of HUF 30,000, that is now HUF 69 thousand per month plus all kinds of additional costs, so the repayment has doubled there, but they are probably a little quieter, because it does not affect so many people. Let's not forget that 250,000 Hungarians and families took on, say, currency-based loans to build and buy homes. The others, on the other hand, are astounding, and this is why it is tragic, for cars, for unnecessary devices, for plasma TV, for maritime travel and such. I'm sorry about them. They were the same as the citizens of the United States of America on the American continent, who also took out real estate-based mortgage-based loans for similar purposes. The bankruptcy took them, too. Here is the question, not pointed back, but the fact: on June 6, 7th, 2010 - the dates were told by opposition representatives who spoke before me, when they mentioned what Lajos Kósa and Péter Szijjártó said to the public - do not forget that at that time a spoonful of iron was not for the new Hungarian government to pay anything. Do not forget that between 2010 and 2015, the Hungarian government, the first and the second Orbán government, had a debt repayment of more than HUF 3000 billion per year. The big money you had to cough up had to be paid for. Don't forget this, because we talk about our fellow countrymen in a currency trap while the government and the Hungarian state's budget, the Hungarian state as a whole, had fantastic reserves, when everything was made of gold, sausage was the basic material of the fence, and they forget that we jointly ruled the country out of bankruptcy. I therefore ask everyone to be fair that this was not such a simple story that the over 6,000 billion foreign currency loan arrangement over its share of the capital would be just like the current government to solve this serious problem. To solve this, the resources have not yet been ahead of us, and here is the LMP promise set, that it is now possible to think about assuming that if the country's growth path is not interrupted in the next year because of some catastrophic election result, and it can be done that the next government might think of some kind of help, I myself would be willing to support such an opportunity. But let's not forget that the ethic of repayment and the tax ethic will be extremely insulted by such a decision, but let's try it. If I had the money, I would vote in favour of this myself, fellow Members. The other thing that's important is that we don't forget that it happened with the 2008 date, maybe on October 8, when the OTP crashed in, the OTP shares were practically 22 percent, if I remember correctly, so much. Three days later, our Swiss franc credit, which we took up for development - worth 145 forints - was only able to repay, redeem and forint it for 185, because fortunately it was foreign exchange-based for us, the bank gave currency to our local government. It was a huge amount of cash, by the way, but it was a price at the end, so it was apparently good for the first time. But perhaps at that time the decision that broke the country's budget in practice, and the $25 billion EU, global, and IMF assistance came, let us not forget that it is still destroying the lives and opportunities of all of us to this day. But in order not to take the floor from the Secretary of State to speak, Mr Cseresnyés, Secretary of State, would like to speak in the debate and asked me to give him time when the court or the Curia decided that the debtor was responsible, and that his problem was, in fact, the loss of exchange rates and the risk of exchange, a lot of things had gone away. When I heard that, I experienced this as a disaster, even to this day, because the Curia, perhaps what Congressman Gábor Staudt said, is that we are influencing the court. I wish we could've influenced it. That is not the decision we wanted, my fellow Members. In closing, many people say that this is not a good, honourable Member of the House of Vágó Sebestyén, when we help Hungarian families, future families, take on children to establish our common future. To say it wasn't good - it wasn't like that before! [[Cutter Sebestyén interrupts.]] First of all, it wasn't like that. Two, we don't expect to do anything now, especially after foreign exchange loans, with a zero percent share, virtually without money. I have friends, little guys, big guys, they still pay for our car, their Suzuki Swift, even after ten years, because they couldn't afford it right now. They paid the car twice or three times for taking a loan from their bank. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-06-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-06-263	Ladies and gentlemen, We were just listening to what a disaster it was, obviously it was for the period after 2006, when economic processes took place, which then brought quite a lot of economies to their knees, which were related to the credit crisis, and then finally brought about the whole credit crisis and the foreign exchange credit problem itself. But I would like to ask you, fellow Members, who were here - I do not know who you were here at the time - how many times have you spoken out against a large-scale outburst or any kind of angry outburst by Ferenc Gyurcsány or Péter Medgyessy, or who knows which prime minister or minister. How many times have you been here, and how many times have you been told the way you are now, let's say, the LMP guys or the good guys have been accountable to you? You may often say that it is unfair or inappropriate, but how many times have you asked for it? Did Michael Varga stand up? Did he say that? And when I looked up what Mihály Varga said here, he said so carefully that I had never heard a man speak so carefully when you were talking about disaster during this period. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] If it really was a disaster, then we should have spoken up, and then we should have beaten the opportunity to stop going and have some sort of solution to this credit crisis. And the other is that when they said they wouldn't forget that there wasn't a penny of money in the country when Lajos Kósa made that statement. Then why doesn't Lajos Kósa, who is one of the number one leaders of the party, express himself in a normal and fair manner in those moments? Who is he to play with these people's livelihoods when he knew precisely - because you said you knew - that a spoonful of iron was not that the country was practically on the verge of financial bankruptcy? Then why does Lajos Kósa make such statements? Why do you do things that take years to fix, or months to adjust, and you may know better than NGM how much work you need to do? Fellow Members! Where is your political responsibility at that time and your political responsibility for 2010? Because of what the foreign exchange credit crisis did afterwards [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In its solution, we see that it was not helpful for a very large part of the people. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2017-11-06-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Time frame is two minutes and 46 seconds, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2017-11-06-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to repeat the thoughts and arguments made this evening on the pro-government side about the measures that helped foreign exchange creditors. We need to see this, and I would like to reiterate that, as a result of the measures, after the settlement and the forinting, payments decreased by 25 percent on average, this was a significant help. This can be denied and accountable to the government for many, many measures, steps, but most of all this is a reclamation when it comes from the mouth of a woman of Congress who was sitting in the ranks of the faction not so long ago, sitting in the faction where the foreign exchange crisis was otherwise caused, where they could have taken the steps they could have taken between 2006 and 2010, to which these people could have been prevented from getting to these people at the time. [[Márta Demeter: Speak of foreign exchange creditors, Mr State Secretary.]] in The difficult situation that they've had in the last few months or in the last few years. It can also be said as a criticism that the current government has not taken every step to fully resolve all problems. However, I would like to join my fellow Member, Erik Bánki, who said that, of course, the government must also take into account which option it can take in order to solve this problem or the particular problem. [[19.30]] It is necessary to look at the opportunities that the budget offers to solve the problem, and to take advantage of this opportunity, the features, when it gave the government steps by step, taking into account the options, the solutions that foreign exchange lenders could then make use of to a large extent, as it was also said today that government measures helped to solve about one million foreign currency loans. Nor can it be disputed that the end-payment, the exchange rate barrier, the settlement, the forinting saved millions of people behind the credit agreements, hundreds of thousands of families, and helped them in a difficult situation. And it must also be said as a fact that Central European countries, which have had similar problems in recent years or are still struggling today, are still interested in accountability, forinting and any other directing steps. Last week, for example, Poland and Estonia had such a question, curious question and negotiation in the Ministry of National Economy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So others acknowledge the steps that the government, this government, has taken to make it possible for foreign exchange lenders to solve their problems as easily as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-06-266	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group will be followed by Mr Gergely Farkas. Here you go.
u2017-11-06-267	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was very pleased to hear that, for example, my fellow Member Gábor Bányai got away with foreign exchange credit because he took on a different type of loan at the time, but I think that it is more relevant and more important that a lot of people are involved in this trap situation. I, too, walk around the constituency every day, meet people, and listen to stories that really, really ruined a life that someone, say, took a six million forint loan, repaid eight million forints, and still owes millions. But I also see people every day who have already auctioned off someone's house, and they have to move to another place or stay in their apartment. Not to mention how many people have left our country because of the foreign exchange credit problem, trying to make money abroad to pay it back. I would like to hear about this, too, how the government intends to remedy these problems, because it is one thing for you to see that this was a problem, but what is outrageous, is that when they could have helped these people, they did not HUF loans at the rate of admission, but at this rate of 260 HUF, which may have helped some people, but it was not for many tens of thousands of families. I think that this should be dealt with, not explain the certificate, why you can't do more, and you can't do more, because it's a little conflicted with what you hear every day. You know very well, listening to government spokespersons and all sorts of State Secretarys through the public media, that, in your words, the Canaan has already come to Hungary, and we can see here what tangible problems there are. So I think that these two things are a little controversial, and it would be nice to deal with this situation. And I am also sorry that if you are so smart now, then in 2006 you didn't give your word, because, Gábor Bányai, you were here in 2006, and you didn't speak for this case once. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I am very pleased that after 11 years, you will see your mistake, but I think you should have spoken in favour of the people in our constituency. Ask for the floor and give your opinion. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will be followed by Congressman György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group for 3 minutes and 21 seconds.
u2017-11-06-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, To conclude, we can conclude by saying, let us say, that the government has taken into account, as has been said here before by the Secretary of State, various aspects, taking into account, let us say, the budgetary opportunity, the state of the country and all other things, and, depending on that, it has tried to do something to help the foreign exchange victims to ease their situation. But we also need to establish that this is little, and it is not small because we oppositionists say this; because of one single fact it is not enough, and this fact is that there are still tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of families at risk, tens of thousands of families are at risk of eviction, and as long as this possibility exists, no matter how many measures are taken, no matter how many laws we make or any laws we make as long as there is such danger, we must say that this is not enough. That is why I say that it would be a forward-looking state if we could agree that until we can solve this problem and solve the real problem for each family; and I would add that these people are not asking them to give them alms and, say, release their credit, they are asking that they be able to pay the burden on them on the basis of a normal, fair decision. What is a just decision, we should define it together, and that is what we should draw up a programme for, and that is what we should put in place laws and provisions that really help people. But until we can find the right situation - because let us consider that then these provisions that you have made were attempts, and let us be kind, you also believed that this would solve everyone's problems, but you failed, because the facts show that you have failed - but in the meantime, I believe that politics has a dog's duty to protect these people. Dog's duty is to protect these people from procedures that end in eviction; dog's duty is to protect these people from those mafia-like - and let's just say it, mafia-like - people who don't shy away from anything to get their property cheaply, to get their property cheaply. So I am asking you to find a solution to this: until there is a definitive solution for every Hungarian family in this catastrophic situation, in this existential catastrophic situation, it would be a solution, and we will protect these people from falling into the hands of mobsters, these mobsters will take their property, take their property, and send these families to beggars. It's our duty. Protect them and then find a solution to how we can deal with the whole problem. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since there is no other candidate - because there is a group that has a time frame - the political debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add my thoughts to what was said in the last round in a few words. First of all, I thank you for the fact that, at the end, we seem to have calmed down a bit and managed to get back on the ground of a common journey, and even if we did not agree on everything, but it seems that the intention and purpose may have been common, as they have been said. In summary, I can say that, on the basis of the speeches that have been made so far, the government has been driven, on the one hand, to remain within the framework of the law - and on the other hand, if we are thinking of means such as the creation of an asset manager, where we have tried to help those in the most hopeless situation within the budgetary framework, it is also apparent that there, as my fellow Member Erik Bánki said, the possibilities and framework of the budget must be taken into account. And I do not think we should be ashamed, because from where we started in 2010 - a number of my fellow Members said - when we managed to recover from an excessive deficit procedure, a growing public debt, a forced orbit, an unfavourable international credit environment, so we can say that, in fighting a multi-frontal struggle, we have not made any of the measures listed worse, we have been able to bring hundreds of thousands of people out of the situation they were in before. It has also been said here that, for example, they should not lose their property under value, who are in such a situation. My fellow Members know that the last decision has been made that it is not possible to go below the estimated value in virtually these implementations. This is all intended to ensure that, on the one hand, the interests of the debtors are not harmed, so that they do not squat the property at a price, but at the same time do not harm the interests of the creditors. [[19.40]] Therefore, the interests of creditors must be taken into account in the sense that the banks also have the money of depositors - but we may have experienced it in the broker scandals - and once again the budget and the community of taxpayers and citizens bear the burdens that we face. So, overall, I can confirm that if there is a way and opportunity and a solution that is legal and within the budgetary framework, the government has already done everything and will continue to do everything in its power to help those citizens. And I am thinking not only of foreign exchange credentials, but also of all citizens who are affected by natural disasters or social problems, so the budget also has other tasks to deal with, who are at least as fallen and who are at least as miserable as those we have discussed today. And it was worth the debate anyway, because we could get to what we did and what we didn't do. I would also like to ask those present here in the introduction that I have listed what has not been voted on, and I do not want to list again who by name, as it was then said, but if the government has positive initiatives, I would also ask the honourable opposition representatives to be present in the Chamber, and to press a button in the future, as some of them have done before. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-06-272	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of our agendas. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Why does the Government not address the situation of Romanian migrant workers? Mr Gergely Farkas, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-06-273	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With my speech today, I would like to draw attention to a problem that should be dealt with in many settlements of my constituency, but not only in certain settlements of the county of Bács-Kiskun, but also in other parts of the country. This is nothing more than the new phenomena caused by migrant workers from Romania in an increasing number of countries. The result of this situation is migration, which is also a major problem at national level, which could be caused, among other things, by the government, and the resulting shortage of labour in certain sectors. In my constituency, however, agricultural production is very intense, and labour is almost impossible to recruit from the local population because of this emigration and low salaries. In this respect, therefore, there is no doubt that migrant workers are an essential resource for the local economy. There is often a problem here, because they often treat it as taboo that their presence in Hungary and their application creates a situation that a responsible government should deal with. And it is important to say and solve these things, and we should also prevent them from doing so, for the benefit of locals and migrant workers, because I think - and this is what motivated my speech - that it is in everyone's interest, of those workers, of their employers and of the local people. Dear Parliament, What problems do I have in mind that need to be dealt with? As I said, these are mainly migrant workers from Romania, who have to live somewhere. This leads to the first specific problem, the situation of their accommodation. According to the people in my constituency, in some settlements more properties are rented to them, but in one house there are unrealistically many, even dozens of people crowded in, clearly because of the savings. Most people live in small places in poor hygiene conditions. This situation may have occurred, among other things, because the law does not regulate how many square meters per person should reach a minimum within a property. The properties rented to them are inhabited, there is no suitable room for cleaning and rest. In addition, in connection with accommodation, it is unfortunately assumed that rentals are not carried out by official means. It is not a story I hear from the locals that not only the properties they live in are dominated by such terrible circumstances, but also the neighborhoods of the real estate are inhabiting, trashing, and painting an unorganized picture. The conditions that arise here have a negative impact on both the view of the settlement as a whole and on the neighbours as well. Painting housing conditions immediately raises public health issues, because, as I have already said, in overcrowded, dirty and trashy accommodations, a safe hygienic environment cannot be created. Just one example: many are concerned that many measles cases have been registered in Romania again this year. The spread of the epidemic and the spread of it in Hungary is a permanent issue among the locals. Several say that there has already been a case of this disease in a settlement in my constituency. Faced with this, it is clear that the presence of certain migrant workers is not only disturbing to the locals, but also dangerous. In addition to public health issues, I must mention public safety problems. I do not wish to generalise, but it would be hypocritical to avoid that certain elements of the said social class can also cause such problems. In the neighborhoods where they're accommodated, the locals' sense of security is getting worse. Many people say the police don't pay enough attention to migrant workers. Their aggressive behavior due to alcohol consumption has been reported to me by a number of people. There are settlements where the municipality tried to answer this problem by regulation, in which the consumption of alcohol in the public area is regulated, but unfortunately it is more typical that even at the level of regulations the municipalities are unable to adapt to the established conditions. I have also received complaints that when a local resident turned to the police to press charges against a migrant worker, the person who committed the crime was no longer in the territory of the country, returned to Romania or went to another settlement in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, it is important to emphasise once again that it is essential for the economy, unfortunately or not, to employ migrant workers. At the same time, we can see that, after their appearance, a number of questions need to be answered that have not yet happened. My speech was inspired to draw attention to this situation, so that the competent authorities, local governments or even the Parliament could deal with this situation. I trust that the government will not stick its head in the sand, but will deal with the situation with substantial steps that will not make it impossible to employ this workforce, but will create a situation that will create a calm and orderly situation for them, their employers, but especially for local residents. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-06-274	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[19.50]]
u2017-11-06-275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, As you said in the last part of your thought, it is likely that you should have first contacted one of the municipalities concerned or one of the municipalities concerned, or the appropriate body of the government office, in order to prevent these unfortunate conditions from occurring, since they can take action on the ground if there is such experience. Of course, after this has been said in Parliament, I will be the one to tell my colleagues that they may try to check in the next period, when seasonal workers come - because I think this is the problem at that time - to pay more attention to the treatment of this situation, so that this unblessed condition you have painted cannot be repeated. However, I would like to say that a responsible employer - and this is a good example of not only the sad examples - will, of course, pay attention to the seasonal workers, the seasonal workers that he employs at the time when his work is needed, during harvest, during harvest, when the fruit is harvested. One example is that, in addition to renting a flat or renting houses for seasonal workers for the period when these seasonal workers work in a given area, in a given settlement, in a given entrepreneur, they wonder, for example, how they can establish mobile container accommodations that provide adequate comfort, good cleanliness, cleaning facilities for seasonal workers who work for them for several weeks. I think there are many good examples and examples to show that there are not only the bad experiences and bad practices that you have put forward in your speech after the agenda, but there are employers who will expect, in the next season, seasonal workers who have been able to provide adequate quality work in exchange for wages, they will also have the right conditions to accommodate them, and in the few weeks they will have the right living conditions while they work for them, the employer, the entrepreneur and the agricultural entrepreneur. So, while there must be some sad experiences, I say that there is also positive experience of the conditions under which one entrepreneur, one employer, can provide seasonal workers for the period they work for him. Of course, as I said at the beginning of my response, I am signaling this problem, and we are trying to pay more attention in the next period so that the negative experiences or bad experiences that you have brought up here in your speech cannot be repeated. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-06-276	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 13 November 2017. Thank you for your work. All of you wish you a good return home, the meeting will be closed. [[The meeting ended at 7:51 p.m.]]
