u2017-10-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome my fellow Members. The 5th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to everyone who's monitoring our work today and the next day. I declare that the House Rules of Procedure of the Resolution 3. § 2 and Art. On the basis of Article 3 (3) of the Act, the parliamentary group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association elected Mr Gergely Gulyás as Head of the Group from 2 October 2017. Mr Gulyás Gergely was elected as Head of the Group by the parliamentary group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association on 2 October 2017. (Applause. ) I would like to thank Mr Lajos Kósa for his work so far. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to wish Mr Gergely Gulyás Group leader effective work and success. Dear Parliament, In addition, I declare that the individual rules of the house 3. On the basis of Article 4 of the Fidesz Group's Deputy Group Leaders from today I wish to congratulate Mr György Balla, Zoltán Bóna, János Halász, Csaba Hende, István Németh Szilárd and Zsolt Németh, who are both members of the Parliament and I, in my own name, for a successful work. Now, Honourable Parliament, we now have speeches before the agenda. Mr Tamás Sneider, vice-president of Parliament, applied for a speech on the agenda with the title "Respect for the Years" from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-1	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Older people's day is about old people, their respect. Our respect for the walls of this House can mean nothing but calm, thoughtful thinking, debate on the situation of the elderly and its improvement. Remember, we are talking about a layer of our society that has built this country for decades, raised us and counseled us from their life experience. It is our duty to return all the work and sacrifices they have made for the growing generations. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. In the first century, this obligation existed within the family, since the elderly parent's children helped with their work and care. Because of social change, this has become a national task everywhere, financial care has been taken over by the state through the pension system and, in many cases, provision through the operation of the social care system. Pension systems and elderly social services are changing from time to time, as the social and technological situation is changing. In recent decades, there have been a number of legislative changes affecting pensioners or pensioners. Consider the termination of the 13th month pension, the increase in the retirement age, the removal of private pension funds, the abolition of the early retirement pension, the introduction of a single-key tax, the abolition of the pension contribution ceiling or the 40-year benefit for women. These and many other measures have put the older part of our society at risk of new challenges, problems and disadvantages. Answers must be given to the Hungarian Parliament - answers that represent a deliberate but decisive improvement of our economic situation for those living in today's pension. Jobbik has made many suggestions here in this Parliament. We have said many times that there is a need to change the situation of pensioners who, unfortunately, have not been valued by the state during their working years, but rather have been put at a disadvantage, even though they have done the most responsible work in the health, education and social field, in construction, passenger transport and in many other areas, they have to live on a low pension thanks to low wages. As long as our wage Union plan does not help this situation, the social injustice that has affected the working parts of society in an active age must be reduced at least during their retirement years. There is only one fair solution to this: a fair, differentiated pension increase. Low and average pensions do need to be increased in a greater proportion in the coming years than high pensions. The multimillion-dollar luxury pensions created by Fidesz governance must be removed from the public pension system. A decent pension system should include a pension supplement for children who have been raised with honor and work. It is well known that raising children, despite any state aid, entails victimisation, a sacrifice that in many cases causes financial disadvantages, because it results in lower contributions and lower pensions due to falling earnings. To partially compensate for these disadvantages, in order to recognise child rearing, a pension supplement should be included in the pension scheme for those raising children, of course, with the condition that these children become useful members of society. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just presented two concrete proposals before the agenda, but my fellow Members will highlight a number of problems in the course of the day, expressing our position. I wish today to be a tribute to the elderly, to the reality of our thoughts and debates, to the real problems of the elderly, to the real joys of the elderly. This is the day I wish you in Parliament today. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.10]]
u2017-10-02-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Government, Mr Vice-President, before the agenda, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that his sentence, Mr. Congressman, is that you should give respect to the elderly, not at the plenary session of Parliament, but at Jobbik's faction meeting, perhaps not at all, but at least at the moment when you grab a claviculture, sit down in front of your computer, open up Facebook, and think you are saying something hard to insult the elderly, 2.5 million people. I do not know if the terms that Gábor Vona writes about pensioners who have hatred in their eyes are expressing the respect of Jobbik for old age, their mouths are flooded with sewage, and they are puffed up by XX. Every trauma of the century. Honourable Member, the people who are retired today, some of them, after the wars and the fifty-six emissary revolution, have rebuilt Hungary, but for that reason they should be honoured, not throwing things in their face on Facebook by the President of Jobbik, Gábor Vona, who is pissed off at XX. The traumas of the century. They survived this, they deserve respect, because they built the country that we, our age, have been given ready by these people. Or when Gábor Vona, President of Jobbik, mocks the same Facebook entry about how old people drag their shopping baskets after themselves; you know it, because your parents, grandparents, or parents or grandparents of your groupmates [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't sink deeper! You're deep enough!]] They also sometimes come with these little cartoon shopping baskets, and it is inappropriate and inappropriate to make fun of Facebook, not to write posts for a party president to make fun of old people like that. You, too, felt that this was very, very much out of line with what a politician could afford, with many, many orders of magnitude, which is why a counterproposal was immediately put in place to reduce the right to vote, to divert attention from this public address, but, indeed, honourable Member, even though their home interpreters said that Gábor Vona made this remark in order to encourage young people to vote, it was not possible either, because according to two thirds of young people, what Gábor Vona wrote against pensioners was offensive, and the majority of better people would have preferred to ask for forgiveness. So today's speech could have started with nothing but an apology for which your party president not only described it, but repeated it several times. Not only would their local politicians apologize to pensioners locally for making such hurtful, insulting and disrespectful comments by the party president, but all of them, on the spot, have repeated this as a parrot commando. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpát: Let's hear the answer!]] Why, in this Parliament, you make such a different sound than when your party president is in an honest moment, you yourself said a few years ago when you said the following literally:.When I talk about how to communicate, for example, the elderly are here again - he says: "You can't win a vote without them, because there are so few middle-aged and young, unfortunately, fewer people are going to vote, so that the retirement population can form a government on its own. To address them, you have to be a nice, cute kid. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's how Jobbik became a political product, not honest respect, not a commitment from the inside, but a simple political product; and that's how Roy becomes a cute, cute little kid who can be touched. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Jobbik: Are you talking about this? If anyone is far from being honest, it's you! Habony!]] That is why all such manifestations of Jobbik are not credible. This is a simple pre-election vote; when they have an honest moment, then, of course, they speak as Gábor Vona wrote out. [[Dóra Dúró: What did the Mayor of Szolnok say? A statement from Jobbik: Shame on you!]] your own Facebook page. When they might have had the opportunity to act here in Parliament to help the elderly, say, on 20 December 2010 at 7:30 p.m., women could have been supported to retire after 40 years, which you are laughing at now, and 204 192 people did not laugh at it, but were happy about. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: We are not laughing at this, but at you! We're laughing at you!]] they didn't support it here. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] in Parliament. They sat here and didn't support him, by name István Apáti [[Dr. István Apáti: Don't take my name in your mouth.]] Tibor Bana, Dúró Dóra, Zsolt Egyed, Gergely Farkas, Márton Gyöngyösi, Csaba Gyüre, Loránt Hegedűs, Lajos Kepli, Gergely Kulcsár, Zoltán Magyar, Tamás Sneider, so you, representative, György Szilágyi, György Vágó Sebestyén, János Volner, Dániel Z. Kárpát. The entire Jobbik fraction when it came to the vote was not expected by the elderly who wanted to spend those few years with their grandson, their child. [[Tamás Sneider: Can you talk about something serious?]] when they're still active [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And when they retire young, they can help their families. The Jobbik are the elderly, the pensioners can't count on it. [[György Szilágyi: You lie night, day and night! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the MSZP Group, Mr Lajos Korózs has applied for a speech on the agenda with respect for the elderly. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-5	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, I think the World Elderly Day deserves to be remembered with dignity by Parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári turning to the benches of Jobbik: This is not your topic! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks turning to Dr. Bence Rétvári: But it's not yours!]] Not splashes, not throwing up each other's mistakes, but the greetings of the elderly should be filled with the comments before the agenda from each faction. For my part, the first sentence is a greeting, and the second sentence is a thank you. Thanks to the elderly people who keep the family together, who are forced to reach into their wallets and finance the daily lives of their children and grandchildren. Thank you to these elderly people who have really carried this country on their shoulders for decades. For my part, after the greeting, allow me, Mr Secretary of State or Mr President, to discuss some of the things that, in my view, make the society of the elderly uncomfortable; Parliament must also be interested in solving these problems. One of them's gonna be working on my pension. We need to talk about the unblessed state of health, although the duration of the pre-meeting is not a good time to talk about this in an expansive way; and we need to talk about older policy. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. István Apáti: Wipe your mouth if you say it. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[13.20]] Allow me to mention a few things first in relation to pension matters. Yes, I see as a problem that in 2012 the pension system below the age limit in Hungary has ceased. Hundreds of thousands of people's lives are made impossible by this government decision. Yes, I find it a problem that there is no pension below the age limit in Hungary today, there is no reduced amount of early retirement pension, and there is no early and early retirement. I think these four years have confirmed me, because trade unions, employers' organisations, have consistently demanded that the government take action in this matter, because it is not fair that a person over 65 years of age, if he has not reached his retirement age, and if he loses his job, his existence, he cannot retire, even if he has 43 to 44 years of working time, because today he can only retire at an age limit in Hungary. I see that as a problem. I also find it a problem that those who sacrifice their health at work do not receive a service-time discount, all the more so because the early retirement pension has ceased. Dear friends, I also believe that in the future, with the involvement of interest representatives, the Hungarian government will have a dog duty, in consultation with employers' and employees' organisations, for those who work in particularly harmful jobs, to provide an age discount for the future. The next problem I see is that for nine years now, the minimum rate of old-age pension has remained unchanged, HUF 28 500. I've told you several times in this House that it's a shame to even say it. It is all the more a shame to say so, because according to the social law, there is a lot of benefits that have been assigned to this, and these benefits have not increased for nine years. And although inflation is now low in the last few years, please do not forget that in nine years the value of these benefits and social transfers has lost at least a quarter of their value, and this must be discussed honestly. And I think it's a problem to work alongside a pension. Not only because in some system of public administration, I am sure you know, fellow Members, if someone takes a job, they must give up their pension and have only a wage. But let's take one thing into account: each worker who has worked for years, decades and paid contributions has bought his pension, and consequently, that pension is his or her pension, regardless of whether he or she has a job as a pensioner or does not have a job as a pensioner. And in the sub-schemes operated by the state, there is now a shortage of labour that I recommend to the government parties to lift this restriction, because there is a shortage of doctors, because there is a shortage of workers in health care, because there is a shortage of teachers in the country. What I see is that there are some cases in which consensus could be found, only intelligent people would have to engage in meaningful discourses. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-10-02-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-7	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We can only agree that the generation that carried Hungary on its back for decades deserves all the support and has rebuilt the country on several occasions. The government has therefore maintained its commitment to protect, protect the value of pensions and reduce their financial burden by reducing the cost of the basic food and by reducing the VAT on basic foods. I would also like to mention to you, honourable Member, that the price of over a thousand medicines has decreased in recent years. You've made a lot of suggestions over the last few minutes, but on behalf of the party that took away a month's pension from the elderly. As we recall, you were working as a secretary of state. It is typical of the Socialist Party that during the period, the year that this decision was made, there was a month - October - when they said on the 5th that the 13th month pension would remain, and then, on the 29th, the same month, it was announced that it would be abolished. What can you believe now? You raised the point that between 2007 and 2010, when you had the opportunity to put these measures into practice, the real value of pensions decreased by 8.5 percent. And to make it worse, you refer to the elderly and to health care by making health care pay. Of the people who are supposed to be sitting here in the group, Zoltán Gőgös, István Hiller, Attila Mesterházy voted in favour of the visit fee, and, honourable Member, you voted in favour of the visit fee. That's how much you cared about the elderly back then. And their duplicity is well characterized by the fact that a sentence was not said when Gábor Vona insulted the elderly to the blood, he said that sewage flows from their mouths and radicalizes. What did the MSZP say? All they could say was they don't do party business. That was their reaction. The MSZP as a party does not deal with party affairs. Well, that's how much you're interested in the situation of pensioners. Dear House, Allow me to ask you one more question here, because the MSZP has generously forgotten the most important event of the day after all, that our candidate for Prime Minister has failed today, and it might have been worth informing the public of the reasons for this. The thing is, no one is surprised at this resignation, not even you, because after all these scandalous cases, it was a straight way to resign. Because László Botka was not an eccentric socialist, he was the same as any other socialist leader: he was a corrupt and constrained maniac. All he could offer the Hungarians was to raise taxes, so that the people from work would draw the short straw again. We don't know who you're going to pick from the hat, but it's like we're already seeing the top of Ferenc Gyurcsány's head. But whoever's being pulled out, the next candidate will be the same as the others, because everything on the left is the same. They don't learn, they don't forget, and they kill each other for the rest of the political bones. Dear Members of the MSZP, You will probably spend the next few weeks fighting, which is an internal matter of the MSZP, but in the meantime, we would like to ask you one thing in any case, to clear Csaba Czeglédy's case. This is one of the main members of the MSZP, who is sitting in custody because he is suspected to have lost HUF 3 billion, and what makes this case particularly serious is that there are students among the victims. Now, that's the real face of the MSZP! Here in the Parliament, they refer to justice in the case of pensioners and young people, and in the background, they operate a system of disincentives for students. It's hard to find words for that. Csaba Czeglédy was known to have worked with the faces of many leaders of the MSZP, not only represented László Botka, but also Ference Gyurcsány and Attila Mesterházy, and Mr Gőgős and Készve worked with him in campaigns. Mr. Belling, who is the chief of staff of László Botka in civil matters, has repeatedly been with this tax criminal to ask for all kinds of documents in ministries. Meanwhile, you didn't have a word to say that the students had been stolen, and hundreds of students were waiting for their salary in vain. Dear House, Dear Members of the MSZP, The next few weeks or maybe months will be spent in an act full of treason, full of treason, full of violence in a soap opera, before a nasty prime minister's casting, but we would ask you to have time during this time to apologize to injured students and to think about how they will be compensated. We wish you all the best of luck at this job. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The National Minimum of Elderly Affairs! Mr Schmuck, from the LMP Group, spoke before the agenda. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 1991, the UN General Assembly declared 1 October the World Older People's Day to draw attention to the situation of older people, the importance of dignified ageing in a world where age is increasingly being pushed out. At home, the question of what the growing elderly society has to offer for a normal, decent living is becoming increasingly central. The government's speeches and actions about the elderly always reveal one thing, namely that they have no idea of the life situation of the elderly, their daily problems, but they do more about how they can put retired voters behind Fidesz. The old policy of the government is that it does not have an elderly policy. There's something to talk about. According to KSH data, the proportion of older people living in income poverty has increased in recent years. We know from the data that a significant proportion of 2.6 million people who receive pension or pension-like care, more than 1 million people receive a pension below 100 thousand forints. The pension of two thirds of old-age pensioners is below 120 thousand forints, and we have not yet talked about pensions below 50 thousand forints. We're talking about 70,000 people here. [[13.30]] Older people's livelihoods are fundamentally determined by the amount of pension. If we add that a large proportion of the elderly live alone, then the picture is even darker. An elderly man living alone must pay the gas fee, the electricity bill, the housing costs. After paying the bills, the other significant item is the money spent on medicines, which could cost up to 20-30 thousand forints. It is no wonder that a large proportion of pensioners rarely have meat on their table, but they also have to consider how much bread and milk they buy. Meanwhile, the government is talking about maintaining the purchasing value of pensions, talking about a pension supplement and a pension premium. It does not add that the minimum pension has not been increased since 2008, it has been 28 500 forints since then. The government also silences the fact that it deliberately underdesigned inflation last year so that it could grant a pension supplement in November as it approached the elections. He is also deeply silent about why the benefits of economic growth only give premium pensions above 3.5 per cent of GDP and, if economic growth is reduced, why pensioners do not benefit from it. But it's not just the low pensions. The quality of life of older people also depends on other factors. Here, for example, is the catastrophic situation in the health and social sector. Elderly people really feel the lack of doctors, nurses from the health care system, and the length of waiting times. I'm not even going to mention the lack of skilled labour. Dear House, I meet a lot of old people in my country. I feel the powerless anger against the government's misguided wage policy and social policy when the elderly talk about being completely on their own. Even though they have children, they go abroad to work, and they stay there, and grandchildren are born there. And what hurts most is when old people admit that they also supported their children in leaving the country. The LMP was the first to join the proposals of the National Retirement Parliament. We stand to have a minimum programme for older people, which includes legal guarantees to ensure a decent living for the elderly, care and security for the elderly. We have made our first five-point proposal: recognition of the constitutional right to a pension, raising the minimum pension to HUF 50,000, a fairer pension increase, re-enabled income from a pension in the public sector, abolishing rules limiting work for pre-age beneficiaries and developing a new system of early retirement. We consider these steps to be a minimum. And we do not ask, but we expect the government to support these proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The secretary-general, Bence Rétvári, responds to his speech before the agenda on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think an old-age national minimum or a basic pension issue could be that no one's pension is reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of the two of us, I wasn't the deputy state secretary of a socialist-liberal government, you were. You worked in the MSZP-SZDSZ government that, after a while, took away a month's pension from pensioners. I am not saying that you had a direct role to play in this, but you still shared with that political group, the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Alliance of Free Democrats, the state leaders and deputy state secretary in their government, who took a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners and all Hungarian citizens. So I think when we talk about what is the minimum that a government should guarantee to pensioners, it is that the value of pensions does not decrease. I believe there is another Member in your group who has come from around the house of the MSZP, who can discuss among themselves how they can assess this issue now, from their current sitting position and from their position. Fidesz-KDNP made the commitment for all Hungarian pensioners who had to suffer from the withdrawal of a one-month pension from the socialist-liberal government in 2008-2009 to preserve the purchasing power of pensions. We have fulfilled this commitment, since in recent years the amount of pensions has increased by 23.1 percent, and if we take down the value of the loss of money under the pension basket, we will find a 9.5 percent increase in the value of purchases by pension basket, i.e. almost 10 percent. So not only has Fidesz-KDNP preserved the value of pensions, but it has also been raised. I think it's a minimum expectation for all governments. Obviously, I'm a little surprised that the LMP suddenly started dealing with pensioners and elderly people, there wasn't much of any of the ideas or suggestions in your election programs you've been talking about. Of course, there were conflicting allegations. One said that there was no particular problem with the pension system or that there was no problem with the elderly, and then the opposite was written at other times. But the election is coming, the Momentum is at the corner of the LMP, so it looks like they're making more pre-election propaganda promises, trying to gain some advantage over the Momentum to get into Parliament in six months' time. If we compare the value of pensioners' pensions compared to those of workers in the active labour market, and when they retire, what percentage of their salary is paid, we see that the decline or difference in Hungary is much smaller than in the European Union in general. After all, pensions in the EU account for 57 percent of salaries and almost 70 percent in Hungary. So the difference between pay and pension is much smaller in Hungary than in Western Europe. But it is worth looking at not only the revenues, but also the expenses, because the reduction of the rent has made it easier for many elderly people to live on their weekdays. You can see on your gas bill, on your electricity bill, the amount you saved thanks to the reduction in your overhead. This must be measured in the order of hundreds of thousands in most cases. For a retirement couple who use natural gas, the annual savings are HUF 88,000, and in the case of heating with district heating, HUF 83 thousand per year. For a retired couple, if in a family house natural gas is heated, more than 100 thousand forints is the average saving. This is what stays in the pocket of pensioners, not wandering to foreign multinationals. It was also an important proposal for the government, which was voted only by the majority of the Parliament's Fidesz-KDNP, with a discount of 40, with which 204 thousand ladies have lived. It is important that in the Erzsébet program we were able to offer 210,000 pensioners holiday and relaxation opportunities. With the job protection action plan, we were able to preserve the value of pensions so that we no longer have to face unemployment as much as before, as employers can ensure the employment of 7 out of 10 people facing pensions on the basis of the benefits of the job protection action plan. So 7 out of 10 employees over 55 were kept in work by a government program. We spent HUF 183 billion on this in four years, and this surplus is in the pension of pensioners, pensioners of the future. But I could mention the reduction in VAT on basic foods or the increase in the social security support for medicines, which all served the safety of old age. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the KDNP Group, Member Miklós Soltész, Christian Democrats spoke before the agenda entitled Against the Soros Plan. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In recent years, in recent months and days, all the opposition's parties, the Socialists, Jobbik, LMP, Gyurcsányek have stood up for illegal immigration and stood for resettlement. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[13.40]] The opposition parties, together with their masters in Brussels, and the now wailing bettermen, deny the existence of a Soros plan. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] Questions and facts are raised in the national consultation. People need to know what George Soros wants. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] What's the consequence? We'd like to know how you feel about all this. We know Jobbike, honourable Members, better Members, you have not voted in favour of the laws, laws, constitutional amendments that have resulted in the protection of people over the last few years. Thank you very much, you have already given your opinion. However, people rightly expect to respond and express their views on the following. György Soros wants to get Brussels to deploy at least one million immigrants from Africa and the Middle East to Europe every year, including Hungary. Soros said on this matter: "In the foreseeable future, the European Union must accept at least one million asylum seekers per year. The second question is whether it is true that, together with the leaders in Brussels, it also wants the EU Member States, including Hungary, to break down border fences and open borders for immigrants. György Soros said that the aim of our plan is to protect refugees, and national borders are the obstacle. György Soros also pays attention to the fact that Brussels is obliged to distribute the quota, and also to send immigrants from Western European countries to Hungary. He said: "If this does not become a permanent and mandatory element of the common EU asylum system, it will collapse. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Soros plan also considered that 9 million forints of aid should be given to immigrants for two years overall. Mr Soros said: "The EU should provide EUR 15,000 per asylum seeker per year for the first two years to cover accommodation, health care and educational costs. György Soros is also concerned that if a country is entitled to take action against an illegally crossing the border, because he says that the application of serious legal consequences related to illegal entry is a concern. And it is worth pointing out one more thing. György Soros and his plan are aimed at overcoming the language and culture of European countries so that the integration of illegal immigrants can take place as soon as possible. He said: "The decline in the authority of the nation states is a welcome development. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, The Christian Democratic People's Party, together with Fides, has an answer. On the one hand, he asks people what they think about these issues, what they think about George Soros's plan. On the other hand, we have the answer to where to help. Where there is trouble, so in the Middle East, as Christian leaders, Christian priests, and Christian high priests ask us to help you locally. We repair schools, churches, build hospitals, and build water-cleaning facilities in these countries, and teach young people from these countries who have been in trouble in recent years. The decision that György Soros supports will determine the lives of some countries, including this region, for decades and centuries. It's irreversible! The bad economic policy that our ancestors, the socialist-liberal government, have done has been restored, but it is irreversible. There's no repair here. How many terrorist attacks do we have to take to bring the opposition to its senses? How many terrorist attacks must take place to bring the cute-looking Jobbik, the MSZP and the other liberal parties to their senses? [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] We don't expect an answer from you because we already have. I'm sure people will definitely give it to us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Soltész, State Secretary Bence Rétvári, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There are opposition political forces, and we can even say that this is true of all opposition political forces, who deny the existence of the Soros plan, but in general those who denied the compulsory quota system a year ago, and two years ago denied all immigration. At the same time, however, there are Hungarian political parties, Hungarian political opposition forces who applaud quotas, or at least compromise, and would allow the compulsory quota system to prevail in Hungary. The Gyurcsány Party has been specifically in addition to quotas since the first moment, they have also collected signatures, Ferenc Gyurcsány proudly proclaimed at the head of the Democratic Coalition that I accept the EU quota. On 10 November 2015, the opposition formation called Együtt announced that it would start collecting signatures with EU quotas. The bill on the launch of the quota trial here in Parliament was not supported by representatives of left-wing parties, opposition parties, MSZP, DK, Együtt, PM, Liberals and LMP. Then Gábor Vona also said on 19 January 2017 in a program of the RTL Club about the quota system that we are talking about a few thousand people, I say that it is okay to think about it. This was Gábor Vona's literally answer to the quota question on 19 January this year. According to Gyula Molnár, president of the Hungarian Socialist Party, that can't be done, I quote literally:. What I don't think can be done for a country is that it just takes the benefits out of something, and then, when it comes to commitment, they don't commit to it. I think that in cooperation, if there are elements that are not so favourable to Hungary, they must sometimes be accepted. This is how Gyula Molnár, president of the MSZP, would accept the mandatory quotas. In September 2015, LMP MEP Tamás Meszerics said that the LMP cannot imagine the solution to the crisis other than the introduction of a mandatory quota system. Viktor Szigetvári also said on 25 July 2015 that a well-functioning quota should be the solution. A member of the Board of Directors of the Momentum also said that Hungary should accept a few thousand people. It is therefore clear that each opposition party either applauds quotas or accepts the introduction of quotas. Some of them have a little begging dance before the implementation of György Soros's plan, but others do not. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] György Soros said that national borders are the biggest obstacle to the implementation of his plan, he said in September 2015. On 30 October 2015, he told the Bloomberg news agency that the Hungarian border closure is in the way of György Soros in the implementation of the Soros plan, so he will do everything in his power to break down the fence, and he seems to keep that promise, as he has been doing everything in his power over the past two years to break down the Hungarian fence. We know the incentives that the Soros plan would put in place. It would give EUR 15,000 a year, i.e. HUF 9 million a year to all those who go to Europe and arrive here and want to settle down. This quota is considered to be permanent and mandatory, as was announced by George Soros to the Financial Times in July 2015 and made a proposal a year later in Brussels on 30 June 2016 to reduce agricultural and cohesion expenditure in order to cover the costs of migration. The Hungarian government rejects the Soros plan. We do not believe that the solution is the introduction, that the introduction is not the solution for anything. On the one hand, nothing can be forced against people's will. Because a handful of liberals in Brussels think that this is good for European people, because a handful of liberals in Budapest think that this can be good or good or acceptable, regardless of whether it is in the interests of the Hungarian people or not in the will of the Hungarian people. Both in the referendum and in the national consultation, there was an earlier opinion on compulsory resettlement quotas. Now, however, the Hungarian government needs the support of the Hungarian people in its fight against the Soros Plan, so it is important that while other countries implement the Soros Plan, they become a pro-immigration country, Hungary protects its borders, protects its culture, its economy and its identity, and, above all, its security. And for those people who live in difficult conditions, we are trying to help people, health care, hospitals, school building, the reconstruction of the city of Telskuf, so that everyone can thrive in their homeland. Hungary has already made bigger commitments in this regard than, for example, Italy announced last week for the future worth EUR 6 million. This is already surpassed by the amounts we have made and transferred so far. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2017-10-02-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the opposition, Mr Gulyás Gergely, Head of the Group of the Fidesz Group, entitled 'non-existent quota', has applied for a speech before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-17	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I have to start with a personal confession, because I had certain doubts as to whether I should take the lead of the faction. But if anyone had told me that this would automatically involve the withdrawal of the PM's candidate, I would have had no doubt about it. but it is undoubtedly true that there are more authentic explanations within the lines of the Socialist Party. For example, Tibor Szanyi expressed that László Botka was alarmed by his own immediate environment, and his withdrawal was due to this. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] We do not want to get involved in these debates - but we are talking about another party - deeper than is necessary; we see that while the Left sank into total chaos six to seven months before the elections, they cannot answer the most important questions in the country in the same way as they did not give a year or two ago. Two years ago, two and a half years ago, we heard in the spring of 2015 that immigration is not a real problem, it does not exist, it is being forced by the governing parties. For two and a half years, Polish, German and Austrian electoral campaigns have not had any more important issues than immigration. Subsequently, last year, before the referendum, the left-wing representatives urged me to stay away because they claimed that there was no mandatory quota. Bertalan Tóth, the leader of the group, went out earlier, but it may be because he already knew from the title that he should probably be summoned, too; he said quite aptly, briefly and succinctly: "There will be no mandatory resettlement quota and there will be no. Mr Ujhelyi Vice-President - former Vice-President after his resignation today -: There will be and will not be any mandatory quota. Member Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi: The question of the referendum on quota is bogus, since there is neither a compulsory quota nor a compulsory quota. In comparison, on 6 September the Court of Justice of the European Union decided that there is a mandatory quota for 120,000 people. It is true that it exists as a temporary measure and on a temporary basis, but we know precisely that, my fellow Members, there is the European Commission's presentation on the table of the European Parliament, which would make the exact same mechanism without a cap. Perhaps it would have been better if you had not played in the last year to render the referendum invalid - although, I add, the number of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian voters have taken an unprecedented stand against the mandatory quota - but had helped the Hungarian nation to speak with one voice against the otherwise existing European Union plan, which was then disputed by you, but which otherwise existed. And what we see now is that when the intention of resettlement is before us, they are debating the existence of the Soros plan. But this debate is the simplest, because in fact it is not a question of faith, but a question of reading knowledge: the author wrote it himself - it is enough to read his plans; after a longer presentation by Secretary of State here, George Soros's own composition, it is a pity to quote it longer - we therefore think that immigration is a matter of fate both for the country and for Europe. We note that there are countries within the European Union who give different answers to the issue of immigration. We insist that Hungary can give its own answer. We have never transferred any powers in immigration to the European Union, but in the case of refugees. It wasn't us, despite all opposition charges, it wasn't us who confused migrants with refugees. It was the European Commission that celebrated the anarchy in the summer of 2015 and the Schengen Treaty had a foothold of good European behaviour, and those were the bad Member States - mainly Hungary - who thought that they would fulfil their obligations under the international treaty. We therefore believe that, now that the plan for a mandatory quota without cap is still on the table, when Vice-President Timmermans is debating this, but only after he has received George Soros and stepped out of the room named after him, where he gave a presentation on the future of Europe, it would be good to have a full cooperation on immigration at least and not to dispute the fact of it, nor the fact of the compulsory quotas, nor the existence of a plan written by George Soros himself. Finally, I am pleased that, in Parliament, at least words seem to agree on our obligation to respect the elderly. The generations ahead may have had to carry the fate of the country on their shoulders in times of difficulty. I would therefore also like to pay my respects on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, and I hope that the opposition's behaviour will not give us any reason to question this on other days of the year. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to Mr Gergely Gulyás's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear Chief of Staff, We also think about it a lot, but we still do not know why the opposition denies the dangers of immigration and indeed risky proposals for us, while voting in Brussels against the interests of the country. At the moment, all opposition parties are singing in Canon that György Soros doesn't have any plans, and besides, there is no plan for EU leaders, despite the fact that they were written, everyone can read the proposals on the Internet. The same left, the same opposition, which, by the way, said to the cameras with a large breast, said that immigration is not a problem, it is a pseudo problem, as Congresswoman Kunhalmi said, or Csaba Horváth said. Then they claimed that there was no resettlement programme. Almost a year ago, the MSZP issued a communication stating that the Union made it clear that it was not thinking about quotas, so the referendum is like trying to prevent snowfall in the summer. Excellent and clever metaphor, too bad the Socialist Party uses it for lies. Bertalan Tóth confidently stated that there will be no mandatory quota and there will be no quota. However, there are dozens of facts that contradict the opposition's dissenting position and misleading voters. The judgment was delivered in the quota trial, as Mr. Group leader pointed out, and it is clear that they want to push compulsory, compulsory quotas down our throats, and they also speak openly about increasing the size of the resettlements as a next step, so that they can finally abolish the limit. Moreover, the most scandalous thing about the opposition's denial is that in recent months they voted quietly in favour of quota support resolutions in Brussels. MSZP, DK, PM and LMP supported them in the votes, even supported financial penalties for a country that refuses to participate in resettlement programmes. Meanwhile, the MSZP has promised an international news agency that if it were to become a government, it would break down the southern border barrier, which is one of the main guarantees of Hungarian security now. That's how it is now. We do not have too much confidence that the opposition will change its behaviour, but we ask the opposition not to try to deny that there are people in Europe who want to address Europe's labour market problems through immigration. György Soros also wrote this and read it. Do not try to deny that the Hungarian border closure is also under serious political attack and that you are otherwise partners in this. Nor are they trying to deny that there is a proposal on which every immigrant would receive funding of HUF 9 million in two years from the EU, the Member States, i.e. from our money, and this would cost HUF 9 million in education, health and housing costs. This is the amount of money for which a Hungarian person works for many years. If they tried to deny them, they would only prove that if they were in power, they would give up this position in three weeks; they would really give up the castle in such a way as to break down the walls a little before it would give way to the introductions, and they would also allocate budgetary resources to this. In the fight against illegal immigration, it seems very much now that opposition parties can no longer be relied upon, which is why we are turning to the citizens again, so we are asking everyone to participate in the consultation despite opposition mischief, because the opposition that denies reality and supports dangerous plans cannot be trusted with the security of Hungary, but nothing else. Because László Botka may have failed today, but the resettlement plans are still alive, so we must act again. Thank you for listening. [[György Szilágyi: Ask Navracsics! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2017-10-02-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speeches outside the agenda. Here you go, notary.
u2017-10-02-21	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Imre Horváth, MSZP; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; György Szilágyi, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda on Tuesday, the following representatives came forward: László Varga, MSZP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik.
u2017-10-02-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of a minister to the Parliament. Now I'm going to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript. Here you go, notary.
u2017-10-02-23	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that, pursuant to Article 9 (four) (c) of the Fundamental Law and Article 16 (7) - on the proposal of the Prime Minister - I appointed Lajos Kósa as Minister without a wallet with effect from 2 October 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: Long live!]] Budapest, September 23, 2017 Sincerely: János Áder [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-02-24	Dear Parliament, In part, I ask my fellow Member to try to restrain himself. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You're pleased.]] On the other hand, I would like to inform you that, last week, Lajos Kósa, Minister-designate, has been heard and supported by the Economic Committee. Now the solemn oath and the oath will be signed. I ask Minister Lajos Kósa to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. Mr Lajos Szűcs, I ask you to read out the text of the oath and the Parliament to stand up and listen to the oath as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Some of the people in the gallery remain seated.]] All those in the gallery, please stand up. [[It's happening. Lajos Kósa steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2017-10-02-25	I, Lajos Kósa, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-26	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I ask Minister Lajos Kósa to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Lajos Kósa and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] Dear Parliament, For the new mandate of Minister Lajos Kósa, I wish both Parliament and myself effective work and good luck. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's an obvious majority. I declare that the Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The election of the Vice-President of the Parliament responsible for the legislative process follows. I would like to inform you that Gergely Gulyás has resigned from his office as Vice-President of the Parliament and Chairman of the Legislative Committee as of today. I would like to thank Mr Gergely Gulyás Group leader for his activities and useful work so far. [[A round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties and the independent representatives.]] Dear Parliament, S/17643. The Speaker of the National Assembly initiates the election of MEP Csaba Hende as Vice-President of the Parliament responsible for the legislative process. According to the regulations of the House, a proposal amending the proposal cannot be tabled, and Parliament decides on this without debate. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether Csaba Hende will be elected Vice-President of Parliament responsible for the legislation. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Csaba Hende with 150 votes against, 2 votes against and without abstention to the Vice-President of Parliament responsible for the legislation. Allow me to congratulate Vice-President Csaba Hende on behalf of the Parliament and myself. I wish you every success in your work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gulyás Gergely gracias Hende Csaba.]] I declare that by electing Csaba Hende as Vice President, he has become President of the Legislative Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the election of Commission officials and members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the regulations of the House, the President of the Legislative Committee is to be decided separately by the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/17644. As proposed by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, Csaba Hende will be elected president. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Csaba Hende as Chairman of the Legislative Committee by 152 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is now up to the election of further members of the Committee. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Széchenyi Dezső to present the S/17644. Additional content of personal proposal No 1. Here you go, notary.
u2017-10-02-27	1. 13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: the National Assembly to the Hungarian Defence and Police Committee Lajos Kósa - Fidesz - instead of Németh István Szilárd - Fidesz - Chairman of the Committee; Erzsébet Schmuck - LMP - instead of Márta Demeter - LMP - Vice-President of the Committee; László Varju - independent - elects Erzsébet Schmuck - LMP - to be an independent member of the Committee. [[14.10]] 2. Point 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects, instead of Csaba Hende, Fidesz, Dr. László Salacz, Vice-President of the committee, Dr. László Salacz, Fidesz, instead of Tamás László, Fidesz, member of the committee. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 2 October 2017, Kövér László.
u2017-10-02-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts S/17644. Number 1 personal proposal, as just read. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 158 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. I congratulate the elected Members on their position. I wish you every success and success in the name of the Parliament and in my own name. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of reports. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Committee for Sustainable Development. The 1995 XCIII on the restoration of the level of protection of protected natural areas. B/17419 on the implementation of the law For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision on the report by 116 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Committee on Agriculture - B/17568 on food chain security and the use of food chain monitoring fees. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision on the report by 116 votes in favour, 42 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:13 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the House Rules of Decision 121. Ms Ágnes Vadai K/17369. He rejected the written question No.3 as the motion was not part of the mandate of the Government. Dear Parliament, Congressman József Tobias, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - How much has the government saved on disabled pensioners in the last eight years? Was it worth calling a social group of hundreds of thousands a fraud? It's an address. Congressman Tobias József, please.
u2017-10-02-29	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is an unusual form in this House that the answers to the interpellation are also written in advance, and even the one-minute ones, the questions and the immediate questions. So I'd like to be formal and preemptive to the responder so he can tell us that that's not what it says here, but I really don't feel like telling the mantras and listening to what we've known for years. There is a much simpler question: the question is, what have you been spending your last eight years of disability money on? Why were you able to transfer them to health insurance and eliminate their acquired rights? Why did you like being inhuman? Why did you like to make money for small trains, stadiums, and luxury investments, but with people who suffer from self - fault health damage - and I'm talking about pre-age pensioners - what today? That's the only question. You said in 2010 that you wish not only to preserve the value of pensions, but also to provide social security to all pensioners, including disabled pensioners. However, 200,000 people have been distracted from 2012 to review, and you have sought to develop complex aspects of investigation, which, rather than being helped, have become even worse and are out of care. Today, people with disability are on sick leave. Mr. Secretary. I get it: now you're going to read what we've done in the last eight years, I mean, almost 16 years. There's nothing wrong with it - do it, it's your soul's business. But it should be said once and for all that the 200,000 people in Hungary today can expect; can you expect the programme of disability pensions that you have adjusted and promised next year, which sounds to be: we acknowledge the failure to transform the disabled system, and thus launch a complex programme in the year of election. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Mr. Secretary. The HUF 22 800 is against the HUF 27 thousand - what are you talking about? ! Answer me, why doesn't what's going on in the budget go to someone else turn on the disabled pensioners? I don't have any other questions. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer on behalf of the government from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-31	Thank you very much. It was a rare criticism that even the MSZP representative was tired of the speeches made by the MSZP here within the walls of Parliament. [[József Tobias: I'm bored of you!]] We can understand that, but allow me to remind you, as the former leader of the Hungarian Socialist Party and the former leader of the group, what he said on the government about the disability pension situation is one of the politicians of the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh! Eight years...]] I see that's the most painful thing for you when you have to hear your own words back. On February 12, 2007, your prime minister said on the issue of disabled pensioners: "If there is a scandal, then the fact that every third pensioner is disabled today, and every second of the latter is still active, could work. Then why didn't you speak, honourable Member? Then why didn't you say those words that sounded like fire? But let us look at your Minister, Erika Szűcs, who formulated the following on 29 September 2008, in advance, also completely contrary to what you have said here in the last few minutes:. By the way, the restoration of working capacity and employment is a European trend, which is confirmed not only by the needs of the economy, but also by the daily experience of all of us, what is the real expectation of society in the case of more than 400 thousand disabled people of working age. This expectation is clear. Please, listen, Congressman, because I quote your minister. If you are able to work, you can work and work; there should be more taxpayers, so that you can make a decent living out of less taxes for your fellow countrymen who are no longer helped by rehabilitation. It's our social agenda, and it's not saving money. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the MSZP.]] I would like to refer to your question here, in which you asked how much savings are made with this measure. But then a little later, just a year later, at the beginning of July 2009, your Minister, Erika Szűcs, also said - not here in Parliament, but in Szécs - who you supported with his vote: in Hungary there are nearly 1 million people of working age who are more or less capable of working and yet live on social income. In English: one million people were lured down by your social minister in 2009. Of course, you didn't say anything. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It is 2017.]] But let me also quote one of his current factions, Lajos Korózs... [[Moore, clarity and interruptions from the benches of the MSZP, among other things: Finally!]] Don't miss Congressman Korózs. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] On 9 December 2008, a little after Santa Claus, he said that here in Parliament [[Dr. László Kács: Three days...]] Lajos Korózs:. Of course, I know that in the years after the change of regime, a lot of people have fled into invalid retirement, but in the long run, there can be no perspective for a society that if there are fluctuations in the labour market, or because its knowledge cannot be converted, or because its health is somewhat reduced, the only escape route is that we are going to the disabled pension. [[14.20]] Unfortunately, in the 1970s, this was done by workers in England, and the English had already realized that this was not the right direction. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable Congressman, Your fellow political groups, former socialist members of the government, have made a clear statement contrary to what you have just said here in Parliament. Obviously, we can only confirm what we have always known that the Hungarian Socialist Party does not have particularly principles or directions, and what it thinks is popular is always what it says. Even now, for the purpose of obtaining a vote, he contradicts his fellow political group, whether he contradicts his former minister or former prime minister, the words that have been said here in Parliament. However, we tried to guarantee security for everyone, whatever age, in the event that he had previously received a disability pension. Pension benefits are part of the social security system, which is why the benefits of persons with disabilities that are now being paid as health insurance are also part of the social security system. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Time! Dr. László Kács: Mr. President, will you tell me as long as you want? The president's ringing the bell. Nándor Gúr: Time is up!]] They are also a guarantee to everyone. So, I think that in recent years we have tried and succeeded in humanely transforming this system, and out of 34 billion forints, more than 30 thousand of them have changed their jobs, guaranteeing their own jobs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-32	Thank you very much. Fellow Members! If you recall, there was also in the case of the speech before the agenda, who exceeded the time frame of your faction. [[Dr. László Varga: That's not out of the question.]] That is, of course, why I do not commend the Secretary of State, but I would like to say this. He's the one who's been best at this. However, I am now going to ask Mr József Tobias if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Yes!]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Speaking of your words, if there's too much debate, it's okay in itself, it'd be good if there was a debate, but it'd take someone to answer the question. [[Nándor Gúr: The minimum!]] 2. It should be taught, Mr Secretary of State, to leave at least four minutes of the time period for discrediting the MSZP to try to explain its performance to its own government. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] 3. Ladies and gentlemen, What you've done in the field of disability, you can't say the sentence of social sensitivity on your lips, you can't say it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is that a sentence?]] Not today, not in the next 365 days. Because here, Mr. Secretary, you tell us what it was ten years ago, but people are living today, and they want tomorrow for you, which you took. And the only question, Mr. Secretary, is that you refuse to answer, but I know exactly why you didn't, is where you put that money. So I don't care about anything else! If there was money for it before 2010, why today, in addition to successful economic growth, there is no money for those who... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mr. President, at least two seconds. [[Defiance.]] Thank you. At least those who have been in the system so far will get the money they need to make a decent living. I don't accept the answer. [[Dr. László Varga: That's right!]] Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-02-34	Thank you very much. I didn't shut down the mike, I let it flow any longer. [[Dr. László Varga: Thank you for the gesture!]] As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Sebestyén Vácsó, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Instead of words, do pensioners need action, or are they not afraid that older care will collapse? It's an address. Congressman Sebestyén has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First of all, allow me to warmly welcome the members of Jobbik's retirement class who are seated in the gallery on the occasion of the day of the elderly. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]] Dear Secretary of State, Hundreds of thousands of young people have fled abroad because of the governments of previous cycles, which you have mentioned so much in the past eight years and the unblessed actions of the past seven years. One of the consequences of this is the increasing number of elderly people in need of some form of care in the family. Unfortunately, this is something that is not so simple in Hungary today. In recent years, the conditions for entry have also changed very strongly, not to mention long waiting lists due to lack of space. It can be concluded that the system has not adapted to the changed needs of the circumstances. Another question is whether it would be possible to expand the number of seats in the current state of shortage. In the supply system, there are constantly unfulfilled statuses, which are often putting the service itself in jeopardy. Of course, we can't be surprised at that, because today the worst-wanting sector in Hungary is the social sphere, especially considering that it is the sector of elderly care, which is similar to health care, where workers are also underpaid, but still earn 20-25 percent more than their employees in the assisting profession. Not to mention, both mentally and physically, we're talking about a very demanding job, a job. Under these circumstances, it is almost envelopable, almost clear to leave the track. I no longer address the issues related to the quality of care. Due to the above circumstances and to the legal background, institutions, even if needed, and in order to reduce the overload of workers and to ensure the safe and complete care of those who are well cared for, as in the basic care sector, it would also be necessary to develop higher-needed dementia departments in professional care. But this was just one of the many examples that I could mention, either with regard to the quality of care or the conditions of care, for which I have to say here that it is not the workers in it who are responsible, but those who provide it or those who maintain these institutions. Dear Secretary of State, If possible, from the usual panel responses, please ignore the question of minimum wage increases, tax reductions, allowances: will you finally introduce the social career model? Are they adapted to the changed circumstances, i.e. are they making the conditions of entry easier for elderly care? Or are they willing to expand the number of seats so that endless long waiting lists can be eliminated and the elderly in need have the opportunity to enter these institutions? I look forward to your substantive answers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his interpellation question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Your words would be more credible, honourable Member, if your name were not on the list of better Members who, when they could have voted, for example, did not do so for the benefit of older people at 40, for example. If old people are so important to you now, why weren't they important? [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Because it was a salad law, that's why!]] when it was possible to vote for a woman to 40, honourable Member? [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It was a salad law, and you know it!]] Isn't that 200,000 old ladies important to you? You didn't honor them with your vote, but party discipline was important for you not to give your support? When it came to honoring elderly people [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Why didn't you speak up against the party president? [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Salad Law! Tamás Sneider: Anything specific?]] Why didn't you write a comment on Facebook saying that Mr. President of the Party, perhaps you shouldn't use such words against the elderly? Then, honourable Member, you weren't so brave, you didn't speak in such a way to protect the elderly. [[A statement from Jobbik, of course he did.]] However, Fidesz-KDNP sought to strengthen the system of social institutions, which, in conjunction with the health and educational institutions, was underfunded during the municipal reserve, after which the debts of the municipalities had to be redeemed from HUF 1200 billion, as it was the amount that socialist-liberal governments had not paid in previous years, but transferred this burden to the municipalities. The municipalities had no money, so they took out loans and issued bonds. We were able to guarantee these operating conditions to the social institutions after 2010. We tried to provide the elderly with as wide a range of care as possible, catering, home assistance, regular home assistance, day care for the elderly, day care for people with dementia, nursing home for the elderly, nursing home for the elderly. In many cases, in a state institution, in other cases in cooperation with church or civil society organisations, with state money, but in the institutions they reserve. If we look only at home assistance, the group of home care workers, honourable Member, it shows that in seven years this government has increased the number of home care recipients by 40%. And obviously the answer could come to this: all right, there were 75,000 housewives in 2010, and by the end of 2016 it rose to 107 294, but what is the quality of care? [[14.30]] After all, in previous years, this was solved by simply increasing these numbers, providing more people to the same number. However, while we have increased the number of domestic care workers by not 40 percent, as we have doubled them, since they have increased from 5764 to 13 399; so 40 percent more elderly people are provided by twice as many social contributors, taking care of them. This is how we thought of giving extra support, extra security to the elderly, who, for example, take this form. But those who were accommodated in some elderly home were able to renew 3,300 of these seats in recent years, and we spent 9 billion forints to make it better for pensioners and elderly people. It is also important that the government has allocated HUF 1.7 billion to a completely new form of care and to the establishment of specialised care centres, which will build the institutional system that provides a higher level of care for the elderly. You told me not to talk about pay, but let me talk about pay. On January 1, 2014, we introduced the sectoral wage supplement, which meant a surplus of nearly HUF 9,000 per month to 90,000 people, some of whom had an average of HUF 17 200, but almost HUF 9,000. From July 2015 we introduced a salary supplement that meant an average gross monthly HUF 16,000 for 66,000 social workers, and if I add the .17 increases, which represent HUF 35 thousand for 14 thousand employees, then there is a 62 percent increase in wages between 13-18. That's what we'd like to do. So far, we have spent HUF 103 billion on this, but we would like to appreciate the work of the workers and prepare for more. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-39	Of course, I can't accept the Secretary of State's answer because it included slides on the one hand [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was the slide?]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was the slide?]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was the slide?]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was the slide?]] I didn't even get the answer to one or two specific questions (Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was the slide?) , which was related, for example, to the social career model. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was the slide?) In spite of these responses, we have to see that the sector that is the worst looking sector is the sector of social care earners. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was the slide?) Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, I have also listened with respect to what you have said. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You said I slipped it! What did I slide?]] I'm asking you to listen to what I said. So we are talking about the worst earners, and we are talking about the path from which the greatest emigration is taking place, and we are talking about the course, especially in the area of elderly care, where migration is the largest, whether abroad or in the health sector. And the only reason we couldn't accept it was because of the unfair law that was passed to Parliament. A discriminative law has been passed before Parliament, which confronts women. Men should have the same amount of 40 plus. That's why we couldn't accept this law. And the other is that I don't have text understanding problems, I'm having trouble understanding texts, and I'm not getting information from the Vajna-Habony works, so I didn't apologize for that. I'm asking you to read that Facebook entry more carefully, and you might not have such material errors. I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. That's why I'm asking the Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 29 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office: When do they get off the dead horse? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, János Süli, who is responsible for planning, building and installing two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you so much for coming to us to answer that. You may recall that Prime Minister came earlier with such Indian jokes or similes when he was not yet with Szeklers, and he always mentioned this dead horse, and although we could talk about a lot of important things here in Parliament today, Hungary's energy vision remains a very important issue. Obviously, the question is when Fidesz-KDNP will get off this dead horse on which it sits, because it is now apparent that this dead horse smells pretty much, because energy policy is not only said by us and not only by the greens, but also by many professionals referred to earlier. He's practically one of the supporters now. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] More and more, it seems that only those who are actually being paid will support it. So whoever gets a position in the ministry, gets a position as a government commissioner, is now on his side, but a lot of people who can be regarded as professionals are not. I would like to know what the Minister believes, for example, that according to Imre Martha, former CEO of the MVM, who owns the nuclear power plant, the two new blocks will be at least 30 percent more expensive than planned, and the electricity generated in Paks II will cost at least 50 percent more than the market prices at that time by the time it is finished. In other words, Imre Martha stated that it was an economically unjustified investment that was never recovered. I'm sure you know Mr. Secretary Martha personally, and I'd like to know how you feel about this. I am also interested in the fact that Ász János, lecturer of the Department of Energy Machines and Systems of the Budapest University of Technology and Economics, who is also, you can say, specialized in teaching nuclear power generation, said in several interviews that, without competitive competition, the government ordered a type of reactor for Paks whose basic reconstruction is outdated, and its ordered and renovated experimental version shows serious shortcomings. I believe that Minister also knows that the two reference power plants so far have had type errors, irregularities, weaknesses in the Russian security and technical culture. The last - although it may no longer be relevant to you - Zoltán Illés, their former politician and secretary of state spoke, who said that leaving the entire Paks development would be justified. I don't think he's a left-wing politician either. Obviously, the question is that this investment, which is becoming more and more apparent, brings only positive results to Hungarian fidesz builder friends, families related to the Prime Minister, Russian oligarchs and Russian businessmen, and more and more Hungarian professionals say that it will not be good: when will it be justified to leave this? So my question is, with respect, when do they get off this dead horse, when do they finally realize that Hungary's long-term interest in energy is clearly that it is the 21st. Let us find solutions to these challenges in the century and not develop an ageless, bad and expensive technology. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
u2017-10-02-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Minister János Süli for the answer. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-43	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, At my hearing, I also said that these questions cannot be discussed in such short interviews and on issues, since this issue requires more justification. However, I would like to briefly summarise the questions that you have touched here. So the project, thank you very much, is fine. When I took the lead, I didn't think I'd ride a dead horse, not a habit. I don't think anyone who has anything to do with livestock would take advantage of this opportunity to ride a dead horse. Brussels has clearly analysed the situation in Paks on six issues and has given a clear answer on all six issues that the investment is profitable, safe and clearly stated on the question of competition that it was not contrary to competition law. At my hearing, I also made it clear that Hungary's energy situation is at present such that more than 30 percent of the system can operate with imports. In winter, when the Mátra lignite froze, the system went with 54 percent import. So this is life-threatening for the country; it is also unacceptable for security of supply, energy independence and the competitiveness of industry if we can operate or operate under these conditions. If we build one of these blocks, the 5 will be completed, we won't cover the amount of imports we're using today. It is also mentioned in the Mavir announcements that there will be a 5 thousand megawatt shortage in Hungary by 30. So today we should not be discussing whether we are building the two Paks blocks, but what we are going to build later. We have clearly said that the nuclear power plant is not against renewables, but renewables can be developed in an organic unit, together with nuclear energy, or the lignite property that exists in Hungary should not be left unused. So we are proposing a three-legged position, and in this, as I said, we are happy to have any debate. What kind of experts you can summon, I know these gentlemen, some of whom I can even personally refer to as my good friend. The industry has always been characterized when we built the four blocks, even though there are other interests in this country. [[14.40]] There are other interests in energy too. Some of these experts have never been to Paks, but have never been to a power plant. So I think that, while respecting your opinion, you should listen to it - not to me, I only worked at the power plant for 31 years, but I know a little bit about the technology, the conditions, so I think we should listen to us. Two more words: we buy a turnkey power plant, a fixed price, Fukushima-resistant block, a block with the most modern reference, and we said that we chose such a block because we were buying a printed water power plant. This technology exists, Pakson works the same way, we will only take an improved version of it in performance, which is not 440, and today these blocks operate with 500 megawatts, but 1200 megawatts. It is also interesting that there is always a part of the Members of Parliament running towards Brussels, and if Brussels says that this is a good thing, then those who are always waiting for good decisions and effects from it will not be accepted. So it seems to us [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We think it's a little unethical. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-44	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Minister's answer.
u2017-10-02-45	I don't accept it, but thank you very much. We've been so used to Parliament not being answered by lawyers, and they can give us a professional response instead of splashing. [[Uproar, noise, and interrogation from the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] So thank you very much for your professional response. First of all, we're not gonna make much use of the turnkey reactor if that doesn't work. You said, Minister, you can't discuss it in such short interviews. I agree. That is why we asked for a referendum to give us time to discuss it. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] That's what kept you out of the loop. He said he didn't think he'd get on a dead horse when he took the ministership. Unfortunately, that's what happened. Brussels said that it rejected the concerns. Yeah, but based on your numbers, not correct professional numbers. What I'd expect you to say is, "Mártha Imre is wrong, don't you know? Say that if that's what you think. Or is John Autumn not good at teaching or touching? Because that's what you'd have to say if you were to say that these professionals, who are recognized internationally, are wrong. And obviously he didn't answer that either. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To name a single expert, a name who stands by the project and doesn't pay for it. Because they don't have that anymore, because they give money to everyone they want to side with. I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Gábor Fodor applauds.]]
u2017-10-02-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Minister's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 108 votes, 7 votes against and 14 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, Is the Government planning to develop a comprehensive action plan to address the emergencies caused by the re-absorbed karst sources in Tata and Central Transdanubia? It's an address. Congressman János Bencsik has the floor.
u2017-10-02-47	Dear Secretary of State, In this year's Tatai Basin settlements remember the beginnings of coal mining 120 years ago, as well as the cultural, economic and social shaping role of the long-standing profession. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that forced industrialisation also had negative effects. A significant part of the carbon stock to be produced was placed below the karst water level, so it was necessary to sink the water level to the surface. Tata's resources have dried up as a result of forced extraction. The spring horn was clogged, and for centuries the land used as a wet meadow and a reaper was declared a construction site and built up. As the mining activity ceased, the recharge of the underground karst reservoirs began. The original resting water level has now been restored, and the sources of Tata have been revived one by one. At present, 8 000 Tatas live in the areas that have been built, and 8 000 Tatas face daily problems caused by ever-increasing sources of emergency. There is also a residential building in the city where 500 liters of water flow was revived every minute in its basement. As a result of the collapse of sources, the public works become useless, as well as the unsolved conduct of 30,000 cubic meters of karst water per day, the residents concerned are faced. The municipality of Tata started exploring the sources of danger years ago on its own. The problem set is well beyond the local community's load-bearing capacity, so a year and a half ago we asked the Ministry of the Interior to assist us. An operational task force was set up for our initiative, and a few weeks ago an individual government decision was taken to fund the most burning interventions from the central budget. Dear Secretary of State, In the meantime, the four-track public road crossing the city was also interrupted, as there is an active source barrier under the road. The first intervention package has not named the part of the route concerned, so I am asking with the inhabitants of the city whether there is any hope that the untenable state of travel will be lifted within a reasonable time. I am also asking whether the government is planning to develop a comprehensive action plan to address the emergencies caused by Central-Transdanubian resuscitation sources. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the interpellation question raised by Mr Tibor Pogácsás will be given by Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The questions raised in the interpellation by the Member show very well how human activity, human intervention, can have short-term and long-term consequences for nature, and how easily one forgets that it intervened in nature and then changed the surface, surface watercourses, where appropriate. Indeed, deep-growing mining in the Transdanubian Middle Mountains has resulted in huge amounts of karst water being highlighted, and as a result of this excavation, sources and streams of water have disappeared from the surface. These sources, streams of water, have disappeared for years, decades, and then these areas have been installed. Obviously, a serious environmental issue is the extraction of water itself, and a serious issue is also how areas that were naturally in the way of watercourses have been installed, or have been in the way of springs. These questions can now be scientifically examined, but obviously the consequences must be assessed by us, the consequences must be understood by us, and the best solution must be sought and found in the situation that has arisen. With the return of karst water, watercourses and springs appeared in built-in areas. For this reason, the National Water Directorate examines the forms of karst water in a KEOP programme, examines the expected appearance of this karst water in the coming period, and examines the extent to which and how the built-in areas are threatened, the dangers to which the inhabitants should be warned, and what to prepare for, both for the protection of life and for the protection of property. According to the information collected, the area and area of the city of Tata are in the most critical situation. Several sources have recreated here, as a result of which the current Tata water system, drainage system, surface drainage system are not suitable for draining this water from the rebooted water sources. The KEOP tender source from which the problem map and the design of the solutions are prepared will consume some HUF 400 million. However, this draft alone does not allow for short-term interventions. [[14.50]] In order to solve the short-term daily problems that arise, a government decision has been taken to provide some HUF 327 million to enable Tata to perform the most necessary interventions. Further measures will obviously be taken after the interventions so as not to jeopardise the built-in areas of karst water. In particular, I can also inform the Member that, on the one hand, a long-term solution is proposed to resolve the karst water situation and, on the other hand, we have a source for solving the current problems, and, on the third, the Road has begun to plan the repair of the main road and the discharge of the horn. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr János Bencsik if he will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-51	Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, it is very important that this issue, which affects not only Tata but also the entire Central Transdanubia, is properly positioned in the national water strategy, which gives the government the opportunity to carry out the necessary research and survey tasks. It is important that the HUF 328 million, which is now available as immediate support to the municipality of Tata, is also important that the four-track route concerned, the plan for the restoration of the May 1st route, is being prepared. Our respectable request from the Tatans is that, following the completion and approval of the plans, the amount necessary for the construction of the Hungarian Public Road will be insured in the next year's state budget. It's actually going to be comforting for the town of Tata. I accept your response in the light of cooperation and government decisions taken so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Sins of the last eight years: There is money for millions of pensions, but there is no money for raising the minimum pension? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-53	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The minimum amount of the old-age pension is 28 500 HUF, this amount has been unchanged since 2008. That means it's always the one thing you can't determine for someone, Mr. Secretary of State, for the ninth year. Not to mention how much other social benefits are allocated to this, which, however, need to be increased. I would like to speak specifically about the low amount of pensions. In spite of the rise in the value of pensions already established each year, there are still many people who live on barely a few thousand forints. According to official statistics, there are over 300,000 people receiving various benefits, whose pension or pension benefits - for example, disability benefits - are less than HUF 50,000, while while the minimum living rate calculated by experts for pensioners is HUF 79 757 per month. If you look at this amount, more than 1 million pensions are paid in Hungary in January 2017 below this level. More than 1 million pensioners get less than 79 thousand forints. Meanwhile, with the abolition of the contribution ceiling in 2013, more and more people will receive several hundred thousand forints and several million forints of retirement. The more ceiling-free years, the more weight they will have on the new pension calculation. Those who work in well-paying jobs will receive an extra high pension after their income. Just as they benefit from a single-key tax, they also get the opportunity in the pension system. As a result, there will be more and more high and low pensions, and this could already undermine the delicate balance of the pension system, Mr Secretary of State. Mr. Secretary. The creation of age security is in the common interest of society. For this reason, we cannot stand by and watch the government do nothing to increase the benefits of the lowest pensioners. For all these reasons, I ask you, Mr Secretary - and I would very much like the four minutes not to be about the past sixteen years, because the last eight years have been for you, and would not give you 20 seconds to answer the questions - why hasn't the pension limit been raised by one forint in the last eight years? Where's the money for this? Why are some allowed to have a million - year - old pension when others receive just a few tens of thousands of forints? Why don't you care that nearly a million pensioners have a pension below average? And I would like to ask you once again, as did József Tobias: where is the money saved on the 200,000 disability pensioners, Mr. Secretary of State? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-10-02-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári answers the interpellation question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In recent years, everyone's pension has increased, as opposed to the last period of socialist governance, when people's pensions decreased, a month's benefits were taken away, more than 8 percent of the benefits were taken from each Hungarian pensioner. Here in Parliament, they stood up, one by one, from Gyurcsány to Botka, and everyone voted in favour of the socialist proposal at that time and reduced pensioners' pensions. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has increased everyone's pension, both small and large, by 23.1 percent, which represents a 9.5 percent increase in purchasing value as compared to the pension basket. For pensioners in the store, the pension they receive from month to month is now worth almost 10 percent more than the pension they received in 2010. If you look at the pension fund: your minister acknowledged in 2010 that there was a deficit of HUF 200 billion in the pension fund. More real estimates, however, have doubled this to HUF 400 billion. So the pension fund stood by taking a month's pension from the pensioners' pocket, and the cash register lacked HUF 400 billion. That's what the Fidesz-KDNP needed to fix, and that's what we fixed. Gordon Bajnai justified the removal of the 13th month pension, so that only by this means we could save the 12th month pension, so the payment of the ordinary 12th month pension would have been a problem for the socialists. Let's add that, not only on the revenue side, but also on the expenditure side, pensioners would have been very bad for the Socialist Party, since they wanted to introduce a visitation fee and hospital daily allowance - and even introduced - if they hadn't abolished the social referendum launched by Fidesz-KDNP. In that case, if a patient is in the hospital, he's been in there for ten days, but he should be in there for five more days, and his doctor tells him to stay in there for five more days, but he says I don't have a five-day hospital allowance, so what would you suggest? What would have happened in that case? He's just taken a month's pension, and he's gonna have to pay another five-day allowance, which you introduced. I think it was a real heartlessness of the socialist government, especially with regard to low-income pensioners. However, in recent years, we have reduced the luxury pensions that former MSZMP, worker or other prominent party functionaries have received. In their case, if they received a medal with which there was a pension increase, well, we have taken away their pension surplus, but in addition, we have provided the surplus to pensioners year after year. If we look at the ratio of how much of the pensioners received a percentage of their salary in a year of socialist government, then we see 54 percent, while now we see nearly 70 percent. Then only half of his salary was paid as a pension, and now he's getting more than two thirds. As a result, retirement years are now more secure than before. And pensioners can expect something that has not been done, because this spring, in addition to your vote against, the National Assembly passed a law containing HUF 32 billion in next year's budget on the pension premium line. This line was not yet included in Hungary's budget. However, if the performance of the economy is as planned, what we have worked for, pensioners will have the opportunity to receive a pension premium, as they have already received a special one-time allowance at the end of last year. This is how we try to improve the situation of pensioners with smaller and higher incomes. It is a good example of the seriousness of your claims that yesterday László Botka announced that he wanted to introduce a 13th month pension and resigned today. That's what your promise was, that's what the promises of the Hungarian Socialist Party are worth. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2017-10-02-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the honourable Member whether she accepts the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-10-02-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You've forgotten something very important. He said a lot of things about what the socialists did, what Fidesz did, but he forgot to tell you that your government stole 3000 billion forints of pension savings. No one in this country has stolen 300,000 billion forints but themselves. Nobody! And that's just one item, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It's the law.]] And I still didn't get the answer to what happened to the 1 million pensioners whose pension is less than HUF 79 thousand. Secretary of State, what are we talking about? And how can more and more people in Hungary who have hundreds of thousands of forints' pensions have a million-dollar pension? Perhaps they're preparing to retire from the benches of Fidesz soon, because the Young Democrats Alliance is slowly a retirement party, and they're preparing for this period, Mr. Secretary of State? I don't think that's what we're looking for. Again, you didn't give me an answer, and I can't accept it, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 23 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Ander, a representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: instead of words, pensioners need action, or why do they not also ensure that men can retire after 40 years of employment, not from work to the cemetery? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, How Fidesz and the government feel about respect for the years, appreciation for the idea of the elderly, in practice, we could get a devastating picture about it a year ago, on the debate day initiated on Jobbik's proposal, where after 40 years of employment we argued in favour of retirement for men as well. It was clear that tired, working Hungarian men, who, according to OECD surveys, work a third more hours a year than their fellow Germans, are only eviscerated workers, and yoke-lifters worked to the death for current owners of power, who, like other groups of society, are simply left on the side of the road or kicked off the Taigetos if they are no longer able to skin them. What am I talking about? In Hungary, men's life expectancy is six years behind the EU average, only 72 years. The rate of health degradation is shockingly poor, as the percentage of people over 60 is almost 50 percent of those with disabilities. And a third of men don't live through retirement. Hungarian men also want healthy, happy retirement years with their families and grandchildren, because it is important to be able to relax and enjoy retirement years after a worked life. It is incomprehensible why the government for a friend of young people rejects the idea supported by a three-quarters majority of society. As opposed to you, Jobbik continues to insist that men, like women, retire after 40 years of employment. The amount of pension contributions converted into social contribution tax has increased, although it is true that it should not, for example, be stolen or stolen under Gypsy integration and other titles, so it would be possible to finance a pension programme for HUF 160 billion per year for full upswing. It would not disrupt the budget, and the majority of this amount would be used on the Hungarian market, not as a helicopter and a beach house. Do not settle the question by saying that a large number of Hungarians are still working after retirement, so there is no reason to ask for a fair retirement after 40 years, because the shame behind this is that the average pension is shamefully low. In our country, pensions are spent only 9 percent against 13 percent of the EU average as a percentage of GDP. No wonder 1 million of our countrymen receive less than 79 thousand forints a month. Most workers cannot put me aside, but many do not hope that they will live to the retirement age. Of course, all of this could only be changed by increasing the national economy's cake and supporting our wage Union initiative. In view of all this, I look forward to the honour of Mr Secretary of State's reply to the question of why men are not also guaranteed to retire after 40 years of employment, not from work to the cemetery. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, will be on the question of interpellation raised by the Member. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It's the title of your speech that you've done instead of words. If we consider that Gábor Vona's words for pensioners were followed in Hungary, what would the elderly expect in Hungary? A person who mocks a man who can't lift his basket and pull it on wheels, if someone says that some of the pensioners have sewage running out of their mouth, or hate in their eyes, what would he do? What would Gábor Vona do against pensioners who he writes about on his own Facebook page and whose sentences all his fellow Members here in Parliament confirm and think the same thing about pensioners or this writing that Gábor Vona did and then confirmed? So if these words, if these right-wing hateful words were followed by equally disrespectful and hateful acts, there would be no advantage for any Hungarian pensioner, that is for sure. What was particularly interesting was what you said, and it is good that Congressman Sneider came back, because he also said in his own speech, even here, in the speeches before the agenda. You said that the money spent on Roma integration was wasted, and Congressman Sneider said literally that those who have children that are not useful should not be entitled to a pension. It would be nice to know exactly what Congressmen mean by that. Who are the unusable children that you wouldn't give your parents a pension for? [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: those who sit in prison.]] What is Jobbik's proposal to take away the possibility of a pension or a pension increase from some people? Because in recent years, Fidesz-KDNP has tried to raise pensions everywhere, the value of pensions has increased by 23 percent and the value of the buyer has increased by 9.5 percent, and pensions will continue to increase in the next year, with 3 percent growth expected. What we see is that Jobbik can do anything for money and power. You will also oppose your previous vote, because there you, ladies and gentlemen of the right-wing Member, have not supported the pension allowance for women, and now you are presenting proposals to eliminate the beneficiary situation of women, not admitting the work that they are doing to raise children, and what they would use to educate their grandchildren when they receive this benefit. This opportunity has been used by 204 thousand ladies, not by Jobbik, but by their own decision and by the opportunities provided by Fidesz-KDNP. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) But we have seen that just as the elderly cannot count on Jobbik here, in the parliamentary elections, the country cannot count on either, because although they may sometimes say nice words when they are not bashing on the elderly, as they have broken their basic law-modifying promise in the quota matter, they have also broken their promises to pensioners so far and have not supported the government's proposals that we have introduced here and that the value of pensions has increased. However, the policy of tax reductions was also an important decision, since all Hungarian pensioners are also beneficiaries of tax reductions. The fact that the VAT on pig meat, poultry meat, eggs and fresh milk has been reduced to a minimum, for many elderly couples, for many elderly people who are single, means tens of thousands of forints a year that they can save. These changes were not supported by Jobbik's representatives. But perhaps this is also due to the fact that, while the average EU average is the relative income ratio of older people, the elderly who live in relative income poverty are 14.1 per cent, and in Hungary, Eurostat figures say only 4.6 per cent. In Hungary, therefore, there is much less risk of poverty in old age and retirement than in other countries of the European Union. We will continue to work for pension increases, for economic growth, which will bring a pension premium to Hungarian pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is for the Member to say whether he accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go. [[15.10]]
u2017-10-02-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I can't accept this incredible bullshit. The Secretary of State continued here the brainwashing lozenges of the Habonyi hate propaganda, and you were, by the way, full of bullshit, saying nothing to the working Hungarian men of whom my question was about. He's been talking about Roma integration, which, by the way, we consider to be important, more important than you, who are letting him steal these money, say, the man sitting behind you. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] That's one of them. [[Crying, murmuring, moving.]] The other: we are not looking at the Hungarian reality from under some kind of pink glass dome, like you, who in a million-dollar Silka suit are pampering on the terraces of luxury hotels in Provence and Rome. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You represent Lajos Simicska!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You represent Lajos Simicska!]] We represent those Hungarian workers who have spent decades working in a pulsating job (Dr. Bence Rétvári: You represent Lajos Simicska!) Working so hard that you can't even dream of or come up in your nightmares, let's say, the kind of work that these Hungarian men do, who didn't have any positive messages.
u2017-10-02-64	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-10-02-65	Secretary of State, I do not accept your outrageous answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-66	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 21 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Gergely Gaal, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The Interest Free Student Loan" to support families. My fellow Members, would you please allow us to continue our work? Congressman, have a seat. Congressman Gaal Gergely has the floor. [[It's ringing.]]
u2017-10-02-67	Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, The Government of Hungary has demonstrated in recent years that as soon as it has the opportunity to do so, it will support the livelihood of families, improve opportunities for young people and start-ups, and reduce the burden on older people. The performance of the Hungarian economy today, thanks to the government's policy, can provide a predictable, secure background for the budget, thus providing long-term security for all of us. Contrary to left-wing governments, Fidesz-KDNP has always put the situation of families at the heart of its work, accordingly, family support has doubled since 2010: HUF 960 billion in 2018 is already close to HUF 2000 billion. One of the important elements of this system is the student credit system, which was established in 2001 and has been operating reliably ever since. The aim of the first Orbán government was to create opportunities for all young people to participate in higher education, regardless of his or her financial capacity. Dear Secretary of State, The preferential loan facility will be even more family-friendly with the government's further decisions, if I may say so, since as of 1 January next year, customers will be suspended from paying the student loan debt at the birth of the first child, half of the debt will be released in the case of the second child and the entire student loan debt will be released for the third child. It is also a great pleasure for us that the Student Loan 2 will be free of interest from October, and the maximum amount that can be taken on Student Loan 1 will be increased to HUF 70,000 per month next year. This will continue to further develop the family support system, which is very important for the Christian Democratic People's Party, where, in addition to economic growth and job creation, we will do everything we can to improve our demographic indicators. In addition, with these measures, we are sending out a message to young people that we want to participate in their efforts, which is also the key to the country's future success. That is why I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how he judges the results of the student loan system. What experiences have we had in the past 16 years? How do the conditions of Student Loan 1 and Student Loan 2 change, and how can we help students and families? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you mentioned, in 2001, the first Orbán government created the student loan system, which is no better demonstrated by its success than by the fact that it was used by 379 thousand students until 2017 - a very, very high number, showing how much demand there is on the part of young people for this discount, this opportunity - and we have paid a total loan of HUF 315 billion. The student credit system has helped young people from difficult circumstances to get into higher education, to get a degree, and to work higher with a degree, and therefore to have higher incomes. However, after 2002, during the time of the left-wing governments at that time, like many others, student loans have had a worsening construction: the credit ceiling they reached, or the highest loan rate they had reached, was nearly 12 percent interest rate, and the socialist government raised the student loan's 1st interest rate to 12 percent interest rate, which is an extremely high amount, and would have owed students much more debt than the initial arrangement. The Fidesz-KDNP administration down to this 12-percent interest rate level of 2.3 per cent. An important change, as you have pointed out, is that in the case of Student Loan 1 - so this is the free-use student loan that young people can use for anything during their studies - we increase the monthly amount from HUF 50,000 to HUF 70,000, and we increase the eligible amount by 40 percent in Hungarian, as this is the amount that young people now have to pay for their livelihood. In the event that a person carries out a semester or two abroad in the framework of the Erasmus programme or other framework, he can receive double of this, i.e. up to 140 thousand forints per month, 1.4 million forints in the framework of Student Loan 1. Student Loan 2 was created 11 years after Student Loan 1 in 2012, the Student Loan 1 under the first Orbán government, the Student Loan 2 under the second Orbán government. This means that, at a symbolic interest rate level of 2 per cent, the cost of the reimbursement was loaned by the State, directly referred to the university and college, and thus the student did not have to deal with any expenses, just as he obtained his education, then he had to pay the repayments in order. This is a student loan that the government makes free of interest. This means that for an average student the maturity will be reduced by three years, three years less time to pay back the costs of an average course, and the extension is that Student Loan 2 can now be used to pay the fee for foreign language courses. It is also a discount that the age limit of the application will rise from 40 to 45 years, and it is a very important change that employers can take over the payments, since they can repay the student loan as a tax-free benefit of HUF 27 600 as a kind of cafeteria element. It is also possible for a person to be transferred to an employer who does not have to make special payments to repay student loans, but his employer does so; we encourage them, since it is preferable for the employer to have a higher education employee. As you have mentioned, it is a separate family-friendly measure that after the first child, to be more precise: from the third month after his conception, the student loan will be suspended for a period of three years, and the interest will be taken over, half of the second child and half of the third child will be cancelled. We expect that in the next five years we will leave 3.3 billion forints in the pockets of young people, students, students and thus in the pockets of Hungarian families and Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-71	Mr. Secretary. Your response also highlights that this is a case that once again proves that good ideas can survive in the long term, adapted to economic development and the needs of the age, and can help the lives of Hungarian families and young people who want to learn. I am proud to be a member of a political community that helps students' lives and does not take their money, so I thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: "Does the government back out of GMO-free? It's an address. It concerns Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2017-10-02-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad I got a professional again, and I don't have to listen to the parrot commando, so I have a question. You must have seen in my interpellation, I was very pleased that the pro-government majority of the Committee on Sustainable Development did not support the proposal for a parliamentary resolution which would have fully well-intentionedly tried to strengthen Hungary's government's efforts to implement Hungary's GMO-free approach, but we are saddened to see that the government is not taking advantage of the opportunities in this regard. [[15.20]] The question arises, for example, in relation to free trade agreements, which pose a serious threat to our country's GMO-free status, why Fidesz is not taking action and why Fidesz representatives are supporting this. Belgium has appealed to the European Court of Justice to reduce at some level the risks of this kind of free trade agreement. Why didn't the Hungarian government do this? Why haven't there been any steps in this direction? It is equally of concern that the GMO lobby has literally spent billions of dollars for years on research that strengthens their own preconception of how good it is for society and the world, while the Hungarian government has abolished virtually all funding that would provide the most basic research in order to disprove these one-sided news. In Hungary, amazing resources have gone from R &amp; D sources in a completely different direction, and while the institutional system lacks capacity, there is no longer a research background to support this. At the same time, it is also suggested that the government would have the opportunity to initiate in the European Union such people as we do elsewhere, since seed is a strategic area in Hungary, one of the world's recognised seed producers, and we cannot talk about GMO-freeness in Hungary as long as seeds are one of the simple goods and can appear in Hungary as a result of the free movement of goods. As long as Schengen is so, there will be GMO seed in Hungary, I think we both know that. Obviously, it would be very important for the government to treat domestic seed varieties as part of its national heritage and to ensure that only certified GMO-free seed materials can be placed on the market in Hungary. Compared to this, Fajtavényi Nonprofit Kft. Its activities represent the interests of Syngenta, Monsanto and BASF in Hungary rather than the preservation of Hungarian breeds. This is why it is important to ensure that GMO-free labelling is ensured in the whole product line model. And at least as important, because, as we know, every year there are impurities in order to provide GM breed owners with a compensation fund to prevent possible pollution damage. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what arguments he can use to disprove the twenty professional points that we have submitted in the Parliamentary resolution proposal, with which arguments he can support that there is no need. What arguments can you use to deny that we cannot see from the government the efforts to ensure GMO exemption in Hungary? I respectfully expect your answer to that. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-10-02-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary István Nagy responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-10-02-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, The sky is blue, grass is green - Hungary carries out GMO-free agriculture. These facts are so clear that it is completely unnecessary to open any debate about them. It seems that you have failed to master the basic information on GMO-freeness during the last parliamentary term and, unfortunately, you are more confident about this subject. In relation to its proposals, we have explained on many occasions the most important elements of our country's GMO-free policy, such as the EU regulation on genetically modified food and feed and the labelling rules it lays down, our measures on the genetic purity of seeds, our strategy for the implementation of GMO-free feeding systems. Our efforts have been made in the field of cultivation. As regards feed and food ingredients, compliance with the strict marking rules is monitored in accordance with the directly applicable EU rules. Several points of the proposal for a decision referred to by you are covered by the parliamentary decision on GMOs adopted in 2006 by a five-party consensus. The strategy set out therein is an integral part of the government programme and is closely linked to the relevant provisions of the Fundamental Law. This means maintaining the GMO-free status of our country's agriculture, thinking about the future generation, the cleanliness and safety of the environment. As a result, we have seen and seen no reason at all for a new decision. Moreover, its proposal - and our problem here - included proposals for which EU-wide regulation is in place and which cannot be changed at Member State level. In the press and here, in Parliament, you keep saying that the Fidesz government has done nothing for our country's GMO-free activities, thus proving that neither the facts nor the lack of knowledge of the relevant legislation bother you. On the other hand, for example, we were the first to transpose the directive into our national legal order on the basis of which we can decide in a sovereign way: we do not want to grow GMOs in our territory - we were first. At ministerial level, we voluntarily regulated the GMO-free labelling of food and feed. We will soon also introduce a GMO-free trademark, which will provide increased safety for both the consumer and the manufacturer. Hungary has been at the forefront of all initiatives, and has even been the launcher of a number of initiatives that set out GMO-free as one of the fundamental principles of sustainable agricultural production in Europe. The current legislation provides for strict controls to verify the GMO-free use of seed for use in our country. I would point out that it has not been necessary to order the destruction of a plant stock for years because of the cultivation of a lot of seed already placed on the market but contaminated with GMOs. In fact, one of our outstanding seed export positions in international seed trade and in the European Union is our GMO exemption. Consumers demand, seek and enjoy a growing awareness of healthy GMO-free foods and agricultural products. Government measures over the past period promote this conscious consumer choice. In contrast to your claims, the government will therefore continue to do everything in its power to maintain, maintain our country's GMO-free status and move step by step to protect and expand in the future measures with market benefits for Hungary as well as measures to help ensure the health of Hungarian people and the safety of food. You know this at home, apart from you, I think everyone in this country, and the good news, my dear fellow Member - I tell you - is that the countries of Europe also value Hungary, they consider us to be leaders and flagmen in the fight against GMO. Thank you and I look forward to the adoption of my answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-02-76	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-10-02-77	No, I won't. Of course I won't take it. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] I greeted Mr. Secretary of State practically as a specialist, and he gave up his stupid FM propaganda, and it's absolutely shocking that he says so. Secretary of State, you are aware of Mr Fazekas' secret negotiations in the United States, their reminders brought down by the Hungarian Nation and discussed them with GMOs. You sell to the Monsanto, the state sells land to continue its expansion in Hungary. You're practically letting 500 to 600 thousand tons of GMO feed into the country every year. To date, the shelves of grocery stores contain foods that do not need to show such a background. So to conclude, the sky is blue, the grass is green - and the FM lies like a river. I don't accept the answer. Thank you.
u2017-10-02-78	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 14 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy with the title of higher employment, higher wages. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor.
u2017-10-02-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, To the greatest extent, the quality of life of families is determined by whether parents have jobs and, if they have jobs, how much wages are paid for them. Therefore, the most important economic indicators include measuring the level of unemployment and the data that determines how many people work in Hungary. Like many other negative indicators, the unemployment rate was at the lowest level, at 11 percent at the time of the change of government in 2010. Socialists like to set this rise, i.e. the rise in the unemployment rate, so that this is due to the economic crisis in 2008, but this is not the case, because earlier, during the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány era, it started to grow significantly and stood at 7.7 percent when the economic crisis itself reached Hungary. In the second quarter of 2002, the same unemployment rate was only 5.5 percent. Fidesz has promised a million new jobs in Hungary in ten years after the change of government. Ladies and gentlemen, you may recall that when this announcement was made by the Prime Minister, there was a loud laughter and a rise in opposition benches, because they did not take seriously the fact that in Hungary a million new jobs could indeed be created in ten years. [[15.30]] Well, seven years have passed since then, and we can inform Hungary's voters that we are doing well on a pro rata basis, because more than 700 thousand new jobs have been created in Hungary, i.e. the government has completed 700 000 out of one million jobs in seven years. [[Lajos Korózs: 700,000 public workers!]] I think that this performance speaks for itself, even if the socialists, like many things, dispute this. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] No problem, my fellow Members, you have already shown me how Hungary can be indebted, how Hungary can be destroyed, how it can be taken away from Hungarian workers and pensioners, so I am not surprised that there is nothing else they can do but laugh and enjoy on such an important issue. Well, let's get back to the facts. [[Lajos Korózs: The statistics are being forged! Noise. Intruder: That's right!]] [[Noise, the president's ringing.]] Mr President, I would like to say my interpellation, even if that is not the case for Louis Korózs. [[Lajos Korózs: I like him, talk!]]
u2017-10-02-80	Congressman Korós!
u2017-10-02-81	As with so much else, fortunately, the socialists have not been right about this either, because, as I said, we have been able to create 700 thousand new jobs in recent times. By June-August 2017, the average number of unemployed fell by more than 30,000 to 195 thousand compared to a year earlier, and the unemployment rate was close to 4 percent. Dear Secretary of State, So I think these numbers speak for themselves. This is an extremely important issue for Hungarian society, and it is also due to the performance of the Hungarian economy, and obviously the decisions of the government and Parliament that we have come to this point. I ask you what we can expect in terms of wage increases in the coming period. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The success of domestic employment, which you mentioned in your interpellation, is essentially due to the government's ability to address job creation as one of its most important tasks. After the change in government in 2010, we introduced government measures that both stimulated the demand and supply side of the labour market. This is basically the result of the employment turnaround, which now exceeds the EU average, while Hungary is the fourth country with the 4.2 percent unemployment rate in the European Union. There are 444 thousand people working, and there are less than 200,000 unemployed, as you mentioned. We need to remember 2010; Hungary was, in all its indicators, the driving force of the European Union in terms of employment with regard to the aforementioned indicators. However, economic policy measures over the past period have created conditions for growth, not only in the public sector but also in the competition sector: jobs in the competitive sector are complemented and supported by employment policy measures that focus on targeted support for the most disadvantaged sectors in the labour market. For example, the Job Protection Action Programme. In areas where the economy does not create a sufficient number of jobs, public employment has temporarily become more important in recent years, but nowhere has it become decisive. Thus, the number of employees in Hungary increased by more than 700 thousand, and about three quarters of it, more than 500 thousand people, can be attributed to the creation of jobs for market businesses. Meanwhile, this year the number of people working in public employment decreased by 40,000 compared to a year ago. This indicates that the domestic competition sector is increasingly playing a role in job creation. The success of Hungarian economic policy is well demonstrated by the fact that, in addition to the increase in employment, the purchasing power of wages is also increasing. The level of real earnings has increased by almost 24 percent by last year since the 2010 government change, with family tax incentives. In families with three or more children, real growth, I would like to say in addition to this number, exceeded 50 percent. If we compare this year with the previous year's indicator, we can still see a significant increase, as real wages in Hungary increased by 10.1 percent in the first seven months of 2017. This year's outstanding increase in wages in the national economy, including in the competition sector, can be assessed as the first result of the six-year agreement concluded with the social partners in November 2016. Everyone knows that the minimum wage increased by 15 percent and the guaranteed minimum wage by 25 percent as of 1 January 2017, while the tax burden on wages was reduced by 5 percentage points. And if this figure is projected by 2018, an additional 8 percent wage minimum and a 12 percent guaranteed wage minimum increase will also be expected with a 2- or 2.5 percent tax reduction. The government therefore sees, based on the development of the domestic economy, the continued dialogue with the social partners as a guarantee of an increase in wages and thus a catch-up in EU wages. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. And thank you very much for the detailed information, Mr Secretary of State, which has shown that the Government of Hungary takes seriously the promise that it made when it was founded in 2010 that, in line with its economic performance, its primary task will be to raise the level of wages and, in addition to creating new jobs and thereby increasing employment levels, to increase net incomes above average. I think that these figures, which Mr. Secretary of State said, speak for themselves, that wage purchasing power has increased by 24 per cent, and in families with three or more children, this is above 50 per cent, and that is a particularly prominent figure for the first seven months of this year, according to which real wage growth has been above 10 per cent this year. So thank you very much, and I expect further support from the government for the initiatives that the Fidesz and KDNP faction will take in this area. I accept the answer, of course. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Why is the government refusing to discuss the long-term interests of health care? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2017-10-02-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The following news of the world-class health system on the part of the government has come to light in recent years: rat pops into an operating room with healers; an emergency care unit does not provide bleeding women, saying that it does not belong to their supply area; an open heart surgery is being transported because there is no appropriate diagnostic tool available and I could list it further. I'm not going to mention the break-in ceiling of the new hospital surgery in Mako and the dead doves from it, not to mention the one who died in the hospital restroom, who is not noticed until a day or a day and a half later by those who are working there. The problem is great, because in recent times it has been clear that there is no reduction in the number of people who imagine their careers in health care abroad. The healers are overwhelmed, few, whether the doctors or the workers, and I note that they spend a great deal of their time with administration; the XXI. In the first century, paper-based administration. Territorial supply differences remain unchanged. Waiting and booking lists do not decrease, and according to the latest news, it is often necessary to wait 210 days for a specialist examination. Most college students want to go abroad, it's not a heart-warming fact. And the fact that about one third of healthcare expenditure comes from private pockets legally or less legally is shocking. It's amazing, especially in the light of the fact that our county's fidesz potentates are paraded at the opening of a private clinic, while they've been screaming the loudest in recent years that health is not a business. Dear Secretary of State, My question would be why they are fleeing meaningful debates and why they do not want to talk to the profession or other parties about health. [[15.40]] You have repeatedly stressed that we, too, believe that health is a long-term issue, a national matter. They should therefore take every opportunity to exchange ideas on how to develop a long-term programme. In recent years, organisations and parties have adopted a 9-point national minimum on health issues, many have discussed this, one has been missing: the government or Fidesz. Therefore, I can't help but think that you are running away from substantive debates. I don't know how much of the Secretary of State's five-point programme lives, if one-and-a-half does, I may say a lot, but it seems that they refuse to talk to either the profession, the parties or anyone else in any meaningful debate. My question concerns, Mr. Secretary, why. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-02-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You like to quote false news. No one was transported anywhere with an open heart, no rats fall down in the O.R., all emergency patients are treated, and they even provide a reorganized, much more efficient system in Budapest. Honourable Congressman, It will not be better for the Hungarian Socialist Party or for Hungary - the first is not so much desired, the other is so much better because you are reading false news here in Parliament. You are proposing a wider consultation. I tried to recall how extensive consultation was held by the Hungarian Socialist Party at the time of the introduction of the visit fee and hospital daily allowance. All I remember is that there was a very broad protest against this, and this was manifested in the form of a referendum, and this referendum struck the coalition at that time to the extent that they were forced into a minority and then failed badly in the elections. Visiting fees, tuition fees and hospital daily referendums have also contributed to this. So I don't remember these wide-ranging socialist consultations, but I do remember that the socialists, in opposition to the will of the people, thought their most important thing was to put safes in hospitals and even make people pay every day for the people who are in a hospital. And I also remember that the socialist government of which you were the secretary of state drew 650 billion forints out of health care, caused chaos, confusion and confusion by the dismissal of medical workers, 6,000 workers, and abolished hospital beds, 16,000 beds. You have supported this policy to the point where, on the other hand, we have launched a policy, honourable Member, which has results. On the one hand, additional resources in the Health Insurance Fund. This is not particularly a question, because it is a matter of numbers. There was this figure during your administration for HUF 1691 billion, but you took it down to HUF 1417 billion by 2010, this year it will be HUF 2059 billion, and next year it will be HUF 2315 billion. This shows how you withdrew money from the Health Insurance Fund, and how this government increased the total amount of the Health Insurance Fund between 2010 and 2018 by HUF 891 billion. It is also quite clear that this government was only able to take a meaningful stand against the waiting lists, which you mentioned. You haven't even introduced a waiting list, exactly so you don't know how big the waiting lists are. We introduced this, it started on 1 July 2012. Then there were 70,170 patients on the waiting list. 70 170. On 1 September this year, 27 149. Hungary is in the first part of the European Union in terms of waiting lists, hospital waiting lists in Hungary, like in Britain, are waiting for interventions in Hungary as much as in Britain. The basic salary of nurses will be increased by 65 percent in the last year and the following years, until 2019, and the doctors working in healthcare will be increased by 207 thousand forints last year and this year, in two years in two installments. In order to supply medical supplies, 3517 young people have participated in the residency support programme so far, they have not gone abroad, as you mentioned, but they have agreed to work for this extra scholarship without any thanks in public-funded hospitals, with a total of 3517. In the last year of your government, 845 young Hungarian doctors were removed from the university as Hungarian citizens and asked for permission to work abroad. 845. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Their number fell to 398 by 2016. We'd like to go this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-90	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, you say that you do not remember much about the time of socialist government - well, you must be young to save this circumstance. But he's done his homework again. He didn't do one thing: how would he answer the question of why they wouldn't talk to anyone about health care? Secretary of State, I'd like to give you a statement: 55 percent of Fidesz voters find access to healthcare unfair. At Jobbik, this rate is 89 percent, 80 percent at MSZP, so I wouldn't underestimate the fact that more than half of their voters think that what they have now is unfair. However, Secretary of State, in order for your voters to see this healthcare system as fairer, perhaps we should not give up the lesson, but speak to the actors in health care. And I don't want to discuss who pulled what out of health care. You're a long way from talking about it, but you don't talk about it. I don't accept the answer, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 24 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2017-10-02-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to show you, through a few examples, how Hungarian health care treats patients under your command. First of all, it is perhaps important to clarify where Hungarian health care is, what is the situation in our country, in our offices, in our hospitals, and what is the situation in the area of Hungarian health indicators. Unfortunately, with one of the worst health conditions in Europe, Hungarians may be ashamed, and in particular, those over 60 are in a particularly bad place. In society, the rate of cardiovascular, sugar and other chronic long-term diseases is the highest among pensioners or close-ups. 10 percent of people over 60 have two chronic diseases, and 3 percent have three or more chronic diseases. No wonder, then, that the most money spent on medicines on the annual level, 16 billion forints, is spent only by a small age group, the 65-69-year-olds. This is because, unlike the EU average and the EU custom, residents have to pay the extra, i.e. the rest of the pharmaceutical expenditure in Hungary is paid by the residents, while at least two thirds by the state in the EU countries. And if you look at the data that 72 percent of men over 70 years of age, while 85 percent of women are regular drug users, you can see the burden on the elderly in Hungary, and the low level of state aid is even sadder. But we can also give an example of how the state provides for sick pensioners, which, for example, has been in the media as wildfire in older cancer patients in the past, and this was the government's decision not to use the aided drugs in the treatment of certain cancers for people over 75 years of age. That is, these cancer patients over 75 years of age are virtually abandoned by the state because they are excluded from state-of-the-art therapies. There is nothing else to say about this than that it is a model example of the selection between the elderly and young people and within the elderly. You have created a health care that has a clear message: the older you are, the less right you have to live and heal - this is what the government sends to elderly patients. However, we could list some of the missed measures, such as the development of a complex system for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, but we have never heard Zoltán Balog talk about, for example, the fulfillment of the rights of the elderly to recover from the disease, but we have not heard, for example, how long-term the government has the idea of making health more elderly. But there could be a dozen more points to what the government has missed over the last seven years and what more needs to be done, but let the questions stand instead of omissions. Why did the government leave the Hungarian pensioners to buy their medicines? [[15.50]] Why do you allow Hungarian pensioners to receive the least state aid in purchasing medicines? Why didn't you pay attention to the development of an elderly health care system? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Both you and your previous colleagues were worried about older people, patients and Hungarian health care. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, how many doctors are sitting in the benches of the Hungarian opposition! Zero, none. When the electoral lists had to be drawn up in 2014, no opposition party thought that a doctor should be brought into Parliament. All Members of Parliament with medical qualifications are sitting in the benches of Fidesz and KDNP. [[Lajos Korózs: Why is health policy so bad? Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They didn't do this because it wasn't important to you. The only thing that was important to you was political sharing, political conflict, and you weren't particularly interested in getting a doctor's degree here. [[György Balla: The traveler is here in Jobbik, who sends doctors abroad!]] to the parliament, not one party of the opposition. [[György Balla: Traveling doctors abroad! He's sitting in the Jobbik. Dr. Gábor Staudt: You brought them home!]] It is therefore clear that there is no medical representative in the opposition. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But is there a representative in the opposition of an exporter of medicine? [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] This is in the opposition. So, if we look at the attitude of the opposition - and here, let us say, Jobbik, above all, because you have now interpelled the government, Congressman - how you relate to health care, doctors, doctors have not been given the respect or respect that a doctor is included on their list. [[György Szilágyi: Géza Gyenes!]] And get into Parliament. Is this your fellow Member? [[Rumors and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] You're not a fellow Member, you're behind by a round, honourable Member. But you admitted that none of the doctors were important, but it was important to have an exporter of a doctor machined into Jobbik's ranks even in the meantime. [[Rumors and sounds from Jobbik's ranks: Ouch!]] Because there are Members in Jobbik who are very important to money and power, and they have a supporter who also cares about money. They found each other here because there's a lot of money in health care. Therefore, a statement was signed by the gesture of an ex-member who was one of his great supporters when the visit fee was created, and sometimes he said that he was his inventor, and Jobbik also signed a statement in which it was recorded that the parameters of paid Hungarian health care had to be determined. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: We didn't say that! That's a lie! He's lying! They teach you that at KDNP? It's the Christian ideals!]] He signed with Ferenc Jobbik Gyurcsány, signed with the Hungarian Socialist Party [[Grumbles and interrogations in the ranks of Jobbik, including: Lies! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and all opposition formations. That's where they got a consensus. Some have previously been able to cover their livelihood by exporting a doctor and profit from it, and now a joint statement in which it can be found literally in addition to many other things that are about Hungarian paid health care. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including: This is also a lie!]] It seems that the consensus in which parties to the opposition can agree on health care is that patients pay more and that they can get as much profit out of it as possible. [[Tamás Sneider: What about the elderly?]] Who, at Jobbik, is the mysterious businessman who might make a profit on health care, I leave it to everyone's imagination, but there is no wide choice of who the real owner of Jobbik is. As far as the false news is concerned, honourable Member, what you have said again, I think you have already written this on a written question, and other opposition representatives, and as many Members have written it, we have denied that there is no discrimination or consideration in relation to the age of cancer patients. Those who suffer from cancer and need certain medications to try to cure him will get it. Even though you received the rebuttal in the press, despite having received the written rebuttal of your questions, you will again stand up here and try to operate with these false news reports to prove that health care is not working well, and therefore privatisation is required, and then the profits you have already put in your pockets from medical exports will come. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-96	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-97	I do not accept the Secretary of State's reply, the Secretary of State's answer. Mr. Secretary, with those lies, you've only taken time from one thing. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, including: Shame on you!]] to explain to Hungarian pensioners, the Hungarian patients who spend their money on medicine, why, for example, they have to pay double in their own pocket in the pharmacy when the medicines are replaced, as in Slovakia. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No need.]] Of course it's true, Mr. Secretary. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] Go back to your fallen secretary of state and ask him what the real data is. Ask the experts who have turned their backs on you, because they've clearly seen nothing over the last seven years, write and tell me they did nothing to save health care. There was constant hesitation. You had the historic opportunity in 2010 [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] To save this country from this. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: Shame! Shame! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And what did it become? [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What's he become? Older people have to pay more than all other countries in the EU for their medicines [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: You're lying! It's absolutely a lie.]] And they didn't do old-fashioned health care. Jobbik has developed a system of drug support in which chronic patients, including the elderly, will benefit better. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Especially Lajos Simicska!]] You've been talking about this for the last seven years. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They didn't even think about it.
u2017-10-02-98	I'm waiting for your answer, Congressman. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-10-02-99	Shame on you! I don't accept the answer. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: Shame! Shame! Applause in the same place.]]
u2017-10-02-100	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 26 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Why do not they give a quota to hospitals, medicine to patients? It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-10-02-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Luckily there is a record, I am very pleased that it will be in the minutes when the Secretary of State says that Hungarian health is working very well. I'm sure it's working. I'm sure it's working at the hospital in Kútvölgy. What you're seeing is definitely working, but believe me, the health system isn't working. The colleagues of the pro-government Members probably also think that it works very well, which is why they were yammering here during the previous comment. It's not working. On the basis of the complaints received to us, the destruction of social security institutions is not only a threat to safe patient care, but in a specific case the patient did not receive the medicine. Our letter writer hasn't received a drug called Orencia in months. His condition [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It can also cause serious deterioration, no matter how much fun the governing party is having, and no matter how good a laugh it is, Congressman Vancsura. [[Delight and murmur from the pro-government benches.]] The lack of medicines is not because it is inaccessible, they are not included in the list of substances that are not available for external reasons. This is something else; quotas for more expensive, newer, more specific medicines have not been allocated to hospitals in time. It is a quota, it is also a quota, a life-threatening quota, which determines how much a hospital can issue in a given period of time. It is quite amazing, during the previous period, hospitals were able to calculate this quota for a year in advance, and today, better than ever, it is only a month, but sometimes they can't hold it either, and they don't know how much of these quotas they're getting for a month in advance. Hospitals could plan ahead for a month, but on the one hand, they simply have no idea what the future will bring, or rather the desire of the Ministry's bureaucracy. In any case, the bureaucratic burden on fixed-sum medicines has been increased by means of unpaid overtime for workers. This gives them less time for real work, which, of course, only affects the sick again. Hospitals do not know when they will have a quota and when they will finally become a medicine, and because there is no independent Ministry of Health, no independent background institutions, procurement, price, contracting, allocation of quotas is delayed, papers are circulating in the Mammoth Ministry instead of being distributed. The drug budget ran out in September, three months before the end of the year, and the question is whether that's why you're suddenly saving money, and that's why you're sacrificing sick people or sick people's recovery. You're yelling daily about refugee quotas, but instead you should be talking about miserable, chaotic drug quotas. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I'd like to completely deny that this is the case that you've said with these special medications. All patients here will, of course, receive the medication they need to treat them. [[16.00]] There is no doubt that we have changed the purchasing process for these high-value medicines, and these various suppliers and producers can now make much less profit only from the production of these medicines and the sale of them to the public health system. But regardless, I absolutely deny what you have just said here, that the drugstore would have run out, or that there would have been no framework for the purchase of these drugs. It seems that you have a very tight quota, not only has your MEP told you that you cannot imagine a solution to the crisis other than the introduction of a compulsory quota system, but that is all you see and try to do elsewhere. Fidesz-KDNP has tried to ensure safety throughout the supply of medicines: on the one hand, to create stability in the drug register and, on the other hand, to lower the price of medicines, and, on the third, to open pharmacy to non-liberalised investors, but rather to hand over it to professional investors and pharmacists. We had a difficult task here, since the socialists liberated it. Not only did pharmacists have the pharmacy, but they managed to raise the apothecary's property to over 50 percent with public programs and intervention. As regards the social security aid for medicines and the fee for reimbursement of medicines, honourable Member, we have managed to lower these prices by using the blind system. In 2011-13, patients had to pay for medicines by HUF 10 billion, and again by HUF 2 billion in 2014. In 2016, the price of 499 medicines decreased, with an average salary of HUF 639 less. This year, the price of 349 products decreased by an average of 111 forints. If you look at how much more or less patients who regularly trigger medication pay now than a few years ago, you will see that on average they pay 3 thousand forints less each year. So while the price of many things is increasing, the price of medicines in Hungary has not only not increased, not only has it not increased to an extent comparable to inflation, but it has decreased and has to be paid less. The medicine of a peripheral arterial disease, which was HUF 918 in 2016, was now reduced by HUF 111. The price of high blood pressure medicine also decreased by HUF 526 and the price of cholesterol lowering drug decreased by HUF 354 compared to last year. So the price of the most common medicines, the fee that patients have to pay, especially for elderly patients, they have decreased, so we have tried to reduce the burden on the population. At present, the government provides 44 active substances, 49 products, targeted biological, therapeutic, immunonological, life-saving and other purposes in the system you mentioned. These have been received and continued to be fully free of charge, free of charge. 50,000 patients received these medicines free of charge. In order to be better followed, so that there is no mistake that you have been aiming for, so in 2012 we developed a fully online reporting system, precisely to ensure that high value modern medicines and patients are followed. In Hungarian, administration does not burden hospital workers, fully automated monitoring of the system, and made it online-monitorable for everyone. In addition, in 2016, 15 more innovative active substances were added to the free-of-charge kit. Thus, this free therapy has become even more accessible to thousands of patients. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-104	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Mr. Ákos Hadházy if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I cannot accept it, since it did not answer or deny the most important question and the basic question. He gave me a lot of numbers, but he didn't answer the point. It did not deny that these quotas decreased from one year to one month. Imagine how many of these drugs have been available in hospitals for a year. From now on, they've got a month ahead of them to figure out how much they're gonna have. As you said, these are biological products, which are unique, very often based on the individual assessment of the patient, specific medicines depending on his individual condition. It can't be replaced, it's not like I'm giving you an Algopyrin instead of a Rubophen, and it's just astounding to think about this one-month period. Finally, let me refer back to one of your previous arguments. You said there was a doctor among you, there is no doctor among the opposition, but there is no Minister of Health among you, and I think that is the real problem. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-106	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 23 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. There are still huge differences between unemployment and pay indicators in each county. It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2017-10-02-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are huge gaps in the labour market, which increases the scale of the slippage. That is what we hear day after day in the walls of Parliament. You can see the differences in the relations between the Hungarian counties in Hungary, while in the west there is 2-3 percent unemployment, while in the east it is 7-9 percent unemployment. I'm telling you, he slipped, because the few hundred thousand people you're talking about are people working abroad, and they're being recorded in Hungarian statistics; or 200,000 people are being taken into public employment. And that, we know, is not the competition sphere, as you promised before 2010. But there is also a slip in terms of net wages. Think about it. They've been stealing from minimum wage people for six years. They received less purchasing money than they did in 2010. We are here now that this check has been settled, but they only stood for the stolen money in this period, and, of course, they have imposed a tax and tax burden on the 2010 month that employers and employees have paid today against HUF 32,000. If they had allowed them not to grow in the form of taxes or contributions but to be hired, they would now have net wages above HUF 100,000 on the minimum wage. But in terms of net wages, there is also the contradiction that while in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County the net average wage is around 130 thousand forints, in Budapest it is 240 thousand. It is not the Budapest that much, not to make it clear; it is the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county net, it is the frighteningly few. The difference is 110,000 forints, by the way. But in Zala, Borsod, Nógrád and Békés, people who work, who sweat every day make less than 150,000 net. But even if we look at the last five or seven years, the Hungarian wages do not increase, but decrease, even in relation to the Slovaks, the Czechs and the Poles at the Visegrád 4 level. We're gonna miss them. Hungarian people make less money, no matter what we watch, no matter whether we watch minimum wage or average salary. And in the meantime, you have created a multitude of low-added investments in a failed strategy with low salaries, resulting in even lower pensions. Well, that's what you bring to the people. Why, why not take action to narrow down the huge unemployment gap; to narrow down the huge wage gap within the country; to avoid such a big difference in the wage balance between the East and the West in Hungary? And why don't you take action so that everyone can take care of the money that provides the basis for a decent living after their decent work? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to respond to your eclectic and non-slip-free interpellation, but before I begin to respond to the substantive data, I would like to remind you that when we took over government from you, there was an unemployment rate of 18 percent in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, 17.7% in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, and 17.5 percent in Nógrád County. These were the counties where unemployment was highest in the country in 2010. If I may remind you, if you don't happen to remember, this was the last year of your government, you left us with this, which you left to the country. [[16.10]] On the other hand, according to the latest data from KSH, the unemployment rate in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is 8.8 percent, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemple was 5.5 percent, while the unemployment rate in Nógrád County was 6.8 percent in the second quarter of 2017. In all three of the most disadvantaged counties in the country, unemployment has been reduced to less than half in the last seven years. This is considered to be an extremely great achievement and progress in terms of reducing people's territorial differences, of course. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we have taken a number of decisive employment policy measures that have succeeded in achieving faster improvements in disadvantaged areas compared to the national average. Although we have told you many times, it seems that you have failed to remember what these steps were, what programs they were. For example, one of the very important programmes is the job protection action, which stimulates businesses' labour demand by reducing the costs of employment, which gives them a better chance of finding a job in the more disadvantaged regions of the country, among people who, by their age and social situation, are more disadvantaged in terms of employment policy. We've been thinking about them, not the way you guys talk about it all the time. In addition, this year we launched a HUF 10 billion job-creating application, where it is a highly supported category if the investment is carried out in disadvantaged districts or settlements, or if businesses hire a public employee for the new job. You are mistaken, Mr President, that, in order to reduce wage differences between counties, the government would not have done very much, although I have already said this several times, and I have also shown with figures that you are wrong. In addition, the government can have an impact on market wages by raising the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage for skilled workers. Thanks to this year's significant increase, wages have increased to the greatest extent in less developed areas, so it is not true what you said that the wage gap between difficult areas and more developed regions has increased, because this happened with the opposite sign. Thus, in the first half of 2017, the average earnings in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, Heves, Tolna, Nógrád, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén increased significantly above the national average. This serves to reduce territorial wage differences, which, by the way, if you do not believe me, look, the statistical data is readable and interpretable. In recent years, in the last two years, in 2016 and 2017, Hungary's wage rise was highest among the V4 countries as well. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So everything you just said as an excuse is not true in a way that can be treated as a fact. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask you to accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-110	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-111	This? Is that an answer, Mr. President?
u2017-10-02-112	Congressman, we're waiting for...
u2017-10-02-113	He's an A in the production of lying statistics. It's an A.I.! Compared to behind wages, V4, Europe - there is more of a poor grade. I have to say that lying statistics include the rejection of everyone in the supply systems who could be, a multitude of people with unfortunate fates. Get out of the street, just don't be in the filing systems. A million new jobs have been promised in the economy. On the farm! Not by Hungarians working abroad! Not in public employment! On the farm! [[Péter Cseresnyés: Why is that not part of the mastery?]] A multitude of lies, a tsunami of lies, that's what you're doing! With regard to wage differences: yes, there was a difference of 40-50 percent in 2010, but now in the relations between Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and Budapest this is almost 90 percent. Secretary of State, consider your words, because you are so far from telling the truth in this regard that you are very much! Low salaries and even lower pensions need to be raised...
u2017-10-02-114	I'm waiting for an answer, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-115	Mr President, that answer cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-116	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 24 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 16:00 and 15 minutes, and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We are now continuing our work with immediate questions. [[Several Members leave the Chamber.]] With all due respect to my fellow Members who are leaving the Chamber for an urgent public task, do so quietly and in as short a time as possible. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Is this democracy for you? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the ministerial answer or ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2017-10-02-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-10-02-118	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question with the title "Friends, Friends, and Others." The President appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy to answer the question because of an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the answer from the Vice-President or ask Mr President personally for it.
u2017-10-02-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. No. I'll wait for that one week. Thank you.
u2017-10-02-120	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the President will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: do they also feed children with communication? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer personally.
u2017-10-02-121	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm waiting patiently for the Minister. Thank you.
u2017-10-02-122	I would like to inform the Member that the Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Inflexibility? ! It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Intercoms in the lines of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2017-10-02-123	Thank you very much. I am advised not to accept it, but I accept Mr. Secretary of State as a reply.
u2017-10-02-124	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sure you'll remember December 2010, Mr. Secretary. In December 2010, Fidesz decided with its votes that, after 2022, Hungary is 65 years old, after which it is possible to retire. I'm sure you remember there was a popular initiative that you voted against. At the same time, a new Labour Code was born in 2011, and I would not say that it is a work law for the benefit of workers, but I would say that it is more to the detriment of them. As of 2012, this has been the case, and practically all the flexibility that existed has been trampled into the mud, giving people virtually no opportunity, who, if any, have been indestructible a few years before the retirement age. 40 years of service or barely a period of entitlement for men to retire before age. No, it's not important to you, it's not to be done. When you're 62-63, say 40 years behind your back, you get out of the labour market, you don't have a lot of chances of getting back. You can go to community service, or you can go to pre-retirement benefits for 44,000 forints. [[16.20]] An increase in age and the elimination of flexibility, together this cannot be regarded as a normal thing, yet you have done this, you have given birth to unnormal measures, contradictory, unnormal measures. The possibility of a flexible retirement practically involves avoiding impossibilities. Anyone who can or needs to work, I mean, even after the age of 65, and there must be an increase in activity. You've stopped this, too. Look, one sentence: you don't provide a minimum of living for people. You take away what's most important to them: security. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-126	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, He mentioned a lot in his speech. Allow me to try to frame some of the subjects that you have raised here. The most important objective for us and the greatest security for everyone is that anyone who wants to work in Hungary should have a job. In fact, the number of unemployed people has increased by hundreds of thousands before 2010, while since the government of Fidesz-KDNP 730 thousand new jobs have been created in Hungary, 730 thousand more people can work. This has increased to 4.4 million for the working people. In addition, Fidesz-KDNP also sought not to overtax anyone who worked, so we reduced taxes on work so that people would be more secure, not to feel that if they worked twice as much, the state would withdraw four times as much from them. If someone works twice as much and earns twice as much, they'll have to charge twice as much tax. Besides, it is important that a decent pension be given to the person who worked his life at work. On the one hand, it is about the 40, and on the other hand, the job protection action, which allows employers who employ workers over 55 years of age to deduct 50% of the social contribution tax. As a result, 340 thousand workers over 55 years of age were able to make their jobs more secure in 2016. I think that a few years ahead of retirement is the greatest risk for many people to lose jobs, because that means that in the most important years, the most important years for calculating pensions, their income may be greatly reduced. That is why the introduction of this programme was important. Seven out of ten people facing pensions are covered by the job protection action plan. This means security for older but still working people, and then an increase in pensions of 23 percent, with a purchase value of 9.5 percent, gave us the security of old age, as opposed to the overtaxation and pension reduction of socialist governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-128	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-129	Secretary of State, even the minimum wage has been taxed. Even the minimum wage! Even the minimum wage was taxed, and on top of that, it had a contribution that was 42 thousand forints more than in 2010. What are you talking about? 700,000 more workers? Where? England, Germany, Austria? Where? Public employment? Where? Secretary of State, what story are you reading? What kind of world do you live in? And in the meantime, people who spend a few years, a long decade of service behind their backs two or three years before retirement do not have any flexibility. What are you talking about? In the meantime, pensioners give many people, 450,000 people, pensions between 28 500 and 50,000 forints. What are you talking about, Mr. Secretary? Have you ever thought about it? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-02-130	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I don't know what you're thinking or what you're thinking, but mathematics may be at odds, that's for sure. While you say that as a socialist party, the party of small-money, small-income people, in your administration, has always been mistreated by the lowest earners. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: No, I didn't! You're lying!]] You have raised the minimum wage by just HUF 3,000 a year. In contrast, between 2010 and 2018 Fidesz-KDNP raises the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 138 000, while those who have a degree and are able to work as skilled workers increase their income from HUF 89 500 to HUF 180 500. You, the Socialist Party, have always failed small-money people because they have barely raised the minimum wage, because they have been on the side of multinational companies, they have listened to their interests, so they have kept wages low, and Fidesz-KDNP has increased the minimum wage from 73,000 to 138 thousand. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-132	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply and respectfully ask my fellow Members to listen to the person who is responding. I seem to recall the Secretary of State listening to you as well. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When do you switch from the international capital side to the Hungarian employees' side? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2017-10-02-133	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait another week for the Prime Minister.
u2017-10-02-134	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: 'Does pensioners need action instead of words, or when do they abolish drastic austerity measures for pensioners? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr Péter Cseresnyés Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for the answer personally. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman has indicated her acceptance of the State Secretary's reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-02-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As of July 2013, the majority of the government modified the pension law so that since then retired civil servants could not receive their pensions and wages at the same time. The then fidesz justification was that the economic situation of the country required this harsh austerity measure. But that wasn't true back then! The number of people affected, about 4,000 people, is dwarfed compared to the number of pensioners over 2 million, and the savings achieved by taking their pensions - we are talking about a total of 10 billion, i.e. less than 3 thousand of the pension fund - could not contribute to the reduction of public debt. However, when considering the social cost of the measure, there is already much more damage. It has now become clear that Hungary's burning labour shortage cannot be resolved without pensioners wishing to work. In the case of healthcare professionals, this was already felt by the government, and he was forced to allow it, since hospitals could have remained without a doctor and nurse. However, it would also be necessary to re-employment of pensioners with working skills and experience in other public service areas. The 2013 circumstances that could provide a reference basis for the introduction of drastic pension restrictions are no longer present. For example, Hungary is not under the excessive deficit procedure. At the same time, if young and middle-aged qualified Hungarians continue to flow abroad, the work of pensioners will continue and be increasingly needed in Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, When are you going to realize that you made a huge mistake by excluding pensioners from the public sector? When will the austerity measures imposed on pensioners be abolished? Thank you and I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm just gonna fix my microphone first because it fell apart. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have used different concepts here, perhaps the last time you've used the negative ringing concept or semi-phrase of when we admit our mistake, that we've made such a serious mistake that we didn't allow the employment of pensioners in the public sector, we didn't allow it. After seeing that on some occasions the memory of the right-wing Members is not very accurate, I would like to say that at the time when this measure was adopted - you said 2013 - there was a different situation in Hungary. [[16.30]] It was then that we needed to help young people, middle - aged people, who were looking for work so that they could get settled. As a result, the result of this situation was that we did not use the residence or employment of pensioners as a priority. But things have changed. It can also be seen that the government is always trying to respond to the situation in the right way, by analysing the right situation. One of the very important elements of this reaction, which has just come before Parliament as a legislative amendment, is the functioning of pensioners' cooperatives, which can bring many, many pensioners back to the labour market, including in order to meet the labour demand that the labour market is delivering and demanding from today's Hungarian economy. Part of this could also be the problem-solving that you, as a problem, have just said, and which we will respond to as a solution. We are working on proposals that can respond to this problem. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-138	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2017-10-02-139	For the 600 thousand Hungarians who staggered abroad, because they did not find their way in Hungary, there will not be enough questions for the problem of pensioners' cooperatives. And since the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, has just held a roll call, then allow me to hold a roll call, too, who were the ones who rejected the better proposal to change the pension law, so who are the supporters of austerity measures in the ranks of Fidesz-KDNP: such as Gabriella Selmeczi, Ildikó Bene, József Kovács, Sándor Kovács, Ágnes Molnár, Márius Révész, Gábor Zombor and Péter Harrach. Yeah, oops. There are very many in your ranks who do not want to support pensioners, who continue to support austerity measures that would shame even the Gyurcsány government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-140	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-141	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Since your one-minute response was not a response to my two-minute response, I would not want to talk about that problem any further, because it is not, in your opinion, a problem as important as you thought it was to express your speech in its title and content. However, I would like to respond to whether this 600 thousand is 600 thousand or not. There are very serious debates going on, and it may not be possible to say this 600,000 number responsibly on someone's mouth if they cannot prove that there are actually so many. But that's not the problem. You said there were 600,000 people out of the country. I wouldn't hurt those people with an adjective like the one you've been referring to now, the people who temporarily and periodically work abroad. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Maybe to get some experience, a little practice in their own profession, and then they'll come back. More respect for each person who tries themselves elsewhere than you gave them! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! It's another genre. The genre of dialogue takes place elsewhere, here we listen to each other, the question and the answer - for everyone. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Márta Demeter, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question... - [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Fellow Members! Would you allow us to continue the meeting? Thank you. - Where's the Orbán plan? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2017-10-02-143	I don't accept it, Mr. President. Prime Minister will have to answer in person. Thank you.
u2017-10-02-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who is right? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-10-02-145	Although it concerns Minister, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-10-02-146	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for the answer personally. [[Márta Demeter: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-02-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. In mid-2016, you reorganized the chimney sweeping service. The government couldn't have interfered, but the public service, i.e. 90 percent of the task, was installed in disaster management. The service became free, but from here on out, disaster control people set up everything that didn't know how to do it, and in a lot of places from here, there was no chimney control. The number of fire-fighter's distress calls for carbon monoxide has therefore increased four times, and in the last year the number of deaths has doubled, the last two children died of carbon monoxide poisoning. Now that you and the disaster protection are not responsible for not working, the mandatory chimney sweep for family houses will be abolished. Because you can't perform a task, you'll be wiped out. Mr. Secretary. Lots of people heat with wood or waste. They're in even greater danger from now on. Would you really trust people to judge when to maintain the chimney? Secretary of State, the chimney sweep will cease in entire settlements. It's heating season, people are gonna die. My questions are, what are you going to do to stop more people dying because of your irresponsible choices? My question is whether they will finally negotiate with the profession and whether they will withdraw the amendments that are being made a year ago and the changes that require people's lives. You know, Secretary of State, those who have fallen victim to these terrible decisions can no longer be brought back, but they can now prevent these amendments from being withdrawn so that more people die because of irresponsible decisions. So that's what you guys look like with the rent cuts? Does it cost people lives? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-148	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I reject your claims. On the one hand, his statement is incomprehensible that legislation on chimney sweeps could not have been changed by Parliament. He did it, he could do it. Obviously, if it hadn't been, the Constitutional Court would have prevented this. On the other hand, the tasks relating to chimney sweep have never been as high-quality as during the current period. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you're familiar with previous chimney sweep anomalies, you know very well that the citizens basically treated it as a tax, they took out the chimney sweep with a note. The professional organisations that are shouting loudly today in the chimney sweep case, where have they been in the last decades, when hundreds of thousands of chimneys have become extremely bad, and these extremely bad conditions have emerged during recent surveys and reviews. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In every apartment building, every block house, every bunk house and every house where chimneys are checked on the basis of not a single owner's decision and intention, it will continue to be in the traditional system, notified in advance by disaster protection personnel where disaster control is carried out. By the way, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of the municipal task, around 60 percent of the country still does not carry out the chimney sweep, it was the decision of the municipalities to whom to entrust it. In houses where the owner lives in his own house, so a single house, a family house, the owner can really decide when to call the chimney sweeps and will perform this service at the time he decides. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.40]]
u2017-10-02-150	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-151	Mr. Secretary. I'm shocked at this cynical response. You can say that you've never had a chimney sweep at such a high standard! Explain this to those whose families died, which could have been prevented if chimney sweeps continued to do the chimney sweep! Again, is this the reduction in the rent? Smile and stab society in the back. On that basis, what other task will be removed? The technical exam for cars or schoolwork? [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] After all, how do you feel about that? People's lives are at risk, and that could be prevented. Check with the profession, rerun the chimney sweeps. This can't work any other way. And such an extremely cynical response is not acceptable. You're almost blaming the chimney sweeping trade. There's no legal or moral basis for that. Make a difference, you can do it now. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2017-10-02-152	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Again, I reject all of your claims. Otherwise, if you lived in Hungary and knew the situation, you would know very well that [[Marta Demeter will spread her arms. Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] there have been extremely many criticisms of chimney sweeping over the past few years. [[György Szilágyi: Twice as many deaths... how do you explain it? The president's ringing the bell.]] And it is very regrettable that people are dying during the heating season, but it must be said that these deaths are mainly due not to the state of the chimneys, but to the extremely bad condition of the combustion plants. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I've got the rent cut! The economy is flying! We live better!]] It has also been regulated in such a way that, in the case of the replacement of combustion plants, the replacement of boilers requires the installation of modern combustion plants that absorb air from the outside and do not breathe air from the living space. So there is a big difference in whether the death or the accident is caused by chimneys or by the poor condition of the combustion plants. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Due to poverty, Minister of State! Because of the booming economy!]]
u2017-10-02-154	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament... Congresswoman! I didn't mean to warn you before, but it looks like I have to do it anyway. This question was raised by Congresswoman Márta Demeter [[Ildikó Borbély: And?]] And you've been commenting on it. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Sure!]] Ask me a question, and I'll give you the answer. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I did not take it seriously, Mr President.]] Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question... [[Moore from the benches of MSZP and Jobbik. Gyula Budai: You're scared, aren't you? Defiance and intervention from the benches of opposition parties, among others: Is it Czeglédy? Sit down. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We have mutual respect for each other so much that it is possible to give the word in Parliament. I think I'll do that to you, and I can only expect it. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question: Where is the money stolen from Metro Project 4? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-155	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your protection, Mr President, but I think that I can still defend myself from some of my fellow Members in the better benches. In the biggest corruption scandal of all time, the 4th metro project, hundreds of billions of forints disappeared, and it has now become completely clear, either on the basis of the published data or on the basis of the OLAF report, that most of these funds have been transferred to representatives of socialist and free democratic governments. [[György Szilágyi's constant intervention.]] Among these are Members who are active in politics and want to be the dominant figures of the Balliberal side, whether Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai, Péter Medgyessy, Gábor Demszky, Csaba Horváth, Gy. Erzsébet Németh or Miklós Hagyó. [[György Szilágyi: Commissioner for Accountancy...]] So, as I said, nearly HUF 166 billion disappeared from the subway investment, this is about a third of the subway investment, and these reports, which support this, clearly define the responsibility of socialist and free democratic governments. Therefore, it is important to find the money and to account for the persons responsible for this, who stole or cheated the money from the subway investment, because we must not forget that the European Union has obliged Hungary to repay nearly HUF 59 billion in connection with the investment. At the same time, it remains clear that the MSZP remains a cover for those involved in this matter. It is no coincidence that neither the Parliament's Committee of Economic Inquiry nor any socialist politician appeared before the Committee of Inquiry in the Capital, except Péter Medgyessy, but he is not a member of the Socialist Party; neither Ferenc Gyurcsány, nor Miklós Hagyó, nor Gábor Demszky took responsibility for appearing before the Committee. I ask the Secretary of State what his position is in this matter. When will the truth finally be revealed, and when will we get a specific answer to where? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Did these money seem like it? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. György Szilágyi: The former Commissioner for Accountancy asks...]]
u2017-10-02-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, according to OLAF's investigation and the published protocol, irregularities were found at 167 billion in 64 contracts out of a project worth EUR 452 billion. From this, as you have mentioned, 59 billion are EU funding, so if the legal basis and the amount of funding are to stop, Hungary will be subject to so many reimbursement obligations. Of course, the other parts suffer the same damage, which was partly paid from the financing of the Hungarian budget and not least the General Assembly of Budapest. Dear Parliament, In addition to summation, the case requires more attention and seriousness than usual, because since the OLAF report, the report of the European Union Committee of Inquiry, has been public, the former liberal and socialist politicians have been silent since then, after earlier statements with offensive tone, we can now learn their views through their lawyers, if any, through them. The efforts of the government and Parliament to detect abuses and assist in investigating the case are not supported, they do not work or participate in the work of the committees set up, and they have not appeared there, with the exception of Péter Medgyessy, mentioned by you. The final report of the Committee set up by the Metropolitan Municipality, published in recent days, essentially contains the same, with the in-house study lesson and result that they are convinced that such [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This type of distribution and money could not have been carried out without active free democracy and socialist involvement. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-02-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-159	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that the investigation report prepared by the Budapest Task Force will indeed soon be presented to the Metropolitan Assembly, and it will clearly and clearly reveal who has harmed Hungarian citizens; for whom and for which parties the fraudulent money stolen during the metro investment has migrated into the cash register. However, it is also quite clear that Hungarian voters and Hungarian citizens rightly claim to know whose names the Metrodossy has hidden, who are the persons who are really involved in this matter. It is quite clear that all the threads lead to the socialists and the free democrats. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-161	Thank you. Of course, after the report and subsequent investigative procedures, those responsible must be sought out and held accountable. I would like to stress, however, that this is not the government's responsibility, but that of the investigating authority and the judiciary. If there is no doubt that the person responsible has been cleared, it is necessary, in addition to criminal sanctions, to recover the fraudulent assets. By the way, the government provides all possible assistance to both the authorities and the capital. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-02-162	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the National Development Minister an immediate question about the road, the Kiserdő and the people. What about them? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I will ask the Member, my fellow Vice-President, whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-10-02-163	Yes, Mr. President.
u2017-10-02-164	You have the floor, Mr. Vice President. [[16.50]]
u2017-10-02-165	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, My constituency belongs to the Wekerletelep of the XIX. in the district. They're real local patriot people, people who protect their homes, people who are environmentally conscious. In recent years, the road network and its plan linked to the new Danube bridge have caused a great deal of confusion between them. It is about planning a new Danube bridge, traditionally it is a new opportunity to renew or build the Galvani bridge. This was linked to the fact that, following an announcement, quite terrifying speeches were made in the case of the small forest in the Ferencváros area adjacent to the border road and on the other side of the border in the area of Wekerletelep. Dear Secretary of State, I quote a sentence:, In some respects, it is acceptable to the public concern,, which is already so weird, which is translated against the trail through the small forest. At the same time, it can be supported by expert considerations that the use of the small forest does not constitute an environmental damage to the environment to the extent that the current, seriously illegal environmental status is maintained. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the last few days or weeks, several mayors from Budapest, Mr. Mayor, have also been revealed on this issue, but not the government or the government representative. I ask the Ministry, on behalf of the Secretary of State, to tell me what is the situation here: is the little forest in danger, how is the road network of this bridge planned, and how is the question of pollution? I care more about the people who live there, the people than any trail. With all due respect, Mr. Secretary of State, what do you think of this? Thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-02-167	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the short- and medium-term road development program contains a complex leading from the Fehérvári road node through the island of Csepel, along the trail of the Scentos road, to the Üllő road. Part of this is a two-time three-track Danube bridge, the Galvani bridge, mentioned by you, as well as the intersection of the Soroksár branch. The National Infrastructure Developer shall carry out the investment tasks of planning the roads linked to the bridge. The design will include feasibility studies, environmental impact assessments and authorisation plans. The feasibility study shall assess the existing status and define the technical content to be planned. So it's not an export plan, it's a feasibility study. A version of the study plan was echoed in the press. During the design, experts will look at a number of lines, where maintaining the small forest is a priority, in addition to cost-effectiveness. The completed versions will be presented to all concerned and the final trail will then be adopted in the framework of a design jury after hearing the opinions of both the municipalities and the general public. So there's no definitive trail at the moment.
u2017-10-02-168	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to Mr. Vice President in return.
u2017-10-02-169	Dear Secretary of State, The environmental-friendly residents mentioned earlier have sent a letter to the President of the Republic. I sincerely hope that the President of the Republic will be able to write to them, obviously in line with the Government's opinion, that the little forest is not in danger. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State once again - because you have spoken about the fact that there are several variants, one of these versions does threaten the small forest - I would like to ask you very clearly to tell the people in my constituency that the government guarantees that there is no danger to the small forest, which is very important to these people, by the way, Ferencváros, Kispests and Wekerletelep. I respectfully request your answer. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-171	Thank you. Honourable Congressman, It's not just you or anyone else who cares about their daily lives. At the request of the Commissioner for Government Investments in Budapest and the Mayor, just because of what you have said, a technical solution to protect the natural environment and a delineation will be launched. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by László Földi.) In order to protect green surfaces and to preserve and improve the quality of life of the local population, plans should be agreed with the municipalities. The final decisions can only be made with the participation of the government and the local authorities, with the results that you wish for. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2017-10-02-172	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Instead of words, pensioners need action, or why do they refuse to take into account the complaints of so many workers, and why are they still on the side of the multinationals against the needs of employees? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-10-02-173	I'll take it.
u2017-10-02-174	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The issue of early retirements will affect about half a million people in Hungary today, 460 thousand people are tired and ill at work, they are no longer fit for hard physical work for eight hours. At least 80-90 percent of this nearly half a million workers are physical workers, and many of them work in the heavy industry. I would like to take a personal example from my hometown, Dunaújváros. A leading firefighter told me what humiliating circumstances a blizzard had to face in order to serve the people. After decades of work, which the poor fireman has grown old into, he has to spend the rest of his life as a doorman until his pension, he can't get up on the ladder so fast, he can't get down with a hose on his shoulder. And why this happened? 'Cause he can't take advantage of his early retirement, which he was counting on. But it's the same at Ironworks. A worker working there told me that hard physical work had a serious impact on his health, and that by the time he reached retirement age, he would be completely ruined, he would not be able to enjoy retirement as he expected, he could not live with early retirement because he had been taken away from him. Unfortunately, you don't think about the next generation either, because they refuse to pay their wages or their pensions, because these young people, children and grandchildren, if they could count on the Wage Union, their pensions would be predictable, since higher wages would be subject to higher pensions. I would therefore like to ask with respect whether you are willing to take into account the complaints of so many workers. Why aren't they still supporting the needs of the workers against the multinationals? Or are you planning to negotiate at least some form of early retirement, or will this be waiting for the new Jobbik government after 2018? Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As has been said many times today, Fidesz-KDNP has sought to offer everyone the opportunity to work, so that those who want to work in Hungary can work in Hungary, and yet one of Europe's lowest, if not the lowest, personal income tax. That is why we have launched programmes that have created more than 700 thousand new jobs, and now 4.4 million people can work in Hungary. For those who are in a position that, because of certain physical characteristics - either because they are used or because there are special expectations - cannot be exercised after a while, therefore, they should be offered other jobs, since obviously someone cannot carry out a work with a strong physical strain for many decades, but then in a few decades they will be able to fill a job that is less burdensome in their physical form, with which they can continue to work. So you can maintain your activity, your income is higher, because in general, your income is higher than your pension income, in Hungary, your pension income represents 70 percent of your work income, while in the EU about 57 percent of your average. [[17.00]] So the best thing for everyone is to be able to do a long-term job with a higher income, only to be a Fidesz-KDNP government in Hungary, and to really create new jobs and really reduce taxes. And I can't place your half sentence, honourable Member, so that the government doesn't take the side of the multinationals. I don't know exactly what makes you think this government is on the side of the multinationals. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: The amount of support for a job!]] on the basis of the bank tax introduced, you think about the special tax on insurance companies, you mean the special taxes on energy companies, the system of Erzsébet vouchers, which had previously been carried out by a few French multi-company companies, to radically increase minimum wages, or to infringement procedures that were launched against Hungary because of bill proposals to reduce the economic extra profit of multi-company companies in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-178	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Pintér. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Secretary of State, I was thinking that when you led the early retirement pension, you promised the people that the contributions paid by the larger companies to cover the early retirement pension would be realised in the wages of the people. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case. The multinationals have swallowed these amounts, so you've either slipped, or you might as well say you've lied, and you're on the side of the multinationals, against the interests of the people. But unfortunately, I also have to say that the interests of sick people are not taken into account, and they are not allowed to retire with an age discount. You have deprived these people of this opportunity, but I would like to say and clarify to everyone that from the spring of 2018 the Jobbik government will bring this system back, and people can count on it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-180	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-181	Thank you very much. In the matter of retirement, Jobbik has already said everything and the opposite of everything. In 2010, the compulsory private pension system was required to be abolished. When this was over, a few years after Jobbik's policy took a big turn, they were already opposed to these steps. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] So I believe that neither Hungarian pensioners nor Hungarian working people can trust a party that sells itself to a billionaire at any time, whether foreign or Hungarian billionaire; in the case of Jobbik, we can talk about a Hungarian billionaire. However, I think that all Hungarians can be proud that the value of wages has increased by 12 percent in the last year. People are finally making more money, and it's worth more. The wage growth is not inflected, but a real wage increase has started. Between 2010-14, we were able to improve people's living standards by reducing their overhead costs and, in addition, reducing taxes, leaving more income in the family tax system and reducing their expenditure. After 2013, economic growth started, which now also means tangible wage increases, but wage growth can only be based on Hungary. What you are building is that you will increase Hungarian wages from Brussels, and I believe that no one will take this seriously, nor their own voters. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-182	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I thank you for your cooperation, and I hand over the chair of this meeting to my vice-president. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2017-10-02-183	It is a pleasure to welcome back my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Hollik, a representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. By what means does the government help raise sports supplies? Mr. Congressman! Dear Parliament, Minister for Foreign Affairs has appointed Ms Sávolt-Szabó Tünde State Secretary for reply to the urgent public mission. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the Secretary of State as a reply. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman István Hollik has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Being Hungarian always feels good, but this year we had several reasons to be especially proud. It is enough to think that Hungary has organised two important sporting events that have made the good news of our country older. One of them was the European Youth Olympic Festival, hosted by Győr, and the largest and most prestigious sporting event ever held in Hungary, the water world. [[György Szilágyi: A masters vb...]] This gave us the opportunity to cheer at home for our best, Katinka Long, László Cseh, or even the newest discovered star swimmer, Kristóf Milák. And it is a particularly outstanding result that we have closed in ninth place on the medal table, knowing that, for example, swimming sports have an extremely high international competition. In order for the Long Katinkas of the future to grow up and produce similar beautiful results, we have to do a lot to maintain Hungary's sports power status. Therefore, the KDNP faction supports the government's sport policy and supports the government's management of sport as a priority sector. We know we have to make sacrifices for success. It is not only in the light of success that politics must shine, as in the case of socialist-free democrat governments. It doesn't work that we're proud of the results, but in the meantime, we're demagogically discrediting the government's sports facilities development programs. So action is needed to achieve good results. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how the government is helping to raise reinforcements in the field of sport. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: There was a Masters World Championship! You don't know how to do it!]]
u2017-10-02-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Tünde Savolt-Szabó, also in a two-minute time frame.
u2017-10-02-186	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Allow me to begin with some fantastic news. According to today's data, the number of confirmed athletes in Hungary has exceeded 500,000. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Lajos Korózs: I'm in it!]] More precisely, we have 501,000 athletes with competitive licenses, more than half of whom are re-enforced. The performance of our young talents fully confirms that the strategy along which we have built home-reinforcing has fulfilled our hopes and has produced convincing results. This is supported by a significant increase in the number of athletes, as the increase is 35 per cent for the high-level sports and 72 per cent for the visual team sports. By amending the Sports Act, state support for replacement training is also provided in a single channel financing system, so we directly provide resources to the sports associations responsible for the professional implementation of replacement training programmes. [[István Szávay takes the notary seat.]] The aim is to ensure that talented children in all areas of the country can train as young as possible, with a trained trainer, in safe, well-equipped facilities, with professional opportunities that help to develop their talents in the field of sport. To this end, we have developed our recruitment strategy, in the Hercules programme the preparation, support and competition of young people between the ages of 6 and 14 years of age, and in the Sports XXI programme between 15 and 23 years of age. The success of the program is confirmed by the fact that almost all our adult teams were heroesic athletes. I must highlight the support of the sports school system, the importance of national training centres for sport and training, the role of the academic system, and the recognition of coaching background work, for which we have introduced replacement training programmes. This model of careers and support for replacement programmes will continue to support successful recruitment in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-187	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Hollik.
u2017-10-02-188	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. I think it is clear from what you have said that the government and Fidesz-KDNP really regard sport as a strategic sector. There are two reasons for this: there is an economic reason. We know that every HUF spent on sport is saving health care, and we also know what a prominent role sport plays in education. We know that anyone who plays sports will learn that performance can only be achieved through hard work. As you have said, we can see that the number of certified athletes has increased significantly, by 70% for visual team sports, which proves that the government has also started in the right direction in terms of sports policy. I encourage the government, on behalf of the Fidesz and KDNP faction, to proceed on this path we have taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2017-10-02-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-190	Thank you very much. I am proud to say that the results of the mutually reinforcing system have clearly shown in recent months, and have also been recognised in international relations. 81 gold, 84 silver and 63 bronze medals show the great results of the Hungarian supply sport, which our athletes obtained during the summer months at youth, cadette, junior and adolescent world events. The Hungarian team has not been this successful in 52 years. At the EYOF in Győr, we have had the best performance this year, our junior swimmer-vb athletes have won sports history, but I could tell you about junior tennis results, young judo success, pentathlon, kayak-kenu sports. But the line is long, which shows that domestic reinforcements are also on a success course, which we will continue to do according to professional needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-191	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question. It's an address. Minister János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. [[Ikotity István nodds.]] Mr. Messenger indicates that he accepts János Fónagy as a response. Congressman István Ikotity, the notary of Parliament, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It's time for the government to face what's left of the wet world. There are two swimming pools, one in the Tüskecsarnok complex and the other known as the Dadály, Duna Arena, which cannot be used by the people of Budapest. There's the beach of the Danube. There's a ruin at the synchronized swimming site, Lake Városligeti, where the boating lake is located, which still hasn't been cleaned up. And don't forget the building of the Margitsziget Casino, it was made from 1.2 billion forints without having been finished during the water vb, even though it had a function. There's been an investigation into this. Regarding the case, John Lázár said that it might be possible to hold him accountable. Despite the considerable delay, they did not call off the millions of dollars' worth. The government doesn't seem to need this. Why? While the Budapesters lost due to the natural destruction of investments, the costs of the water World Championship skyrocketed. Just remember, Mr Secretary of State, the 2013 Government resolution, which talked about another 14 billion, and the cost of this has increased tenfold, 140 billion or more. And we haven't talked about what kind of unexpected expenditure it's gonna be to clean up the ruins, land planning. The cost of this is paid by the people, and it is ours to pay dearly forints. Dear Secretary of State, Is it normal for you to think that the budget for the water world has increased tenfold compared to the original plans? Do you think it's normal to build expensive sports complexes that people can't use? Will he ask anyone for meaningless implementation? Is it acceptable for the Hungarian State to pay ten times the original budget of the project without a sock? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And in the end, is it normal for unrealistic price increases to have no professional and political responsibilities? Who pays the price, Mr. Secretary? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-10-02-193	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the answer, as I have already said, Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-194	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have to say, neither the country nor my good feeling can take it away from a successful sporting event. Even if the numbers were really significant in the beginning. I'm sorry, it's just not true what you're saying that it's tenfold swollen. [[István Ikotity opens his arms.]] We knew at the beginning that this was not a cheap thing, but at the same time the third largest sporting event in the world cannot be organized without sacrificing to it. By the way, the total cost of the World Championship was approximately 130 billion forints, according to the compilations so far. In response to your question in particular, the final figures of the budget will have to be accounted for by the company carrying out this by 28 February 2018. This 130 billion: permanent developments and acquisitions are around 84 billion; temporary investments and developments amount to 7.8 billion; operational and organisational costs amount to HUF 38 billion according to the preliminary figures. Nor is your argument correct in that this country and the metropolitans are not profiting from it. Long-term developments related to the world event remain at home, a significant part of which should have been made even if there was no World Championship. We've only brought these things forward in time. I believe that your opinion is neither the capital nor the XIII. The district and the people living along the Danube do not share it. I think that the Danube Arena, the investments linked to the tide or the new generations of the Danube Promenade will be a pleasure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2017-10-02-196	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You didn't quite understand the point of my question. It was who was responsible for this in both material and political terms. We've initiated the setting up of a committee of inquiry, which you've already rejected on committee. Secretary of State, you cannot deny that fact, since it is recorded in a government resolution, it was dedicated to this in 2013. You have acknowledged - by the way, we believe that this amount is even more than 140 billion if all the items are counted - that 130 billion is nearly ten times more. Mr. Secretary, a simple example: you will build a family house for your family, say HUF 30 million for the construction cost. When you're done, and you're gonna put me in front of the contractor, and you're gonna tell me that you're gonna have a bill for $300 million, Mr. Secretary of State, you're gonna pay for it? Secretary of State, don't you think this has a financial and political responsibility? Don't you think we should treat public money the same way they treat their own money? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Answer that, please. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-02-198	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Political reasoning, sometimes the parliamentary debate or the accountability of the government, cannot be solved simply with malice, perversions and untruths. You know perfectly well that the numbers you mentioned are not true. [[István Ikotity's intervention.]] You know very well that the final settlement will take place. You know very well that this government is proud to assume political responsibility, and I am sure that the institutions that have conducted and organised this will also be able to take part in the detailed accounts. I am convinced, despite your sentences and your party's intentions, that Hungary can be proud of this world championship, and that both the present and the generations that follow us will be happy to use the facilities that you derail. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-02-199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 5:18 p.m., and that concludes the immediate questions. We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide the 2010 CIV on freedom of the press and fundamental rules for media content. T/16862. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Cultural Committee. First, I give the floor to the author within a five-minute time frame. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró is the author. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-02-200	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This proposal was written by life itself, the experience that man acquires in everyday politics has encouraged me to use this proposal, because injustices have been revealed and injustices have become daily practices that I believe are shameful for Hungarian political culture and for Hungarian media culture. In one year, Jobbik won a press trial in more than 70 cases against various media organisations linked to the government, the ruling parties. So, over 70 times in a year, we won a press case, and the court ordered the various press products to be corrected. [[17.20]] So it cannot be a coincidence or a mistake, and this is not only from this number, but also from the practice of these press organs in relation to final court judgments. There were times when we could not imagine that there was a mistake, for example, in cases where Gábor Vona was whistled when Gábor Vona did not even go on stage. So there's no case that's already been commented on by a press product linked to Fidesz, if that's what you'd call it. So you can see that this is a conscious, top-mandated smear campaign, and these press products are knowingly ignoring final court judgments on a series of occasions. The fact that the court still requires these organs to be corrected in 70 cases would not be so outrageous in itself if we could enforce our truth, but now, unfortunately, it has become a practice that we do not have the opportunity to do so. There are already more than ten cases where corrections are not published. Quite simply, in the case of current legislation, these press products are worth lying to, and it is worth keeping their readers lied. This is because implementing rules are such that they can do so. If a press agency is required to notify a correction, a judgment shall be final, the court shall set an 8-day time limit for the correction in its judgment. If this is completed and the correction is not published by the relevant press body, the applicant for enforcement shall request an enforcement form. The court has 15 days to say that. It is already a very long time, and it is in practice that more will be passed by the time you issue this implementation paper; then, when you have issued this, the actual court proceedings will begin. According to the automatic allocation of cases of the Hungarian Court Executives Faculty, the case is sent to an executive who calls the winner - the winner! - to pay an advance on the cost of execution, which is about 20 thousand forints. So we're at the point where we won a final lawsuit, the press product was ordered to be corrected by the court, and it's been about a month, when we still have to pay 20 thousand forints, so that something might happen to a press product who ignores a final court ruling. This call will take place in about a week, and when it does, the executive will call on the press to be kind and publish the correction within 15 days. So they're gonna win another 15 days. If it does not publish it even then the executive shall, for further action, send the documents to the court competent for the seat of the press body, where they shall decide on further means of implementation. It's been virtually months since they wrote a lie, which is a final court ruling, that it was a lie, that the court legally ordered the press to correct it, that it had to pay money to the applicant for execution, that months have passed, and that nothing is still happening. The election times are coming up, and I certainly hope that each party wants to compete fairly, although I have some doubts about this. Still, I would like the election campaign to not have any practice of going on like this. Therefore, the proposal includes the possibility of imposing a fine of between HUF 5 and HUF 50 million per day on those who do not publish the correction despite a final court ruling. I trust those on the side of the truth will support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-02-201	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I respectfully ask the factions and the independent Members if they are in - there are no - whether they wish to make their views known. [[Mónika Dunai reporting.]] Yes, I am speaking from the Fidesz Group to Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-02-202	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is no debate between us, the national group and the Fidesz group, that judicial judgments must be carried out in accordance with its order and manner. However, we also know that the enforcement of final judgments is governed by a law, namely the law on judicial enforcement. This is true of the execution of all judicial judgments in the same way as those brought here in the present case. The author proposes that we make an exception and refer to this enforcement sanction in press correction lawsuits instead of the law on the enforcement of court judgments [[Dóra Dúró: No, no!]] The Media Council's jurisdiction. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] It is possible to argue whether the enforcement law is sufficiently strict. It is also possible to argue what we can do to ensure that these correction lawsuits can be published more effectively in various press products on a mandatory basis. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This part of Pp has already been closed.]] However, the way the authors propose to refer this matter to the Media Council is not good in many ways, it is not satisfactory. One aspect is that it's not lucky. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If we refer a judicial judgment to the jurisdiction of an administrative body - I will finish it, Mr President, thank you for the warning. This can also create legal uncertainty and unnecessary duplication. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-02-203	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Staudt Gábor is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me give you some legal support for this proposal. It's not a transfer of authority, technically. It's about giving the media authority an extra tool. However, these proceedings will take place before the court. Why is that necessary? Because the current system doesn't work. Some press bodies may do that virtually ten decisions are not implemented, and the articles they write do not distort reality, but have no basis for reality. There's a good chance these articles might be written in the propaganda industry. This is why Fidesz-KDNP does not want to support this proposal. They play that when these corrections can eventually appear in these press products, no one remembers the original news, they appear as just a small note on the website or in the printed press. In fact, it can reach only a much smaller crowd of people than the basic news that is completely lying, without any reality. That's why we need the proposal. Criminal law and civil law sometimes operate in parallel. So if a person is offended, his reputation and honour are offended, he can also prosecute a private prosecutor for defamation, defamation, and in the same way, in parallel or waiting for the outcome of another procedure, he can also initiate civil proceedings for violation of his reputation, not to mention other sanctions. So this proposal is good and legally compatible with the Hungarian legal system. If you know a better solution, that these waste portals, which cannot be called press products, finally implement the final decision of the Hungarian court, then make these proposals. Believe me, we're gonna take those, too. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-02-205	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I respectfully ask Mrs Dóra Dúró, as rapporteur, whether she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dóra Dúró: Yes.]] Here you go, Congresswoman. Time frame's two minutes.
u2017-10-02-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you for your comments and I also appreciate the contribution of Mrs Mónika Dunai, as they often use the means to not comment on our proposals from the pro-government benches. [[17 .30]] But it just doesn't hold up what you said. So, if you are committed to enforcing the judgments of the court, and I mention 70 examples and 10 examples when you do not implement them, I would indicate that there is a problem in the system; if you were to make a real commitment, you would somehow remedy the situation. This regulatory system, which you have created and maintained, results in what I said earlier. This needs to be changed. I have made a proposal for this, which, of course, is not required to be considered final or accepted in this form, but something must be done with the problem. The fact that you're not doing anything with this problem and sweeping it under the rug suggests that it's very good for you. And let's not sugarcoat the whole subject, all of these cases, all 70 cases of Fidesz-related press products. It's a top-directed, conscious lie to Jobbik. The fact that in 70 cases in a year, you're obviously lying is not a coincidence. And in order to be able to enforce more effectively the final court rulings that you have said and that this leads to legal uncertainty, it is also quite simply not true. The law lays down clear rules and gives the Media Council a fine in the event of a final judgment. This does not give rise to any legal uncertainty, since it bases this right to fine on final court judgments, and, as my fellow Member Gábor Staudt said, there is no unnecessary duplication, because as criminal law can be used to deal with a particular act, so can civil law. This is not an unnecessary duplication, but only a multi-faceted assessment [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The same plot. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-207	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendments to the Act for the integration of the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General into the Hungarian Treasury and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to welcome the Minister-General, Prof. Dr. József Mészáros, who is sitting in the outer benches. Dear Parliament, The government referral is T/15866. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee, please, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-02-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 28 September 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendments to the Act necessary for the integration of the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General into the Hungarian Treasury T/15866. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. It was supported by 23 votes in favour, 7 against and no abstentions. The summary amendment contains the language and technical proposals and clarifications of the Welfare Committee. In order to achieve the simpler structure and efficient functioning of the public administration system, the government decided earlier that, from 1 November 2017, the National Pension Insurance Directorate-General would be integrated into the Hungarian Treasury. The merger also means that the Treasury must take over the tasks currently performed by the National Directorate-General for Pension Insurance. This bill resolves certain issues related to the operation of the Treasury in the context of the transformation and contains further amendments to the law required by the merger. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill relates to the implementation of government decisions on the review of central offices and of ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies, and facilitates the more efficient and modern functioning of both public administration and social security. I'd like your support for this, please. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-209	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I respectfully ask Mrs Katalin Veresné Novák, State Secretary, if she wishes to speak now. [[Katalin Veresné Novak indicates no.]] Then you'll have 10 minutes left in the locker room for manifestation. The designated Welfare Committee did not set up a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place in accordance with the time-frame on the agenda. The timeframes are on the billboards. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I respectfully ask who wishes to comment by faction. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if she wants to close. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We are now taking a five-minute break because it is necessary for a representative of the Government to begin the debate on the next item. Professor Ripper, please wait a minute. [[Secretary of State Dr. Zoltán Kovács enters the room. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. The 2011 CXCIX on public service officials follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and other related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/155992. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the committee. I thought you wanted to tell me about the pulpit from here. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert takes his place as representative.]] No, in his place, the congressman will tell us all this. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My apologies, I'm in the wrong order of business. Dear House, T/15992. The Legislative Committee held its meeting on 28 September 2017. [[17.40]] The board of the house rules 46. In accordance with Article 21 of the Rules of Procedure, 21 votes in favour, 7 against, and 2 abstentions respectively, submitted a summary amendment proposal and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains a proposal for an amendment to the Judicial Committee closing a detailed debate, which is intended only to comply with the principles of drafting legislation. Accordingly, the bill contains, on the one hand, proposals for amendments initiated and prepared by the Hungarian Government officials and, on the other hand, proposals for amendments that were justified on the basis of the results of the 2016 public service audit. Thirdly, the proposal also includes the necessary amendments on the basis of legislative feedback, which can be classified as substantive, codification and technical clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I can say that the proposal for a law of a professional nature expressly enjoys the support of the Hungarian Government's Faculty of Officials, to which I ask for your kind support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, whether he now wishes to speak as rapporteur. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: I do not wish to speak.]] Thank you very much. So I would like to inform the Secretary of State and this House that you will have a ten-minute time frame in the closet. Before I ask, I would like to inform this House that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I am now asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to speak in the debate in accordance with the deadlines set, which have just appeared on the billboard. I would also like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the debate is closed. That means that Mr Secretary of State has nothing to answer for, but if you would like to say a few points in the context of the closing, as it is considered important, I will give you an opportunity.
u2017-10-02-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's really very... [[Intercoms: No sound!]]
u2017-10-02-213	The sound system isn't working. State Secretary Zoltán Kovács, János Lázár... Is the card in, Mr. Secretary?
u2017-10-02-214	I made a mistake, there's a card in there, but I don't know whose card it is.
u2017-10-02-215	It's okay now. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-02-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Very briefly indeed. Congressman Répássy summarized the substance of the single proposal of the Legislative Committee. It is indeed a harmonisation; the Law on the Service of the Professional Staff of Law Enforcement Bodies, the Átt. , i.e. the Act on State Officials and the provisions relating to the Hungarian Government Officials' Faculty. Prior to this, the Judicial Committee has carried out language positioning and codification clarifications. This has been incorporated into the legislative committee's summary amendment proposal and is therefore supported by the government. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-217	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. We now have 67/1990 on the counties of the Republic of Hungary, on the name and seat of the counties. CHAPTER VIII Discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of the parliamentary decision of 14 October 2010 and the summary amendment proposal. The H/1726 submitted by our fellow Members, János Lázár and Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-218	Mr President, Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 28 September 2017, the members held a debate on 67/1990 on the counties, the name and seat of the counties of the Republic of Hungary. CHAPTER VIII H/1726. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and no votes against. The draft amending proposal contains the Commission's proposal to close a detailed discussion of the Judicial Committee, which covers only codification clarification. The aim of the bill is to change the name of Csongrád county to Csongrád-Csanád in view of the decision of the General Assembly of Csongrád county, which is decided by the Parliament after obtaining the opinion of the municipality concerned. Please agree to create the conditions of this symbolic case to call the county Csongrád-Csanád County at a minimum cost from 4 June 2020. Thank you for your support, thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-219	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, as rapporteur, whether he would like to speak now. I would like to inform you that your speech and closing hours have a total of 10 minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't want to say anything right now, and I'm not going to use the 10 minutes in the closet.
u2017-10-02-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place according to the time frame on the agenda, which appeared on the billboard. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I am speaking to Mr György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, You often feel that when you make a bill that you submit, that you make improvements or that you draw attention to certain codification problems, that you can improve the law that you wish to pass, you always sweep it off the table. But perhaps this is not just for the opposition, because at the meeting of the Legislative Committee and, as I understand it, before that, Mr Répássy, as a member of the Fidesz-KDNP, raised two very important issues for this law that could possibly have been resolved, and I feel that the law would have been better. One of them is the name of the amendment itself, and he suggested how Hungary and the Republic of Hungary relate to each other in this law, for example, when the Fundamental Law already uses Hungary, the term "Hungary." I think it was a legitimate suggestion, and he didn't get much of an answer from the government. And the other was perhaps even more justified that there should be some way to make up for the abbreviation of the counties, because if we are talking about Csongrád-Csanád County, then what will be the abbreviation, and there are different things raised here. By the way, the Member justified with great reason that he was from a poor county, and the abbreviation for this poor county - Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county - is not the most appropriate one, either in the media or in police reports or anywhere, and this should be resolved somehow. The only answer on the part of the government and the author was that when it is written, there are points in the middle, and it is true that the points are there, but we do not say it, and I do not want to repeat the abbreviation. I feel that Mr Répássy has drawn attention to two things that I think could have been considered on the part of the government, that could have been changed, or that an appropriate procedure could have been drawn up for this, or at least to say that, yes, that is what we are dealing with, but that has not been answered very much, neither have we. I still feel, above all, that there is this question about the abbreviation, that there is this anomaly, so I think that this government or even the author should deal with it in substance. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[17.50]]
u2017-10-02-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. Congressman Robert Répássy of the Fidesz Group, please.
u2017-10-02-224	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I add that I did not want to comment on the debate, but since Mr Szilágyi said my contribution, I am obliged to participate in the debate. You obviously remember, Mr Szilágyi, that I also made a proposal, which I think the government or the wider administration might consider, namely that the official abbreviation of the name of the counties should also be laid down in some form of legislation on how to formally record counties or county names. I realize that this is not a new problem, I was referring to the name of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, that it is a decade-old problem that they can shorten the counties in a rather de-honesting way. Since a new county name will be used here from 2020 onwards, it is appropriate to consider legislation by that date. But I do not think that this should be dealt with at the level of legislation, much simpler and with a lower level of legislation, it is possible at least for the public authorities, the official bodies, to shorten these counties as the decency tells us. In fact, there is nothing we can do if there are some abbreviations in the common or common language speech, but the official abbreviation is included in the founding document of the ministries, for example. If you look at the founding documents of the ministries, you see that the abbreviation is part of the foundation. Similarly, the county itself may decide on the official abbreviation, or a central law may decide on this. So that's why there's a solution. I believe that this issue can still be resolved by 2020 until the entry into force. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-10-02-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Yes.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-226	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, We also answered the question that was raised here once again at the Legislative Committee, and we said that this should be settled in the law on legislation. The subject of this proposal is practically a county name in a parliamentary decision. This would be a significant extension of this proposal. Mr Répássy was a fellow Member of the Council of Justice for a long time. In the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for the legislation - and it was my fellow Member who was therefore the Secretary of State in charge of the Ministry of Justice - this could have been started after or before the adoption of the Fundamental Law, if any. That is why I think that there is some time to put this right, but there has been time before, and the possibilities of the person who raised this were unlimited in this. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: But this is a parliamentary resolution!]] Congressman Répássy says that this is a parliamentary decision, but in the legislative law, the name of the counties and anything related to it could have been settled long ago if it had been such a serious problem. I don't think that's such a problem, by the way. People manifest themselves in different ways in the form of abbreviations, whatever word we use in the system. I do not want to waste too much time on this right now, because it takes time away from the point of view, but rather I would like to point out that this proposal has been supported by a number of people in Parliament. This had a civil initiative, so it was a bottom-up initiative. In some respects, the restoration of our historical sense of justice is the change of that name, and that is the essence of this legislation. The rest is less meaningful for this name in the parliamentary decision. Therefore, I would like to ask you to repeat the supporting contributions that we have heard in the context of the general debate, whether on the part of a better person or of another Member, in the final vote tomorrow at the press button. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-10-02-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. and the discussion of the Commission's reports on the amendment of Act X of 2006 on cooperatives and the summary amendment proposal. T/1731. submitted by our fellow Members Lajos Kósa, Sándor Czomba and Mónika Dunai Fidesz. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. Accordingly, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-02-228	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 28 September 2017, XCIII of 1990 discussed the fees. Act T/17315, amending Act X of 2006 on cooperatives Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution on certain house rules 46. It was supported by 23 votes in favour, 7 against and no abstentions. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the accepted amendment by János Bencsik, which, compared to the original text of the bill, extends the exemption from tax in addition to the cases pending at the time of the entry into force of the law, to the procedures that were completed prior to that date. This means that it establishes an ex post recovery obligation for the State tax authority on the basis of which pensioners' cooperatives of general interest are granted the same exemption regardless of the date on which they are registered in the register. Ladies and gentlemen, I think pensioners are a huge opportunity and resource for the country. We'd like to give the pensioners as much opportunity as possible to be active. This is the case that the opposition has so far clearly and unanimously rejected. I trust that this will change during the trial of this bill and later in the final vote. I would also ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-10-02-229	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I must now ask you whether you wish to speak in your own capacity as a national.
u2017-10-02-230	Mr President, I do not wish to speak at this stage of the debate.
u2017-10-02-231	Then I would like to inform you and this House that you have a 10-minute deadline for closing. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Later.]] There's no way to do it later, Mr. Secretary. Unfortunately, the house rules are only now giving us the opportunity to speak on the part of the government. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Then now.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-232	Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to exempt the procedure for registering pensioners' cooperatives of general interest from the current registration fee of HUF 100 thousand. The exemption would also apply to proceedings already pending at the date of entry into force of the law, and even under the amendment tabled in the context of the bill, pensioners' organisations of general interest that have already been registered by the company court could enforce the exemption. If, in the procedure for the registration of a pensioner cooperative of general interest, the levy was paid, the State tax authority would reimburse it of its own motion within 30 days of notification of the order of the Court of Justice on the refund. According to the amendment, the order is communicated by the court to the State tax authority by electronic means. The Government agrees with the introduction of a tax exemption for the registration of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest, since the favourable tax rules facilitate the establishment and functioning of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest. The objective set out in the motion is also in line with the existing favourable tax rules relating to registration procedures, which also provides for a tax exemption for the registration of non-profit social cooperatives, thereby facilitating the effective and effective functioning of these entities for the national economy. [[18.00]] The government is still of the opinion that the pensioner cooperative of general interest represents a new instrument and a regulatory model, which helps to solve problems of an employment and social policy nature. In my view, this form of employment is useful both for the economy and for the people who are retired. We hope that the practice will also confirm the achievement of the objective of the pensioner cooperative of general interest. Allow me to respond to some of the opinions expressed in the debate. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the cooperative law contains only rules on special forms of cooperatives, and the general provisions on cooperatives as a form of organisation are laid down in the Civil Code. Several times, on several speeches, there was a mix of views on this fact, which is why I considered it important to emphasise this. I would therefore like to say once again that the Government also supports the point of the amendment tabled to the bill which empowers the Government to set the minimum service fee in a regulation for a pensioner's cooperative of general interest. I am convinced that this will make the legislation complete. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank in advance the opposition parties that started from the content of the bill and indicated in their comments that they would support the adoption of the bill with their votes. I thank you for your attention, and I would like these promises to be kept during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I will ask my fellow Members who wishes to speak in the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, who is a member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-02-234	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In advance, I would like to say that we will support the current law and the amendment, the substantive amendment and not the stylistic and linguistic amendment, because if we make it easier for pensioners to register financially, then let us do so, even in retrospect. However, I have to argue with Mónika Dunai, just as I had to argue with Lajos Kósa about the general debate of the law. It was not us, it was Fidesz-KDNP and the government that prohibited pensioners in the first place, those working in the public service, from being pensioners at the same time and from continuing their public service activities. A public service activity has, of course, been omitted, and this is nothing more than the status of parliamentary representatives. Interestingly, their own pensioners, such as Péter Harrach, Sándor Pintér, did not wish to grant a pension exemption. So I have to say, this was another kind of slide. We disagree with that, and we didn't agree to take the law away from them, and then return it to them again in a cooperative form that gives them the opportunity to do business. Why did you have to make such a fuss? It's a bit of a horse's foot, I think, and we, with this hanging horse's foot, didn't agree with this cooperative system. Once again, it wasn't us who didn't allow the pensioners to work, it wasn't us who took away the right from the pensioners to pursue employment, it was you. So on behalf of my faction, I challenge these sentences. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mrs Mónika Dunai, on behalf of the authors, if she wishes to close, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-10-02-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members very briefly for the detailed debate and for their comments on this occasion. I think that, compared to the proposal originally tabled, it has improved during the debates and during the amendments, and the proposal has improved even more. Here is the amount from which pensioners' cooperatives will no longer be exempt at the time of registration, which is a small lot of HUF 100,000. It is very important that the originally submitted bill aimed at applying to the entries already in progress and to the subsequent entries, and, as I mentioned, several parties have indicated that it would be desirable to amend this legislation in such a way that it aims to apply to already registered cooperatives. This was done by my fellow Member, János Bencsik, supported by the Committee. So I think that now the picture is complete, that is to say, the bill also applies to the registered pensioners' cooperatives, the existing pensioners' cooperatives and the pensioners' cooperatives that will be registered afterwards. Thank you once again for the positive attitude, the intention to support it, and I hope that this House will adopt the bill with quite a consensus on tomorrow's vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-02-237	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1991 XLI on notaries. a debate on the Commission's report on the amendment of law and certain laws on the subject of justice. The government referral T/16818. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] I would like to inform you that you will have a 10 minute time frame for the closing hours. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not issued a rapporteur. There are now speeches by the Members, in the time frame on the agenda; in the course of the debate, as has already been so many times, there is no two-minute comment. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] The debate is closed. I do not think that Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, has yet to reply. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the debate on the Commission's report on the rules to be applied in court proceedings and on certain non-court proceedings. Government referral T/17166. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform you and this House that you will have a deadline of 10 minutes for closing. I will also inform this House that the designated Judicial Committee has not presented a rapporteur. There will now be speeches by Members, in the time frame on the agenda and in the course of the debate there will be no two-minute comment. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'm guessing Mr. Secretary of State has nothing to answer for. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the amendment of the rules on the protection of patterns of use is now under discussion. The government referral is T/17307. , together with all relevant Commission non-individual documents, is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. I would like to inform you that you will have a period of 10 minutes to close accordingly. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform this House that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place, in the time frame on the agenda, and the timeframes will be shown in the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. [[18.10]] I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to close. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. I ask Congresswoman Dóra Dúró if she's ready, because we're different in time - that's all I've been waiting for. From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Dóra Dúró applied for a speech on the agenda with the title of "Learning the Elders and Cultural Life" instead of words. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-10-02-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the occasion of World Elderly Day, Jobbik calls for a change in attitudes towards older people and social issues. When we talk about old age and older people in various social and public discourses, it is usually two aspects of this whole issue that come to the fore: on the one hand, health, obviously, absolutely rightfully, and I do not want it to be taken away that we must do everything possible to ensure that as many of our countrymen as possible are able to spend their old years in health, and on the other hand, as a social issue, as a question of the pension system, what the state must do, what the state should do about the elderly and towards the elderly. But I think that the view is wrong if we limit the concern for the elderly to these two areas alone, the occupation of the elderly, because this is primarily, I think, a question of society as a whole, a question of quality of life for the elderly, what we are talking about, what we are talking about. On the other hand, this has a very powerful human dimension and a family dimension, of course. In various public discourses, many of us talk more and more about what careers we offer to individual people. They are usually related to occupations: there is a teaching career, a career in law enforcement, a career in health, a lot of things, and the issues that affect a person's life in the same way are equally important parts of a person's life, and very often we do not talk at all. These include family formation, challenges faced by young couples when they are having children, but the issue of retirement is similar. In Hungary, in political public life, we hardly talk about how the state, society, can help older people to experience this change as easily as possible. I believe that education and culture could play a very important role in this too, which should also be one of the most important areas of socialisation in old age. Compared to this, the current system of adult education is not at all age-friendly, as they link adult education programmes to jobs in both structural and financial terms, and this is simply not what the older generation would need. They do not want to devote their time to the occupations now, which is why the participation of the 45-year-olds in adult education in Hungary is extremely low, because these adult education institutions hardly offer any training that is tailored to their needs. Older education itself was, by the way, a need on the side of the elderly, so that is how this system was developed, and the science of it was brought to life by this need. However, Hungary is in its infancy in this regard. I need to highlight two areas, two important elements for the education of the elderly, which could be the future if these areas were developed by the current government in the next period. One is the question of using the Internet. Under the current social framework, I may not have to explain why it is so important that we speak the same language, that we can connect to the same tools, that we can connect with the same tools, that we are old and young, and that generational gap that has developed, and that even because of Internet usage patterns we can deepen society, that we can eliminate or at least reduce. That is why it is necessary to involve as many older people as possible in Internet use and such training. Unfortunately, today only 6 percent of the elderly in Hungary claim to be regular Internet users. Another issue that is truly XXI. It offers solutions of the century, training universities. In Hungary, so-called older universities operate at ELTE, University of Debrecen, Győr and Nyíregyháza within the framework of universities. These could be an extremely good socialisation space for the elderly, and they could also give audience-building strength, because in old age we need to talk not only about health, but also about participation, community creation and security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-239	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Gergely Farkas, Group Director, has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group: instead of words, pensioners need action, we, young people, help the elderly everyday life. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-240	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, October 1 is the World Older People's Day, on the occasion of which let me welcome the older generation in my speech. I do this as a young man and as a leader of a young community. As head of the community of the Jobbik Youth Group, we are talking about an organization that has helped the elderly not only in words but also in actions on a number of occasions, and I would like to give some examples of this in my speech today. I think it is important to look at what we are doing here, what we have done for the elderly, how the interest of the elderly is expressed. It is only important because, unfortunately, Fidesz is trying to distort Jobbik's position on the elderly by means of some kind of mean enough means, which is why we consider it important to point out instead how we have proved the opposite of what Fidesz is trying to say about us in recent years. In addition to representing young people, Jobbik's Youth Group places particular emphasis on volunteering and social work for older people. I think that this is a unique and beautiful sense of mission and task, because we regard the elderly as walking ahead and as an example for young people with their lives and wisdom. While the elderly are wisdom and life experience, we young people are the embodiments of determination and momentum. And the two are nicely complementary. Ladies and gentlemen, A society, you might say, can measure the nature of civilization by how it treats the elderly, by what place it gives them in public life. Bearing in mind and feeling the truth of this thought of Pope Benedict, Jobbik and Jobbik Youth also pay particular attention to the elderly. We are responsible for our parents, grandparents, all those who are ahead of us at their age, for the young. With this responsibility, Jobbik IT, as one of Hungary's strongest political youth organisations, organises a number of programmes and actions to help express our appreciation for the elderly. The Jobbik Youth Department has conducted several campaigns, such as the "Message to the Pleasant," this was the title of our campaign, which was intended to address this age group, setting out the programme points that Jobbik would benefit them, because we would also try to help their lives, and in addition to these programme points, pensioners will be given a prominent role. At the same time, we wanted to express concern and responsibility for this age group in this publication, which was very successful. For years, we have been organizing charitable actions for the elderly before Christmas, helping those who have difficulty with, for example, winter heating or even just shopping or simply being lonely and abandoned. In the framework of the action "The Clean Heart" we organized collections for those in need on several occasions, thus improving their lives and contributing to the worthy celebration of Christmas. We had another operation on the, put a smile on the faces! Our campaign, which aims to strengthen social responsibility. Within the framework of the project, we visited the nursing home or even children's and disabled homes, and made small shows to the residents, bringing a smile to their faces, helping them to break out of the apathy, and we were very pleased to see this. [[18.20]] The annual event programme of the Jobbik Youth Group has been a permanent part of the week of volunteering for many years, which took place recently this year. The aim of this week is not only to help, but also to raise awareness of the importance and beauty of voluntary work. In this way, we have also tried to help the elderly throughout the country through a number of charitable, social assistance activities, such as visiting the nursing home, reading and talking. I was in one of these, and it was very touching to be involved in this, and to help the elderly, or to see just how happy they can be that some young people or even more of us were, we went to them, we talked to them, we read to them, and we really helped them a lot, you could say, not too exciting from everyday life to get a little rip off, and they got new impulses from us. It felt really good going through all this. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have always been of the opinion that instead of words, we should bear witness to action, and that is how assistance becomes concrete. And the facts are stubborn. That is why I ask my fellow pro-government Members not to put things in the mouth of Jobbik's leaders, the politicians of Jobbik, which are unreal, but to see these actions. I think the elderly can see it, and they're grateful for it. I trust that their behaviour, as shown so far, will also change on behalf of our pro-government fellow politicians, and that we can work together to help young people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In place of words, pensioners need action, helping to protect the health of the elderly and to play sports. Mr Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In an ideal world, politics, politicians, can have two main goals: ensuring prosperity and well-being. Hungary's political leadership is very behind in both areas. Neither higher income nor higher pensions have been an explicit goal for the governments of the last 27 years. Prosperity has not been achieved. The other main goal, well-being, which means that my existence is fine, I feel fulfilled, I feel happy, I am fine, I am healthy, it cannot be realized until we do for it. This is what I would like to talk about, what is missing from the lives of the elderly in this area, what is missing and why is missing in Hungary for well-being. In a Western European country, it is a natural sight in a fitness centre, a sports centre, when old and healthy young people are in the majority. For us, even the sight is special. There has not been a single step since the change of regime in the direction of the Hungarian people reaching retirement age both spiritually and physically. The everyday struggle, in many cases the lack of prospects, consumes Hungarian society. In situations like these, survival is the goal, not the fulfillment of life, and as we approach retirement, we should be as fit and healthy as we were in our 30s and 40s. Current and future generations of older people who retain their activity represent valuable and in many respects undiscovered resources for the economy and society. One of the main slogans of Jobbik's program since 2010 is the sound soul saying, as it is essential to maintain activity in order to maintain health. Maintaining activity does not only mean working and remaining in employment. Active ageing is the WHO's 2002 resolution. Active ageing aims at maintaining health, ensuring social participation and security, maintaining the independence and independence of older people. It prioritizes a healthy lifestyle, which leads to an improvement in quality of life. However, a healthy lifestyle is much easier to maintain by means of sport. It seems to me that there has been no complex ageing strategy since 2009. However, the problem is that the problems that were set out in the document eight years ago are still part of our lives to this day. I'd like to shed some light on some of these things. After the success of the Masters World Swimming Championship, we cannot ignore the fact that only a small part of the Seniors' Sports Federations organizes competitions. Senior athletes are at all, but even clubs and their sports associations have little or no access to state resources. All of this is under a government that is pouring money into a sports organization run by some friends, oligarchs, or politicians. Don't you realize how much social tension you're causing? Can't you see that sports centers exist in vain, not to mention football courts, these facilities aren't used by our old, old-age compatriots? I would particularly like to address the issue of sports facilities. It has been said a thousand times in the Orbán government argument system that stadiums are built for billions because it is the best investment in health. It is cheaper to invest money in a healthy lifestyle than it will later be for healing. But I ask you, do you see 50s, 60s, 70s-class crowds playing on football courts? Do you see the same age groups massed in swimming pools, sports halls, fitness centers? Why not? Because the person who lives in reality doesn't think they can pay for thousands of HUF tickets on an occasional basis in a sports facility. In Sweden, already in the early eighties, it was recognised that the state was worth spending money on prevention and health-preservation programmes. Over the last decade and a half, there has been a steep increase in the number of people who move regularly in Sweden, so there would be good examples in front of us. In Jobbik's view, it is necessary to give young people the opportunity to live a full life when they are retired. We consider it essential to implement: much more serious support for recreational sports, which also includes the sport of young people; the launch of advertising campaigns to promote healthy lifestyles towards older age groups; the recasting and development of a system of support for disease prevention, rehabilitation and health development senior sports programmes; the development of a much greater support for the access of young people to sports facilities; and the improvement of accessibility of well-equipped runways, bike roads, well-equipped swimming pools, sports halls, tennis courts that are also prepared for the needs of older people; the development of public-supported clubs accessible to all; parks, outdoor community spaces, the movement of older people, and the availability of tools to improve their strength. Hungarian sports management is infinitely results-oriented. The sport of the young will not serve with Olympic medals, but it can provide an excellent example for all Hungarians of how to live our lives in health and well-being. From 2018, the Jobbik government will work to achieve both prosperity and well-being. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-02-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group: instead of words, pensioners need action and help to ensure the safety of the elderly. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, remembering the World Day of the Elders, bowing to our young countrymen, honoring their work, Jobbik has tried to thematicate this parliamentary day, and we have raised a number of problems in our speeches, interpellations, immediate questions, and now after the agenda that are highly concerned with this social group. We talked about their livelihoods, how to make it better, we talked about the shameful health situation that hits them more, we talked about how to increase the dignity of our elderly compatriots by providing them with a more active role in society, whether in sports or in further education or in adult education. There was one thing they didn't say about their safety. It would be very important to guarantee the safety of the young Hungarian people after a worked life in this country in a physical sense. What do I mean? Indeed, in areas left by the state, many settlements are terrified in their small houses, behind the windows of old people who have worked an entire life with honor, and it may very well be that a very ugly crime will end this life. Their lives, their daily lives are often about fear, about the fact that there is no public security in Hungary after two weeks. It is almost three years since I first asked how many victims in Hungary are still claimed by old wolves and jackals in human skin. [[18.30]] The fact is that since then, this type of crime has claimed a lot of victims in Hungary. I could mention some of my own petriots, former horrific cases in Somogy County, when an old man was beaten to death on his own turf in 2011. In 2012, after 700 forints were taken from her, an elderly woman was raped in Böhönye, who was over 80 years old. In 2014, a fanatical and probably self-centered son of a bitch who thought he was the king of life took the life of a woman over 70 by beating him to death, and these horrifying examples could be mentioned from other parts of the country. I would mention Gadna, where an 88 - year - old woman was raped, murdered with unbelievable cruel animal brutality. I could mention Ozd's Hetes colony, where three young offenders, two 14-year-olds and one 11-year-olds killed the last Hungarian resident, an elderly woman in her 90s. I could mention Lenti-Mumor, where the old Hungarian lady was attacked with a meat-cutting axe, or I could mention the horrific incident in Göncruszka. The victim of the attack there was also an old lady who died in this attack. It is important to know that 700,000 old people live alone in Hungary, alone. Over the age of 70, this rate is 56 percent. It's a lot of old women. In the foregoing, we outlined that men die very early, and the widow's mate is often a woman. They're in much greater danger. We are looking for an answer here, and it would have been very good if you had waited for this noticeable time for your knives, say, a representative of the government, and tried to highlight some positive vision of how you would want to guarantee the safety of our young countrymen, for example, why only 5,000 alarm bracelets are distributed in Hungary, why not multiply this number. Or they could have answered why, contrary to Jobbik's proposal, the annual support of the National Citizens' Association was not increased from 1 billion to 2 billion forints, as their role would be enormous in protecting these settlements and the elderly living and abandoned there. Jobbik wants it not to become the free hunting ground of these undomestible herders after the night, where they hunt their lives with honor to old people as they wish, with the morality of some paleolite stone age, merely as prey on these unfortunate old people. We wanted to give you an answer, and believe me, Jobbik will give you an effective answer after 2018. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-02-245	Thank you, Congressman. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If there is work, there is everything: Nagykunsági körkép az Jobbik csoportlából György Lukács has also applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-02-246	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! I thought it was worthwhile to face reality from time to time and take a snapshot of certain areas of the country, especially when we talk about the situation of employment, employment opportunities and unemployment in one area. Well, this is the area I was curious about, the Great Kunsa, because I live there, I was born there, and I was raised there, and I keep trying to follow the development possibilities of the region. In this snapshot, we must first see what our expectations are, i.e. at all, as the President said in this presentation, if there is work, there is everything - what does this accomplish? If there is work, what quality and type of work is there, or is there any such work? On the one hand, when I looked at the data, I wondered what job-creating developments had been made in the region and what unemployment, job-seeking statistics the region itself had. Unfortunately, I saw very sad facts in both of them, very sad figures. It is certain that we must face the reality shown by the National Employment Service data. I'd just like to quote a few numbers here. Those who live locally may not have to say that, for they feel and perceive this every day in their own environment, among their neighbors, in their children's job opportunities and prospects for life. For example - and we can say the settlements in alphabetical order - the national average in Abadszalók, a former tourist settlement, has more than twice the unemployment rate, and it has unfortunately not changed much compared to what was registered in 2012. In essence, the public works programme was the only one in which it was able to achieve a partial reduction, but due to the constant wave of the public works programme, high levels of unemployment were recurring. Weapon is the same thing, it was only worse that there was a constant trend, a growth trend in the settlement, so the number of relative job seekers is increasing. For example, Karcagon, a flagship, is one and a half times the national average of job seekers. And we can give such deterrent examples as the Kunmadaras settlement, which I mentioned earlier in the walls of the House, where people look forward to the realisation of the prison; it is no accident that there is 14.8 percent unemployment in the settlement itself. However, there are settlements in a worse situation, perhaps the settlement of Tiszabő and Tiszabura, which represents the two worst unemployment rates in the country. One has 21 percent unemployment and the other has nearly 26 percent unemployment. We do not need to live locally to see that these life prospects, i.e. when a quarter of the settlement is not in a visible location, do not even have the opportunity to find a place to work in public work, because they cannot get in there, so what opportunities these settlements have for survival and development. Summarizing the data of the National Employment Service, it can be seen that in this area, in the Nagykunság and in the area of the Tisza villages, there is a medium-sized city-sized total number of unemployed jobseekers, 5792. And if you look at the trends, as I have said, in some cases, the final number of indicators has not changed since 2012, in addition to the new recruitment of the public work programme, the final number of indicators has not changed, and they are all in the same mill, and unemployment is always returning to the same level, which is also because I think that the villages along the Tisza region are being avoided by the opportunities that have been given in other regions. From the past period, I have taken stock of the investments that have been made, and, unfortunately, I have to say, not even 10 percent of them were able to create meaningful jobs and real jobs. All other investments that have been made have essentially brought no added value in terms of jobs. Therefore Jobbik would like to see villages along the Great Community and Tisza, where there are real real jobs; in villages it is possible not to go abroad; where all residents, young and older, can thrive in their homeland, and work for a salary worth staying at home, and it is worth choosing a much cheaper rural life, and staying in rural areas with all its beauty. Thus Jobbik wants improvements and will support improvements that fit into future plans and life prospects that fit well into the place, support and provide opportunities for everyone in the Great Community and in the villages along the Tisza region to thrive in their homeland and reduce unemployment in part and in substance. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-02-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your day's work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a restful, good, good night, a happy return home. [[Meeting ended at 6:39 p.m.]]
