u2017-05-29-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 30th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, We were shocked to learn of new acts of terror that demanded serious sacrifices. In Manchester, 22 innocent people were killed and more than 50 injured. The target was Europe's youth this time. We cannot rest until we overcome terror and until we create a safe Europe for our children. Hungary does not back down, it is committed to the eradication of terrorism. The whole country sympathizes with parents, relatives, and the people of the United Kingdom. Dear House, I am also fulfilling my sad duty to inform you that István Pintér died in the age of 87. From 1990 to 1992 István Pintér was a member of the first freely elected Parliament from 1992 to 1994. He got his credentials from the FKGP Csongrád county list. Since 1991 he worked as Vice-President of the Parliament's Environment Committee and was a member of the Standing Committee on Budget, Taxation and Finance. In addition to his public career, he worked in agriculture for more than 50 years. I ask the Honourable Parliament to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member and the victims of Manchester. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear House, Katalin Novák, Minister of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, applied for a speech today on behalf of the government with the title "The Year of Families" 2018. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2017-05-29-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. For our government, family comes first. When we take care of Hungarian families, we take care of our future. The last week was particularly important about Hungarian families: Budapest could have been the capital of families last week, as we held the Budapest Summit of Families in Budapest. Last week, we celebrated Hungarian families for four days. The Family Budapest Summit was held between 25 and 28 May, with guests from more than 50 countries arriving here, and I can say that this series of programs was very good. We closed this large series of events yesterday, on children's day, with a large family festival, where thousands of people were together on Andrássy Road. We have been able to explore many exciting issues, to discuss them during the conference, and the Prime Minister was there, and we have been honored by very high-ranking guests, whether from scientific life, church life, civil life or the world of politics. I think we have been able to show them the Hungarian model that says that the solution to demographic problems for us is not in mass resettlement, not in support of illegal immigration, but in support of Hungarian families, in support of Hungarian families. We want to rely on our internal resources, not to bring external resources to Hungary in bulk. Let us also talk about the future. The Prime Minister announced on Thursday that 2018 will be the year of families in Hungary. What does it mean that 2018 will be the year of families? Since 2010, we have been focusing on families, with every decision we make in mind the interests of Hungarian families. This is how we have transformed our tax system, which is what we take into account in our infrastructure developments, which is what we are considering when we decide on labour market issues. Our priority is to support Hungarian families. If we want to express this in money, and this is important, because the Parliament is discussing the 2018 budget, then we see that we are investing in support of families at an international level, among the developed countries, with a high priority - this means that we are approaching 5 percent of GDP. In comparison, this is 2,55% of the OECD average. Our aim is to achieve family support in excess of 5 per cent of GDP in a few years; next year this means nearly HUF 2000 billion. And what news have we announced for the coming year? The fact that 2018 will be the year of families also means that we support Hungarian families with new measures and new opportunities. We also think of those who moan with the burden of debt. We know that we have a serious legacy when Hungarian families were chased into a debt trap, a currency loan trap during left-wing governance, now we want to ease this difficult inheritance with another opportunity for Hungarian families by releasing HUF 1-1 million from the mortgage by becoming a large family, i.e. the third, fourth, fifth or sixth child, and so on, by reducing the mortgage debt of families by HUF 1-1 million. We also think of those who have used financial help for their studies: this is what suspension and remission of student loans is all about. This means that in families where the mother has student loans, in the third month of pregnancy with the first child, we suspend the repayment, with the second child, we release half of the credit debt, and in the third month when the third child is born, we release the entire credit debt to the pregnancy. [[13.10]] It also supports young people to double the length of the diplomat, giving an average of 1.2 million HUF to the families concerned. We could also call the cord programme the two measures by which we help families who do not have children within the administrative borders of Hungary, as we also make the maternity allowance available to them and extend the baby bond to these children. For us, every born Hungarian child, every born Hungarian life is a treasure, and we would also like to acknowledge it with these measures. I hope that by declaring 2018 a year of families and taking these new measures, more people in Hungary will feel that we are in favour of Hungarian families, we have supported them so far. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And we'll stand by them in the future, that's what you can count on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-2	Ladies and gentlemen, The factions can respond within a two-minute time frame. I give the floor first to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik supports and has supported every measure that helps Hungarian families and helps their lives, their child rearing work. If we come to government, every measure that has helped the families, we intend to take it further and keep it. At the same time, we have some professional comments on what has been said, and we would like to present this in the debate on the relevant legislative proposals. The demographic issue is the biggest problem in Hungary. It is not just one of the biggest problems, but the biggest problem. The next decades of Hungary are fundamentally defined by how we relate to the unborn children and families. Therefore, I would like to draw up further measures and proposals, which Jobbik has been saying for years, but so far it has not been possible to draw the attention of the government to this. On the one hand, unlike the pension system, the family support system is not a follow-up system in Hungary. So after you introduced the family tax relief, whether it's the value of the child or the child, since then, the value of these has not changed in the last seven or six years. [[Lajos Kósa: Neither is inflation.]] You are proud that the pension system is inflation-seeking, the family support system is not. On the other hand, families raising children would be supported exclusively by the measure of reducing to a minimum the VAT on articles needed to raise children. We believe that this would also give a long - term, predictable vision to families who have children and would provide meaningful help in raising them. Madam State Secretary also mentioned the issue of emigration. A rental housing programme and its preferential loan support would also provide an opportunity for young people seeking to emigrate. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Which would make it possible for them to get along at home. In eight years, 90,000 children were born abroad as Hungarians - let's not let go of their hands and bring them back to Hungary! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-4	The word now belongs to Bernadette Wind, the leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If I look at today's KSH data, I see that the birth rate is falling again in Hungary, practically not even reaching the level of 2009. So if increasing birth numbers is the government's goal, then you're doing something wrong, something's not working in the government's family policy. What is growing is the number of Hungarian children born abroad. 78,000 Hungarian babies were born abroad in the last seven years, while the number of Hungarian babies born abroad doubled compared to 2011. This means, by the way, that we have lost a full year's live birth by letting these families go. Dear Secretary of State, I think that should be the case, not that they host such bizarre conferences in Budapest. I'm sorry you didn't quote some of the sentences you said there. I'd rather not do it in the two minutes that I have here. The way I see it, the government of Fidesz is that there really are families who benefit. There's the Ripper family or Andy Vajna's family, but even Mr. Rogán's family will benefit very much. [[Noise, uproar in the ranks of the governing parties.]] But what, please, with the broad masses of families? Who's in charge of those, Madam Secretary? Because Fidesz gives a lot to a few people, but LMP's position is that every family matters. With the CSOK, you were able to make it easier for a few tens of thousands of families; with our social housing program, which we would start with from 50 billion, we would give the opportunity for a wide crowd of families and young people to have a place to bring that baby home from the hospital when she was born. And there are the problems of living wages. Having a child is not a one-time decision, it does not last as long as a child is born, but we need to be able to raise it. When will there be good wages in this country? Dear Secretary of State, One in five families is now a single parent family in Hungary. Why did they let go of the hands of these families? [[János Halász: You're talking nonsense.]] I had a hard time fighting to get ahead in the cradle waiting room, but right now these families get 1500 HUF more in the family allowance than others, and the government's policy stops here. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] LMP wants to help these families, too, with a program that you are not alone. Thank you.
u2017-05-29-6	I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It is clear that 2018 will be the year of the election, not the year of the families. But I'd like to tell you that the year of the Orbán government's fall will also be. [[Deficiencies, upsurges, interrogations in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] It would have been good to have been dealt with in the last seven years and supported equally all children in education, health care and social care. 47,000 children fell out of the education system because the school obligation was delivered from 18 to 16 years. You have made child labor legal in Hungary today. Nearly 4-5 thousand children can work in Hungary today for poverty reasons. You did this to the Hungarian children. I don't know if while the secretary of state was very happy to conference in Budapest, she noticed that the needy people were cooking again in Budapest on child's day. Nearly 800 people stood in line again, including over 100 children, and on Facebook we see Andy Vajna's wife eating gold. Can you imagine the difference, Madam Secretary? ! You have made a privileged layer very rich, while children and children stand in line for a bowl of hot food! And then they come into Parliament and smile and say that 2018 will be the year of families. Madam Secretary! Stop threatening us! They've had eight years to clean up this country. They didn't fix it. At the conference, Madam Secretary of State pointed out that Europe will be destroyed by childless European leaders. [[13.20]] Do you know who is ruining Hungary and Europe today? Politicians like Viktor Orbán and his government. These politicians are ruining it. You know why? Because no one can ever interfere in a man's life with why he didn't have a child. Because, you know, Madam Secretary, there are many reasons in Hungary for not having a family: for reasons of poverty and infertility. Madam Secretary, that was very nasty of you this weekend.
u2017-05-29-8	Next up is Fidesz's representative, Gabriella Selmeczi.
u2017-05-29-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We would like to thank the Government and the Minister of Human Resources, Ministry, for the weekend conference and for their participation. Ladies and gentlemen, There are forces that attack families, the most important unit of society. There have been reports that certain forces are listing organizations that are willing to support families. We say that thinking in a family, living in a family is a natural thing, and it is a matter for us politicians to support. We understand why these forces are attacking the family: because when it comes to our children, our loved ones, our parents, we are able to do anything for them. So it's an incredibly powerful force. So the Orbán government and Fidesz protect and support families. We trust each other and do so with strong faith. There is a serious threat to us, whether it is the migration that they want to trigger demographic problems, or whether they want to destroy family ties and make almost ridiculous those who think in families. Let them react to the LMP. It's not true, I could say it's a lie, that single - parent families don't get support. They receive the same support as families with two parents. They also receive tax relief and even receive special support. By the way, the MSZP, the socialists are now attacking the family, just like they used to, when they took away the tax relief, they reduced the risk from three to two years. And how do I respond to the MSZP: see how much this government has done for free catering? From here I send a message to opposition politicians, whether MSZP, Jobbik, LMP, DK, PM, Together, liberals or who knows who else: the protection of our family, the protection of our loved ones, the protection of Hungary is the most important. The natural instinct and belief to protect our loved ones and protect Hungary [[A voice from MSZP: Time!]] He will always be stronger than Judas's money. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-10	I'm gonna ask the MSZP representatives to stop yelling at me, if I may, because I've got nothing else. To be precise, I've calmed down everyone, but I haven't stopped talking to anyone who's out of time. Be modest! Next up is Rose Hoffmann. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The Christian Democratic People's Party welcomes, follows, supports and initiates the government's family policy measures with great sympathy and agreement. We can all be proud of the results achieved, including - to mention something of a material nature - to spend approximately 5 percent of our GDP on family policy. There is no such country in Europe. We also agree, and we have supported and supported the demographic issue from the outset, not by resettlement, not by migration, but by good family policy. The Christian Democratic People's Party, of course, knows, feels and follows the fact that for thousands of years it has been the two - parent family that we consider ideal. At the same time, the government has done the right thing by adding to its family policy measures, watching and giving special support to disabled people and sick children in addition to single - parent families. So it is only with a positive view of family policy who is paying attention to what was here, say, ten or twenty years ago, and where we are today. But let me also say a few words about the child, the meaning of the family, the pledge of the future, especially as we celebrated yesterday's children's day. The kids are watching us. I refer here to the title of Vittorio De Sica's film in the '40s. The point of this is that the child hears and understands everything, his sense of justice is advanced, he knows who's telling the truth, he knows who's lying, he understands metacommunication, and he's following us. And if we don't communicate in a way that serves his development, then we destroy the child's spiritual development, and we can't do that, politicians. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-12	Dear House, On behalf of Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, asked for a pre-meeting speech:. Seven years wasted - Let's do justice! It's an address. Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2017-05-29-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, János Lázár promised that the family support system would be adapted and broadened, raising the family allowance, which has remained unchanged since 2008. Turns out none of this is true. From the budget submitted, we can see that not only the family allowance, but also the child, the child and the maternity allowance will not change next year. It's a real family-friendly government. Since then, Viktor Orbán has made new old promises, which have been announced several times. He said they're gonna further increase the tax relief for two kids. It's just, you know, that was promised during the 2014 elections. Finally, the increase was only started from 2016, but it also took four years to make an announcement every year. Orbán said nothing about hundreds of thousands of children whose parents are partially or completely unable to avail themselves of tax relief, which ultimately punishes children by the state. He hasn't said a thing about the amount of benefits that you've had for nine years. They announced that they would allow your diplomat to receive the rightholder until the age of two. Just recently, it was discovered that 1 percent of the children who were entitled to extras have used it, so they're promising something big to only a few hundred people right now. Another discount for large families to repay their housing loans for the third, fourth, and fifth children is to write 1 to 1 million out of the mortgage. It's like these children are just born! In the meantime, nearly half a million families were deprived of their housing support. Hundreds of thousands of families are threatened by eviction in Hungary today, while you are promising again. Another idea cement: one who gives enough in accordance with Christian values will also get away with student loans. In Hungary, women are needed to give birth and give birth to the world. They're like breeding animals! That is the true Christian thinking! Orbán did not mention the problem of infertility, which affects every fifth party in Hungary; who would want to have children, but cannot do it for health reasons, or for social reasons. Today, again, a great promise was made, just as Gábor Zombor, Secretary of State, two years ago, and it didn't turn out to be anything. For Viktor Orbán does not say a word about the millions who have already been born, but are living in poverty, hopelessness, children, families without children, hundreds of thousands of single parents, hundreds of thousands of families living on the brink of eviction, millions of Hungarians. Orbán also announced that a family policy research institute would be set up. Does the Prime Minister not know that, from 1 January 1968 to this day, the Institute for Population Research exists? Or does the Prime Minister not know that until last autumn there was an Institute for Family, Youth and Population Policy, which you have abolished with a government resolution? Of course, they're lying again. Today, Mihály Varga acknowledged that Viktor Orbán's announced actions are not worth a naughty penny in the budget. But speaking of populationization, Viktor Orbán also said that there is a need for a population turn, that as many children as possible should be born, because if there is a child, there is a future. The context is reversed: if there is a future, then there is a child. Nobody wants to have a baby for nothing. How many years have they been talking about a population turnaround? In 2008 there were 99 living births for a thousand people, and in 2016 there were 93 births. So nothing improved, and they didn't do anything. But of course, we know that it really depends on many things how many children are born. For example, how many women of childbearing age live in the country. Unfortunately, this number will not only be reduced because of the declining population, but also because a significant proportion of these women emigrated, live elsewhere, have their child elsewhere, have their future not in Hungary. But it's not just women. We are constantly hearing statements from pro-government politicians as if women were the only ones to make that few children are born. No, dear gentlemen. Your manifestations, your statements and your politics are the most damaging thing on this subject. People want to have children, but this requires income and financial security. Compared to this, there is no equality, legal certainty, employment and social security for women in Hungary today. You know what? It's all fucking bullshit. So, there's a lot of chaos in your head. The government expects an increase in GDP of 4.3 per cent, but there will be less welfare expenditure next year. In 2018, we will do justice for Hungarian families, for our children, for the future of Hungarian people. Because you have taken away not only the future of our children, but also the present, Madam Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-29-14	I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Novák. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I had to check for a moment to identify the representative of a good party, to see if the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party had spoken. Are you sure? This is the party that took a month's pension from the elderly [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true.]] from civil servants... [[Constant intervention in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-29-16	Would you be quiet, please? Please be quiet.
u2017-05-29-17	.......................................................................................................................................... supported every tax increase so far, voted in favour of raising personal income tax, raising VAT on food, promoting the abolition of family tax incentives [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: For it is unjust.]] , stopped the home creation programme, supported the introduction of visitation fees, hospital daily allowances, tuition fees. They did not support the reduction of the overhead and even increased the burden. They were there when the family allowance, the child, the gyed, the medical aids were reduced, the family allowance and the pension were taxed, the property tax was introduced. All tax and contribution increases affecting Hungarian businesses have been voted in favour. And he did not protest when money was taken from healthcare, education, Hungarian farmers and Hungarian families. [[13.30]] Congresswoman! Look at you. Look at the credibility you have when you talk about such matters. After all, you have taken me away from the Hungarian families during your government, and you have given me nothing more. [[Continued high noise, interruptions in the MSZP fraction.]] It is important for people to have a predictable, stable vision. When they decide to have children, they do not make decisions for one day, they do not make decisions for a year, not for four years, not for eight years, they make decisions for a lifetime. In such cases, it is important that family policy is predictable and stable. You are threatening the electorate now that, when you come to government, you will reform the system of family tax relief and abolish the home creation programme. This is what creates uncertainty, this type of threat, this type of negative promise. I think it's really hard to do more than that to start a family, to have children. The important thing is that the future is predictable, stable, so that people can plan for what. That's why we returned the home creation program. You're suggesting what kind of support we're giving to the families. Madam Congresswoman, in 2010, support for families was not worth HUF 1000 billion in Hungary. In 2018, in the budget currently in front of this House, the same appropriation is nearly HUF 2000 billion. We have doubled the budget for support for families. The lady, who has just spoken, spoke about how much we are spending on children's meals. I am sure you know how much this amount was in 2010: HUF 29 billion. Do you know how much this will be in 2018? 80 billion forints. That's how much more we sacrifice for the children's food. [[Big noise, continuous interruptions in the MSZP fraction.]] For these reasons, no child can starve today in Hungary, not only do we support children's meals during the school year, but it is the responsibility of the local authorities to provide children's meals every school holiday and weekend. So I think if you were to look at the facts and not just talk into the air, you would know that nothing else has done more than this government to support the Hungarian families. So I'm asking you to look inside and see what happened in the eight years that you were able to govern between 2002 and 2010. Let me give you a figure: the number of marriages decreased by 23 percent over the eight years. This trend was reversed in 2010. Do you know how much the number of marriages has increased in the last six years? 50 percent. It's up one-and-a-half for a 23-percent drop in your time. What if it wasn't a time of pessimism, and it was a time of optimism? I think, Congresswoman, that instead of threatening the Hungarian families with what they will take away from them, if they keep painting an enemy image for the Hungarian families, they will paint a negative picture for them. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] I think they can only harm the Hungarian families who love the child. After all, I think that the most we do in Hungary is to represent what Hungarian reality is. [[Continuous intervention from the MSZP fraction. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian people are family-centric, Hungarian people love their children, Hungarian people want to take care of their future, so the important thing for Hungarian people is whether they will have a place to live, whether they will receive home-building support, whether they will have a job, because so far we have given them a job, and what support they will receive in order to raise their children. This tax system best supports the ability of workers to raise children. Finally, I would like to ask you, Madam Member, why the five-party agreement, the statement that a civil society organisation has initiated to give birth to the desired children, has been kicked off by the MSZP. [[There's always a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The MSZP is the only party that can no longer support this declaration. So I guess when you're talking about supporting families, look inside. And it is better to draw everyone's attention to the fact that the real threat to Hungarian families is precisely the left. Thank you for listening. [[Long-lasting, big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-18	Ladies and gentlemen, I have allowed the wishes of my fellow members of the Government to unfold in order to find the right calm words to express my opinion that what the MSZP is doing in this Parliament week after week may have something to do with the Bolshevik roots, but nothing to do with parliamentarianism. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] We thought in 1990 that a little time would pass before they got used to the real atmosphere of parliamentarianism, but perhaps 27 years after the change of regime, it would be appropriate not only to read the house rules and at least to remember the important parts of the house, but also to respect the debate partner so much that when he has the word and not you, they would not yell. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] Because this isn't the pub. This isn't the pub! From a more intelligent football fan community, you can hear more intelligent opinions than what you're yelling at. If you'll excuse me, please, this isn't the pub. You like to know? ! It's not the street, it's the Hungarian Parliament. Everyone has the legal opportunity to tell me. [[To Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] You've got it, too. You've got to tell me yourself. At least until that right is revoked. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] By the house rules, of course. So, if you'll mind taking your time in the time frame available to you. I think I can do it. [[Delightfulness and great applause in the pro-government benches.]] Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, leader of the LMP Group, you are not alone! Please state your title, provided that your opposition fellow Members allow it. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, What Hungarian women can expect from Fidesz-KDNP, Szilárd Németh said very succinctly last week. Mr Orbán has appointed a 13-year plan for Hungarian women. He gave us the task of having an average of 2.1 children by 2030 instead of the current 1.4. And in order for everyone to understand the Prime Minister's words, Szilárd Németh explained, and I quote, the Prime Minister made it clear that by 2030 an increase would have to be made. It is very simple to explain this: the one who has the world is the one who has the world., on the one hand, I would like to wish Szilárd Németh a good job for the world to be full, because women and families do not carry out government orders when they have children, but make their own decisions, which the government must support. That's how it works, it's the right style, not the wrong way. So since we have been given our position here in opposition, I would very much like for Szilárd Németh to consider what he is talking about, because these depths of Ceauşescu, which we are starting to hit in Hungary in 2017, I think are inappropriate and we do not want to hear this style, even if my fellow Member Gulyás does not like it. We're not here to fill the world! Unfortunately, this very bizarre family conference last week has also shown that the government has simply, Madam Secretary of State, misplaced the house. For a long time there has been a complete consensus on how to achieve a demographic change in Hungary. The fact that you have failed to produce anything on this in the last seven years does not show that there is a problem with women, but that your family policy simply does not work, it does not work the way you want it to. Women around the world can have children if they feel that they can and can have jobs. [[13.40]] Take a look at yourselves, be kind, and think about it: for example, the measure that Fidesz-KDNP introduced in the Labour Code, and what is about the fact that parents with small children can be fired, the former immunity has been lost, it has helped or has made worse this situation. I think it is clear that it has deteriorated, and there has not been a government in Hungary in the last 27 years that has dealt with people's problems. Rather, we saw that they had stolen and lied, they always had the time, but to think about what the political implementation of the professional consensus was, you didn't have to deal with it. Looking around the Hungarian labour market, I see that it is still a disadvantage in this country to be a parent with small children. We see that there is no possibility of flexible work. The cradle space expansion programme did not go well, we see that Hungarian wages cannot be made a living, and as I said, with the CSOK they could reach a few tens of thousands of families, but this would not be necessary. Your philosophy is that they give a lot to a few, it simply doesn't work, it should support a wide range of families. And that is why I would like to say that there are also those who have been left out of the Prime Minister's great announcement, and I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Fidesz and the KDNP to the fact that we can have a better child if we feel that they care about us even if we are at a disadvantage. Single parenthood is not a chosen way of life, often with one, two, or even three children, mothers alone. Often mothers who have children with disabilities simply remain alone, because for some reason, a man decides to leave that relationship. And these families are present today as tolerated families in Hungary. It is difficult to argue with the numbers, they get 1500 HUF more in the family allowance, but when you look at the families of three children who are left alone, only one thousand more is given to the one who raises his child alone; while in this country, in every five families, the parent practically raises his child alone. And if you stop talking to my fellow Member Kósa about this important topic, you may finally understand that we are talking about over half a million children. And you should also understand that you have simply ignored single-parent families over the last seven years, and what I can tell you is that our philosophy is that all families and all children are equally important. I do not know what to make of my colleague Selmeczi's remark that you support single - parent families, since they have received a little more than two parents. With what? Family allowance? What about all the others? I would like to make it easier for you to govern, so we have created a complex package of proposals to which we have given the title "You are not alone!" It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. And you're not alone! We have put together a package of measures that you need to take in order to support single - parent families. We want the basic amount of the family allowance to increase by 30 percent, and every single parent family will receive HUF 20,000. We also want the alimony to be recovered, so to speak, in order in this country. On the one hand, it must be established on the basis of real income, be recovered more efficiently, the procedure should be accelerated and the advance alimony should be increased. In the past, there were up to 60,000 forints of this advance alimony, and from 2012 you made it a charity, and reduced the amount to 14 250 forints, which was made by Fidesz-KDNP. Why have you failed the single-parent families, Madam Secretary?
u2017-05-29-20	Madam Secretary again, please.
u2017-05-29-21	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Then let's go in a row. First of all, I think we should all be clear that the country is not in an easy situation in a truly demographic sense. This has not been the case since yesterday, it has not even started the day before yesterday, it has been going on for 35 years, since 1981 more people have died in Hungary every year than they have been born. That's right, it's a gift we live with, and we're trying to take action on. This is something that really affects the geopolitical weight of a country, its ability to influence it, and it is important to know how many Hungarian people there are in the world. I would not say that, in fact, I would ask for it on behalf of those who are having their child abroad, that we are giving up those who were not born in Hungary. Don't they count on us? Aren't they Hungarian children? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: For the government.]] Does not being born within the administrative boundaries of Hungary mean that person is not Hungarian? Should we give up that child? I don't think so. I believe that we should be just as proud of the child who is born outside the administrative borders of Hungary as he is within his administrative boundaries. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Very weak!]] So we support these, in all cases these children. And I have honored you by listening to your words, and I would be pleased if you would do the same for me. We also set an example for our children by how we behave in Parliament. I think in this respect, the opposition has passed a very poor exam, so I think you should be ashamed of yourselves. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] One thought about the conference: in one sense we are really going against mainstream, I can say this; in the sense that we do not see the solution to demographic problems in immigration. Indeed, many people say that a simple formula: if there are not enough children in Hungary, if there are not enough children in Hungary, then we simply have to install a lot of people from outside, we have solved Hungary's demographic problems. It could be a solution, and that's not what we choose. We say that we are relying on our internal resources, let us look at the reason why, dear Congresswoman, Hungarian children are not born in the number that young people want; what is the difference between what a young person wanted and what they finally took on, and what the obstacles are, and what we are trying to break down these obstacles. We were not in an easy position when we started in 2010, because at the time family support was completely destroyed, the family support system was actually in a very, very embryonic state. We had to build nicely from this, we had to build family-type taxation, we had to add our home creation program to this, we had to match it with tools that we could really show the Hungarian people that it is worth having a good child in Hungary, that if they started a family, that if they were to have children, they would receive support for this. We cannot take on all their burdens, the responsibility of having children will always be for the family, first for the parents, but what a state that a government can do will be done to support children. He mentioned labour market processes. You must know the figures: in terms of the labour market, we have not been doing so well in recent decades. Whether we look at employment or unemployment, whether we are looking at female employment, or we are looking at the indicators of female unemployment, but we could also talk about the figures for young people here, from which indicators have been extremely positive in all these respects. He mentioned the nursery constructions. I think there is still a need for crèches, too, but let's look at where we started again in 2010 and how much we have spent on nursery construction. We will spend a hundred billion HUF to create nursery and kindergarten seats. We have just announced another 10 billion HUF programme, which focuses specifically on the Central Hungary region. We have made the nursery system more flexible, we have changed the legislation to make it a duty for the municipalities to operate the nursery, we have created a new type of nursery. We have raised the salaries of daycare workers, both those with higher education and those with secondary education. We have made it easier for them to acquire higher education, so I believe that in terms of access to crèches, the government has not done as much as our government has. He talked about making a home. I would like to think of the nearly 50,000 families who have been able to get home only because of this home creation program. This, Congresswoman, represents 50,000 Hungarian families. It may not be enough for you, I believe that this 50,000 family is not little, in fact. Finally, about single - parent families, as I see you as some anointed representative of this group, even though there is a civil society organisation that specifically represents the interests of single parents. And since we are in constant cooperation here, we are in a strategic partnership with this organization, and we receive from them the proposals that could support single parents, which is why we have accepted that they are preferred to take up in daycare. Think, Congresswoman, that the CSOK can be used by a single-parent family as well as where two raise children. Not only do we not exclude these families, but we strongly support them. We have just announced a holiday opportunity for them under the Elizabeth Programme, which has never been done before. So I think that you should also look at the realities and look at what has happened in the last seven years and make your judgment based on them. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-22	On behalf of Jobbik, Mr.István Apáti is next: How long will they run amok? A title for your comments before the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-23	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is unprecedented corruption in this country, and it would be good to put an end to this rampage of corruption. I know this is when we get the answers that if we're aware of a crime, we should file a report. We do these things, we've done them hundreds of times, but practically every single case has been laid. As long as the Attorney General's name is Peter Polt, unfortunately, there is no particular concern for those responsible. On the other hand, please note that we are Members of Parliament, not police, not prosecutors, not investigators and not intelligence, which is why our assets are limited. But they also say that the king is good, but he has bad advisors, and the Prime Minister doesn't know anything; if he knew what was going on behind his back, he would certainly do something about corruption. Yes, but you can't really decide what's worse or what's better: if the Prime Minister knows about it or if he doesn't know. If he knows about it, the problem is if he doesn't know about it, it's even worse. So probably, the truth is that he knows exactly what's real, it's just that it's in his best interest to run and maintain this system. [[13.50]] After all, we see that, for example, the close relatives of the company involved in transport or mining activities, related to the family circle, are enriched by HUF 2-3 billion per year, and this is not the problem in itself, my fellow Members, but the fact that this does not come from market-based orders, these business or commission contracts are almost exclusively linked to the use of public and EU funds. Then, if we look at the teller, the collector, Lurch Mészáros, then his 100 billionaires under one year become clear to us what the real purpose of the third Orbán government is. My honourable fellow Members, the Prime Minister is not only the most influential, but also the richest man in the country, and if Lőrinc Mészáros gets so much money in the next year as in the last year, then he, or the Prime Minister, will probably be the richest man in Hungary. I think this is more than outrageous and life-threatening for the country. But let's see who he surrounds himself with. There is the Minister of Propaganda, Antal Rogán, whose name has already appeared in downtown real estate, in the Vizoviczki case, in the Portik case, in the opening of inner-city terraces, yet all cases have been delayed, limited, and invested in the main support of the Chief Prosecutor. In any case, we will closely monitor the Minister's view and walk. And as for the lesser known figures, let's start right away with Congressman Mengyi Roland. He could have achieved a specialty in the history of corruption by creating the reverse 10 percent rule, since, by quoting it, instead of the usual level of tip, gift, bribe, he wanted to steal at least 90 percent, and leave 10 percent for the original purpose. This is what I said before, that this is nothing more than a real specialty, a true unical rule, the reverse 10 percent rule, when 10 percent remain for the original purpose. But then we can also welcome Congressman György Simonka, who is being prosecuted for legitimate suspicions of fiscal fraud in relation to companies or persons connected with personal or corporate lines, but who will receive HUF 450 million of EU funds from these companies within a very short period of time. So, indeed, from the year of the last great reaper, it looks like he doesn't want to miss it either. And then there's Szilárd Németh, the overhead Rambo, who, in accordance with his good habits or bad habits, who he doesn't like, communicates it or Nazis it. Csepelen wrestling hall is built from 2 billion forints. This alone would not necessarily be such a big problem, otherwise, if these resources of the magnitude of 2000 million were not to migrate to the private foundation it had created in March. Last but not least, I would like to pay tribute to our fellow Member, Flórian Farkas, who is exceptionally present in the Chamber, who cannot account for HUF 1300 million. He is also protected by the family, and he has not been allowed to fail, and there is one reason for this, my honourable fellow Members: on the one hand, that the 1.3 billion has been replaced with extraordinary government support, with which he cannot account for it, and that the reward has been completed, and that an election agreement has been concluded with him in the spirit of electoral racism, because Fidesz.KDNP also needs the votes of the unfortunately under-educated Gypsy in the following elections. This is true racism, fellow Members, because it is not the racist who speaks openly and honestly about the problems of Hungarian-Gypsy living together, but the one who considers Gypsy people only important until he buys their votes with cheap money, and he is responsible and you are responsible for this. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-24	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-05-29-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The reason why it is difficult to argue corruption with a party whose leader still has not cleared himself of tax evasion, and one of the Vice-Presidents has just been filed in the last few days because he is suspected of being involved in public procurement. What I would like to say to you is that the government has declared zero tolerance to corruption, and any entrepreneur, any company in this country, we have three main expectations: that work should be done fairly, if ordered, pay taxes, and that laws should be respected in all circumstances. I would also like to say to you that it was this government that tightened up the corruption penalties and, by the way, forbade companies with an opaque background to enter public procurement. Honourable Congressman, Jobbik often scares both the House and the Hungarian population that it will soon be in government, but if you listen a little bit, you can learn about things that show how governorial Jobbik is. I would like to point out three things to you in this regard, which concern the subject that you have mentioned. Last week, we didn't talk about this here in this House, but there was an interim election in Gyula, and it's not only interesting because the Fidesz candidate won high, but because Jobbik didn't start a candidate here, and what's really interesting is that their local chief man explained it by saying that they want to save resources, they want to save money in Hungarian. So, if we understand correctly, a seven-year-old party in Parliament, with hundreds of millions coming from the state every year, doesn't have the money to run for a local election, so you're interested in voters. However, at the request of their master, there is money to start a vendetta campaign of hundreds of millions, whether from credit or from real costs, as many as there are. So much for publicity. By the way, the Gyulai are not the only case where Jobbik has not launched a candidate, which is what happened in Zuglo, Szentendre, which is basically supporting the left, so the thank-you letter will arrive. Jobbik's compass is also confused in other cases, such as Ozdon, where there is suspicion that the mayor has entered a public procurement and even hangs up the cynic meter by commenting on the whole, the underlying recording, that it is just a risk analysis. Do you understand? Risk analysis. If you want to do something about transparency, I suggest that you leave for Ozd today. Then there is another case, which may have serious international implications. According to German news reports, Russian money may have come to Jobbik, and this has not been substantially denied. If this were to be proven, this would not be the only scandal, because we know that they are also investigating their MEP for espionage charges. Typically, this representative was not even called off, while even Gábor Vona said that he had heard things that were unsettling. Dear House, In a nutshell, Jobbik's governing capacity is this: he's in debt like the former SZDSZ, then he can't even start a local candidate in a local election, he's suspected that they're going to go into public procurement, and what's as serious as that, they're still not going to clear up the charges of foreign funding. No wonder the former national party is in a downward spiral, and there are more and more people who wouldn't trust a bucket of sour cabbage to do so, let alone control the country. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-26	István Hollik, on behalf of the KDNP, also applied for a speech before the agenda: the left is threatening the security of Hungary! It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that one of the political sentences made last week is László Botka, who may be called "Botka" - a fence-breaker, "László." [[Voices in the lines of MSZP: Ew!]] What exactly did the PM's candidate for the MSZP say? Literally, I would definitely say that we wouldn't have built the fence, and I will try to break it down as soon as possible. We have seen that some pathetic attempts have been made by the MSZP after the statement to explain the sentence, but this cannot be misunderstood, honourable Members of the Left. He said that they wouldn't have built a fence, they wouldn't have protected the Hungarian people, and that you would do everything you could to break down this fence. László Botka said all this a week after the terrorist act in Manchester, which proved that, unfortunately, people's everyday safety in Europe is disappearing. He said all this when the European Union is still unable to stop illegal migration, and there is no expert who would see the EU-Turkish agreement so stable that it would take out the Balkan route for a long time. He said all this when no one now doubts that there is a clear link between illegal migration and the increase in the threat of terrorism. He said all this when more and more leaders in Europe see that the first and most important thing to do in the area of illegal migration is to protect borders, and in this they regard the Hungarian border closure as a good example. And László Botka said this in the first place, after 3.4 million Hungarians clearly expressed their will in last year's referendum, they agree that the government will ensure the safety of everyday life with a complete border closure. [[14.00]] László Botka doesn't care about the safety of Hungarian people, he doesn't care about the fate of Europe. There can be no other reason for this than that the left, the left led by him, remains pro-immigration. If we look at the past, we can see that this has been proven several times. First, they wanted to keep quiet that illegal migration is a problem at all. We can remember the sentence of Ágnes Kunhalmi, according to which illegal immigration is a false problem; but László Botka himself wrote on his Facebook page two years ago - I would like to quote it literally here - the whole of Europe is laughing at the fact that the Fidesz government is the leader of a completely useless 175-mile wire fence to fight refugees. Then, by all means, they protested against the physical and legal border closure, and then voted against the amendment of the basic law, which would have been the most effective legal protection for the Hungarian people. Then we can remember that László Botka said in the midst of the immigration crisis that the population of Szeged was not disturbed by refugees at all. Interestingly, there was a completely different report of sandback farmers living less than a few kilometers from the city of Szeged. I met them two weeks ago. They said they didn't feel safe at all when tens of thousands of migrants walked through their lands and crops, hurting their crops. So those who live near the southern border know precisely that the fence is their safety. Therefore, even the reality of his immediate environment and residence cannot shake the candidate for Prime Minister of the MSZP out of his pro-immigration position. After that, we are not surprised that in last week's ominous interview, László Botka also told us that after becoming Prime Minister candidate, his first trip will lead to Brussels. It is clear that the left has not changed, whether it is called Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai or László Botka. They, like ten years ago, do not represent the interests of the Hungarian people, the security and development of our country in Brussels, but represent Brussels in Hungary. However, they cannot ignore two important things. On the one hand, we will do everything we can to protect the security of the Hungarian people, we will protect our achievements so far, and we will not allow others to decide who we want to live with and who we do not. On the other hand, our fellow MSZP Members, do not forget that in the 2018 elections, Brussels bureaucrats will not be able to vote, but only Hungarian citizens will be able to vote. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: We know!]] Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-28	In response, Secretary of State Károly Kontra has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, László Botka, unfortunately, is not his first words, his first words about wanting to break down the fence. Botka has put faith in immigration many times. It is memorable, as you quoted, that in the midst of the immigration crisis, he said that the population of the city of Szeged was not disturbed at all by the refugees. [[Zoltán Pride: They pay very well for stupidity, Karchi!]] At the same time, it is worth watching who László Botka faced this statement outside the common sense. It is worth considering these manifestations that László Botka, as the candidate for Prime Minister of the MSZP, has faced people, citizens of Hungary, the security of Hungary and Hungary. It confronted more than 1 million citizens who expressed their views during the 2015 national consultation. He faced the 3 million 362 thousand voters who voted against mass immigration in the referendum last year, on 2 October 2016 against forced resettlement. In fact, he offended them when he said that I think that a man of good sense certainly does not want to have a fence in the middle of Europe, regardless of party standing, so my answer is once again that we will be able to break down the fence as quickly as possible. [[Zoltán Pride: You didn't tell me what he said the whole time!]] Although we do not yet know the outcome here, László Botka has a good chance of confronting the overwhelming majority of over 1 million 600 thousand people who have expressed their views in the current national consultation, they have also gone against their opinions. To sum up, László Botka has repeatedly opposed the Hungarian people's clear and stated opinion. Hungarians and Hungarians do not ask for mass immigration. It's time for Botka to acknowledge that and apologize for his outrageous sentences. Dear Parliament, Allow me to quote a sentence from the final declaration of the G7 countries adopted at the summit on 26 and 27 May, which underlines that countries have a sovereign right to defend their own borders. Dear Parliament, This is what Hungary has been doing for more than two years, the created triple protection, legal protection, the legal border closure, the lively defence and the fence together protect the southern borders of Hungary, protect the Hungarian people and protect Hungary. Thanks to this, we can say that the Hungarian people may be the most secure of all European countries. Dear Parliament, It is also time for the Hungarian Socialist Party to make a statement about the fact that the Hungarian Socialist Party should finally state clearly what László Botka thinks about its pro-immigration position. It is certainly not a coincidence that, as the Member mentioned in his speech, László Botka's first trip to Brussels will lead us to discover whether he will discuss the removal of the fence in Brussels. We're waiting for that answer. I believe that Hungary's interests are clearly expressed by the government: Hungary must be protected, Hungarian people must be protected, the security of Hungarian people must be protected, the Schengen borders must be protected, European citizens must be protected. This is served by protection three, and this is what László Botka's statement goes against when he wants to tear down the fence. This position is unacceptable. László Botka apologize. [[Zoltán Grimlock: From whom, Karchi?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-30	Ladies and gentlemen, Lajos Kósa, the leader of the Fidesz Group, will be the last to take the floor before the agenda:. Ahmed H., the terrorist he has defended in the European Parliament! It's an address. [[Zoltán Lukács: Dessert at the end!]] Congressman's got the floor. [[Dr. László Kács: Cocktail delicacy!]]
u2017-05-29-31	Mr. President. Dear House, The European Parliament has taken a shocking decision in which they clearly and clearly stand up for a terrorist simply to harm Hungary in order to attack Hungary. Everyone in Europe sees the dangers of terrorism, especially those who have a direct experience and experience of terrorism. There have been hundreds of victims of terrorism so far, and yet the European Parliament has decided to stand by a terrorist suspect and convicted man. His name is Ahmed H. Who is he? In September 2015, one of the organizers of the Röszke attack was Megafon, the man who attacked the police, who proved to have thrown at the police at least three times different items, in which the Szeged Tribunal also condemns ten years of detention and final expulsion in December 2016. I would add, with a felony of terrorism, which, by the way, has a sentence of 10 to 20 years, especially in serious cases with life imprisonment. So the Szeged Tribunal correctly used in the punishments the fact that this is undoubtedly an act of terrorism, but a mild form of acts of terrorism. However, everyone knows that the terrorist act does not start with someone strapping bombs on his back and blowing himself up, but with people organising attacks, providing logistical support and helping thousands of people enter the European Union illegally without controls. By the way, the Counter-Terrorism Center will capture Ahmed H. at the end of September 2015. He's got seven passports when he's caught. They all have Schengen visas. He also has a Cyprus passport and can legally enter the European Union because he has been legally staying in Cyprus with his family for ten years. So if his intentions were honest, he could have entered the territory of the European Union at any time, just as he had not entered the battle of Röszke, because the Hungarian authorities would have caught him in Szeged. [[14.10]] We know that it is known that the press has confirmed that it is a member of a fundamentalist organization called Tablighi Jamaat, which is used as a front and cover by various terrorist organizations. After this, I can safely say that Hungary is shocked, but I can safely say that all of Europe should be shocked that the unbridled political witch hunt has brought the European Parliament, including the Hungarian left-wing representatives, to condemn Hungary because a man who has clearly committed a terrorist crime is being captured and detained. What else do these Brussels gentlemen need? ! How many hundred innocent people have to die to finally wake up in the ivory towers? ! How come the Manchester bombing, the Lyon bombing, ignoring the various bombings from London to Berlin, by desecrating the memory of the victims, they simply take a terrorist into their defense for various, immeasurable political reasons? ! Such and similar cases have not yet occurred. Otherwise, the European Parliament will protect terror and criminals. Don't give us, God, and will we live to see that the left of the European Parliament is starting to clean up for various political calculations? This must be avoided now, and Europe and the world should be brought to the attention of the Skandalum, which was otherwise blinded by political hatred in the decision and decision of the European Parliament. If we do not do this, we encourage, I mean, the European Parliament encourages terrorism, and they are simply desecrating the memory of the victims. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-32	Once again, Csaba Dömötör has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-29-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Last week, the United Kingdom was really shaken by a brutal terrorist attack, and in Manchester there really was a level of terrorism, because there really is nothing more despicable than taking the lives of innocent children. This case proves for many times that immigration without barriers poses serious security risks and that the policy of European open doors increases the risk of terrorism from day to day, and that terror is something we do not want to accept and will not accept as part of everyday life. Under these circumstances, it would not be expected that countries that work to strengthen security would be under fire every day. I am saying this because the European Parliament has recently adopted a resolution that attacks Hungary and which, by the way, protects a certain Ahmed H., a convicted immigrant. Ahmed H. really needs to know that in 2015 he attacked the Hungarian police with stones. This is a criminal offence in Hungary, and for that reason it was condemned by the court. Here came a few activists, called defenders, who were funded from abroad, who attacked the government, as a result of which the European Parliament defended this terrorist. More specifically, the resolution states that he was convicted of, I quote, using megaphones to resolve tension and throwing three objects at border guards. These three objects, as we referred to earlier, were actually stone. In fact, it makes it even more outrageous that this European Parliament resolution has also been voted by left-wing representatives, the left-wing representatives elected in Hungary. So at least the picture is clear: the party MSZP, the Gyurcsány Party and Dialogue - I think that is their last name - took the side of Ahmed H. instead of the Hungarian police, with seven passports, each with Schengen visas. Dear House, No matter how many decisions are taken in Brussels, however many left-wing representatives and activists report us here, the security of the country remains the first for the government. We will not allow Hungary to become a gateway, nor will we allow them to force the resettlement programmes on us, the mere fact of which strengthens the security risk. It is no coincidence that immigration and security have been included in the current national consultation. According to last week's summaries, over 1 million 650 thousand people have already given their opinions. This also means that this is the most successful national consultation so far, and it is also expected to mean that we can say that Hungarian citizens have never stood up for such a large number of government policies in a national consultation. All of this shows two things. On the one hand, it shows that according to the Hungarians, there is a stake in what we are now taking on the issue of immigration, and on the other hand it shows who of the parliamentary parties is on the same side as the country's interests and who is against the interests of the Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, I'm speaking to you now. Since immigration is not simply a party political issue, it is still not too late for the left to finally take the side of Hungarian people and security. [[Dr. László Szakács: Have you read our 2015 proposal?]] The first step of this may be to question László Botka today, because the fact is that he did not actually say his programming speech to the MSZP Congress, but to Reuters, where he proposed to break down the border lock. He said we'll make sure the fence is broken down as soon as possible. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We're not breaking it down! Destroyable.]] So the MSZP will try to break down the fence as soon as possible, so says the sentence. If László Botka really believes so, then he will face the will of millions of Hungarians. I understand that the left is going to go to the Red Points of the Bito Salon, and I understand that they are trying to please foreign left-wing politicians, but we would like to make it clear that there is no and there will be no cheap compromise on the border lock. It is not because the border lock works and serves Hungary's safety. Therefore, honourable left-wing Members, it is not too late to press the redesign button. I ask you to turn to László Botka, whether he really meant the border lock down. And it would be good to have them declare as factions whether they agree with his words, because if they do not, they will prove for the long time that in the matter of the country's security, Hungarians can't count on left-wing parties now and can't count on them, at least one year before the election. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-34	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-05-29-35	Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik; László Horváth, Fidesz. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: Ágnes Kunhalmi, MSZP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; Zoltán Demeter, Fidesz. On Tuesday, István Szávay, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. No one came forward after the agenda on Wednesday.
u2017-05-29-36	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the time frame for the submission. Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the adoption of a regulation on measures necessary for the establishment of a fair and equitable pension system (V/15693). The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include a time frame allocation. At the request of the MSZP and the KDNP Group, the resolution on certain house rules is 37 Paragraph 4 states that the time frame available to the political group will be doubled in the event of the adoption of a time-frame negotiation. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2017-05-29-37	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed timeframe, in the light of the time frame increases, is as follows: 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group; 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, which has initiated a doubling, i.e. a total of 76 minutes; 45 minutes for the MSZP Group, a total of 90 minutes; 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group; 24 minutes for the LMP Group; and 10 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-05-29-38	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the House whether it agrees that the proposal will be discussed in the time frame presented by the notary and modified by the MSZP and KDNP, as requested. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has accepted the submission by 131 votes in favour, 22 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee is T/15329 on the prevention of covert party funding and the provision of transparent campaign funding. Rule 70 of the House Rule for bill No. § (1) of the Treaty states that T/15329/8 has proposed an over-extensive amendment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to Section 70 (2) of the House Rules, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the amendment is related to the content of a proposal for a formal amendment or to the House Rules 44. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decision, the rapporteur for the Committee for the Overextensive Amendment and the rapporteur for the Minority Opinion drawn up in the Committee may address the matter within a time frame of four minutes. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. No rapporteur was presented by the Judicial Committee, which submitted an over-extensive amendment. I ask whether the rapporteur wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, So now it's time to make a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the house rules are 70. Paragraph 2 establishes whether T/15329/8. The regularity of the over-extensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, it establishes whether T/15329/8 is applicable. The regularity of the over-extensive amendment proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) [[14.20]] The Parliament established the regularity of the overextensive amendment proposal by 116 votes in favour, 20 against and 16 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Since the Parliament has established the regularity of the expanding amendment proposal, the House Rule 70. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the general debate on this amendment is reopened. I would like to inform you that amendments may be tabled by its representatives to the proposal for an amendment which is duly overextensive until the debate is over. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. In derogation from the house rules, the House Committee initiates that the Parliament is T/15381 on Hungary's central budget for 2018. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, the Committee on Budgets shall depart from the rules of the House so that the summary report and the summary amendment are amended in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure. Without prejudice to the time limit set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, on Tuesday, 6 June 2017, until 9 a.m.; the leader of any political group shall not exceed 10 a.m., the house rule shall be 48. You may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. Proposal for a derogation from house rules T/15381/1232. You can get to know him on the website. I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House agreed to derogate from the house rules by 149 votes to one, with two abstentions. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on a committee discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to consult B/15684 on the safety of nuclear power in Hungary in 2015. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 113 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the designated Economic Committee to report on the final report of the Cooperative Credit Institutions' Integration Fund B/15686. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The House asked the designated committee to take its decision by 115 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Committee on Culture to ask B/14342. on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2016 for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 115 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are not deciding on a personal proposal today. Now, at 2:26 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Zoltán Lukács and László Szakács, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: Congressman Zoltán Lukács has the floor. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2017-05-29-39	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Minister, You are aware that the last underground mine in the country, the mining plant in Markushegy, closed on 31 December 2015. This mining plant is located between Russian girl, Pustadam and Bokod, at 43 square kilometers, but Pustam may be the most affected in this case. Under this settlement are most of the mining tunnels. Of course, during mining there were mining damage, which is inevitable, but at that time the company was more or less indemnifying the people there. However, after the mine was closed - after the salvage of the useful things and the sealing - the earth's movements caused extremely serious mining damage in the area. Vértesi Erőmű Zrt. In fact, for a year after the closure, he had been deceiving people; he told them that he was going to hire an outside company to deal with the mining damage. For about a year nothing happened in this case, and when it was found that this was not true, and the company was entrusted with the settlement of claims, then, of course, the people who lived there, the mayor, the board, and everyone else involved, turned to the company to at least provide information, to establish a procedural order, or to appoint a responsible person. None of this happened. Finally, in early 2017, at a pretty stormy village meeting, emotions peaked. Here people said how ignored they were, how no one cared about them, how serious damage they had suffered, and, in fact, 60 out of the hundreds have so far been assessed, and two of them have paid for all the damages. There would be money for this case, since 42 billion forints is available in the budget, in connection with the coal pennies that we all pay. For each kilowatt hour, everyone pays 19 cents to the central budget, and this is precisely to alleviate such damage, to manage the mine closures, to spend on coal mining restructuring, to reduce the impact of coal mining on the environment and to reduce the damage. I'd like to ask you why the settlement is so slow. Are you unable to manage the Vértes Power Plant, or have you been instructed not to deal with this case? I'm asking you if the 42 billion forints are still available for compensation. When will the VÉRT at least fulfill its promises at the village forum in the beginning of 2017? - because nothing's happened since then? And why does the state and the government contribute to the loss of the inhabitants of a settlement for so long and that no one will compensate them for these matters? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2017-05-29-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The coal production of the mining plant in Markushegy was completed about 20 years ago. [[14.30]] After the extraction, Vértesi Erőmű Zrt. His predecessor has already paid some HUF 190 million in compensation for the mining damage he caused. With more than HUF 42 billion in non-refundable funding for the closure of the mining plant in Markushegy, approved by the European Commission, the company may spend nearly HUF 20 billion on the social and regional problems associated with the closure of the mine, including mining damage, until 2018. Under the rules governing the payment of the aid, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office checks that Vértesi Erőmű Zrt. the aid is indeed devoted to the tasks approved by the European Commission. In 2016, two village meetings provided information on the process of claim and assessment of mining damage. From then on, 215 notifications were received, which was, by the way, a multiple of his previous years. The Vértes Power Plant has requested an external judicial expert for the legal and professional assessment of mining damage, who prepares an evaluation opinion. The expert is constantly working on the processing and investigation. On the basis of the 215 reports so far, 195 inspections have been carried out. On the survey, the expert looks at the documentation of the buildings, if these are not available to the owner, he obtains the data from the mining plant's repository or from the Land Administration. The compensation shall be calculated on the basis of an assessment of the current architectural standards and prices. So far, the expert has prepared and sent 107 reports to the company. In 15 out of 107 events, the expert found that the damage was related to mining operations. For the 15 mining damages established by the expert, the Vértes Power Plant has paid a compensation of HUF 12.5 million. Under the Mining Act, Vértes Power Plant is obliged to reimburse mining damage as a mining contractor, regardless of the amount of support it receives under this title. The remaining cases will be investigated on an ongoing basis. By the way, I would like to reassure both the people in the wilderness and the people in the area that the Vértes Power Plant - fulfilling its legal obligation - will investigate every announcement and will withstand any damage to the mine that it has caused. In the unexpected event that the Member does not accept my reply, I ask that the Parliament do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-42	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Mr László Szakács responds to what the Secretary of State has said. You have the floor.
u2017-05-29-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, When the mine in Markushegy was closed, we discussed it here, and I told you how this happened in the Mecsek at the time, and you said that this would be completely different. No! You're making exactly the same mistakes that happened 17 years ago, but you didn't learn anything from it. Homes, houses, apartments, fortunes are damaged, ruined, people are in danger when the back wall slips, when the gas line breaks, and you keep talking about the experts coming. You're saying now, Mr. Secretary, that there are 107 events, 15 of which are accepted, which means that there will be 92. Secretary of State, you're looking for a solution. I am helping you now: reverse the burden of proof, prove to the mining contractor that something is not broken because of the mine, there is a legal possibility. That's what I would have looked for in your answer, but you didn't say that, so I don't accept it. Thank you.
u2017-05-29-44	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes to none, 35 votes to none, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, who tricked the rescue workers? It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2017-05-29-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, For the career model of rescue workers, many promises were made by the government, with which it seems that the workers of the ministry have been defrauded. However, not only can a salary increase keep workers on track, but also the introduction of a well-functioning career model. Such a model clearly shows the possibility of progress, can be counted well, gives a clear picture of one's entry into the ministry, how much work he can achieve and appreciate. You promised to introduce a career model for rescue workers in the field of doctors and workers. This was an impertinent lie from the beginning, since neither the doctors nor the professionals attempted to introduce such a lie. And the last time you told me that you weren't on the agenda, Mr. Secretary. At their 2016 promise, they lied to the faces of the rescue workers. After all, fabulous promises have turned into a humiliating 10 percent increase announced by Minister Mihály Varga, and at the hearing of the news, the servants of the service have submitted their resignations. The situation is compounded by the turmoil and internal struggles around the service, and the new director-general seems to be only new in his title, and behind him are the long-standing cadres, who, with their long, decade-long work, have rightly won the grudges of all the workers. The government, therefore, seems to have further increased the problem in the rescue service, which is already in difficulty, with inconsistent personnel policy and Bianko's promises. And the need for a decent career model is well shown by average wages in the ministry. Along with the available allowances, for example, you can hardly earn more than 125 thousand HUF per month for a driver. But first-time paramedics barely make 130,000 forints. It's not a big stunt to raise ten percent of that, Mr. Secretary of State. The wages of the vast majority of rescue workers - especially drivers and nurses - are also lower than the average domestic earnings. Without a normal wage, with a serious drop-off, it's a miracle that some people get on the ambulances and go out to the patients. Meanwhile, a few empty promises from the government, a new director-general announced annually, and keeping the old slepp alive. In these respects, I ask the Secretary of State: will the rescue workers receive their promised career model? Why can't rescue workers expect stability at work? And when does the government end the daily threat of rescue workers, that is, the Director General of the National Rescue Service and his circle? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, in 2010, rescue services were in rather hopeless conditions. For years, no new ambulances have been bought, overall, in the last government cycle, not only did they not increase, let alone leave the rescue budget at its value, but there was a 5.2 percent reduction in the support of the rescue service - a rather hopeless situation. The old tactics of socialists and liberals are to try to disable certain areas of government by underfunding, once one or another can be privatised. Well, they were preparing to privatise patient transport here, which is why, obviously, their very poor economic performance has also reduced their support for the rescue service. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has tried to increase the support of the rescue service in recent years, which was HUF 22.5 billion in 2010, so that is what the rescue service managed with. Jobbik will now have the opportunity to vote in favour of the much higher rescue budget, as next year's budget will be HUF 39.7 billion against HUF 22.5 billion in 2010. While there was a more than 5% decrease in the socialist period, there was a 75% increase here. If Jobbik were to support this with his vote, he would contribute to the increase in wages that would happen in the ambulance service. A nurse had a gross salary of 185 600 HUF in 2012. Based on the draft budget for next year, this could rise to HUF 185 600 340 124. A paramedic's average wage was 242 300 HUF in 2012, next year's budget amounts to 460 112 HUF. The average salary of rescue doctors in 2012 was 390 500 HUF, next year's budget amounts to 645,000 HUF. The Jobbik will have a chance to support this in a few weeks, see if they support it or not. [[14.40]] Thus, in three years the total number of rescue workers will receive a 67 percent wage increase last year, this year and next year. On 1 November this year, on 1 January next year and on 1 November next year, the wages of rescue workers will be increased, for rescue doctors on 1 November this year, for nurses this year and next year, and the increase in wages in January will cover everyone. This additional resource, which provides the January wage increase in addition to other health wage increases, is a HUF 4 billion surplus in next year's budget. Overall, this year's rescue service budget represents an extra HUF 6.4 billion in wages, and next year it will be HUF 7.5 billion in total. In addition, it is important to improve working conditions, which you have been referring to, Congressman. That is why the purchase of 496 new ambulances was important, and that 193 ambulances arrive in the future. It was important to build 30 new rescue stations, so that the rescue workers can get to the scene faster. But it was also important that 97 were renovated, and indeed this renovation should continue. The process of purchasing work clothes is important, and it is important that this includes cleaning, so that they can serve our health in decent conditions, in decent equipment and for a decent wage. I think the job of a man who saves lives every day is priceless. But the rise that has occurred in recent years is a rise that we can and must continue to be proud of. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-29-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You could read the column of the Hungarian Times, Mr. State Secretary, it is only worth reading on social media the scanned transfer papers that rescue workers receive, since they buy from it - this is one of them. The other is to support the budget. Of course, we support wage increases for paramedics and healthcare workers, but stealing from the budget in an institutional system will not be supported. Don't ask me to do that, because that would be an accomplice. But he's silent about the fact that the previous director took over the company with a $1.2 billion deficit and turned it into a $3.5 billion bonus. Is that why he had to be removed? Is that why you had to put a puppet at the head of the National Rescue Service who would carry out every single order and threaten the workers? Shame on you, Mr. Secretary. How can you accept that answer? ! I don't accept it, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-29-50	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 33 votes in favour and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. When is the ratification of the Istanbul Convention expected? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-29-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 14 February 2017, the Ministry of Justice released the Istanbul Convention for social consultation, i.e. the presentation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Combating and Preventing Violence against Women. One word as a hundred: we see that the ratification, or implementation, of the Istanbul Convention has been going on in Hungary for years. The government, as we know, joined the Convention more than three years ago, and when you sent it to an administrative meeting, we hoped that something would happen, but since then there has been a great silence again, and some of the worrying motives for the convention that I consider important to clarify here within the framework of the Parliament. I have repeatedly asked the Government in Parliament about the possible date of ratification. I have always been told that basically it is not the political will that is missing; it is the preparation itself that takes a long time. As we know, in 2013, there was a working group dealing with violence against women. The task of this task force was essentially to prepare, and when he finished his work, there was an administrative consultation, and now we cannot see the end of it. The government seems to be stalling, while there is a very strange communication from the side of government lobbyists in the public space, and we do not really see what the government is playing at: do you want to ratify the agreement within a closed deadline, or are you waiting for someone to drill this convention, and in Hungary we cannot apply this method of prevention and victim support in a complex way? We've heard in Parliament several times how much you think Fidesz has done for women. Relationship violence became a stand-alone criminal act, we know that, because it was the LMP that fought it back in the previous cycle. [[Moraj from the benches of the governing parties.]] We also know that HUF 2.8 billion has been transferred from EU funds to this area. However, I find all of this very little, given that in Hungary a woman continues to die weekly as a result of the violence of relationships. One word for it: I can tell you that we need more and more action and more resources. I'd love for the Fidesz representatives to listen. It's not one of those issues. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where is your own faction?]] which could be the subject of any kind of party or ideological debate. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's your faction?]] I think that in the Hungarian Parliament, if we are talking about this issue, everyone should pay attention [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 60% missing!]] Not making noise and talking to each other. Dear Secretary of State, In this country, you do not stand up for victims of sexual assault, and you do not do enough to prevent it. The training of professionals is incomplete, there is no law enforcement, victim support, coordination of educational institutions and civilians, professional protocols are incomplete, there is no sufficient number of seats. This system is bleeding from a thousand wounds, and we see a woman dying every week in this country because of sexual assault. I am very concerned that Szilárd Németh, who now owns this area, said at the end of last week that we consider the ratification of the Istanbul Convention to be extremely risky. This was a government post, and you do not want to ratify the Istanbul Convention, or is this about Szilárd Németh's private opinion? Please be kind and clear.
u2017-05-29-52	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-05-29-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, On 7 April 2011, the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee adopted the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Relationship Violence, which was opened for signature on 11 May 2011 and entered into force on 1 August 2014. The Government, as we have indicated on several occasions and in many forms, considers it an important task to prepare for accession to the Convention. We consider the fight against violence against women and the elimination of all discrimination against women to be of paramount importance. It is an important element of the domestic guarantee of human rights that we join the relevant international conventions and that our internal law creates compliance with the requirements of the international human rights norms. However, in order to recognise an agreement as binding on ourselves, we need to assess the internal legal environment in order not to have a regulatory element in our legal system that is contrary to the international convention. The scope of regulation of the Convention goes well beyond the powers of one or two ministries, since it defines material and procedural obligations in the field of violence against women and within the relationship in a complex way. The implementation of the Convention will be monitored by a separate body, the expert group on violence against women and violence against relationships in relation to the acceding States. I would like to inform the Member that the working group on violence against women, starting and coordinating the preparation of accession, has completed its work. The preparations for accession continued in the framework of the administrative consultation, as you mentioned. The draft proposal to publish the text of the Convention has been drawn up and the material has been discussed in administrative and social terms. Civil society organisations and individuals were also given the opportunity to comment during the social consultation. I would like to point out that there have been a lot of comments on the plan. We have received comments in support of and against accession. Overall, however, I would like to point out that the concerns and opposition to accession are overwhelming. Following the processing of individual comments, the material prepared taking into account all aspects is expected to be submitted to the Government in autumn 2017. The Government may decide to adopt the draft and submit it to Parliament. I also think it is important to emphasise that only 23 of the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe have ratified the Convention. On average, two to three years have passed between signature and ratification. 21 other Member States have signed the Convention but have not ratified it. The United Kingdom and Germany have not ratified the Convention. Most of the states have been unable to ratify the document since 2011, so it has been six years, while Hungary, as I have already mentioned several times, has only been working on this issue for three years. In any case, social consultation is essential for ratification, which I referred to, and in which several comments were received to the wallet. These proposals and insights are currently being studied by government experts. As opposed to what opposition politicians say, the Istanbul Convention is not a miracle, but simply by ratifying it, it would not be possible to protect vulnerable families and vulnerable people. [[14.50]] This is why the Ministry of Justice has prepared the victim protection strategy, which is based on real existing needs and contains effective proposals to mitigate and resolve crisis situations. In legislation on this subject, the Ministry of Justice and the other wallets also seek to make the new rules more conducive to the work of police and public authorities and to encourage more active involvement of civil society in victim support. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-54	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-29-55	Mr President, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply, and I find it even outrageous what you have said here. So what you're saying is that every week, a woman's blood is required by the violence of relationships, and you're gonna make sure that Germany and the United Kingdom haven't ratified it yet, and you don't need it either. I'm sorry, but you guys can raisin out the international numbers that support your policy. But why doesn't he add that statistics like this are not in many countries like Hungary? But I don't know what I expect from Fidesz, because they themselves tolerate colleagues who committed the violence of relationships, and they didn't exclude the Member of the Parliament with the blind komondor. I find what they did deeply insensitive and outrageous. I have to tell you, there's no way you're gonna come in here and tell me the facts. I know very well that the task force worked, and I am well aware of the discussions. Since I am a member of the Hungarian Parliament, I have been constantly trying to make progress on the Istanbul Convention. But the fact that you're here with the IKSO, the KDNP junior and the Fundamental Rights Center...
u2017-05-29-56	I'm waiting for your answer, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-29-57	... I find this unacceptable. It's in the best interest of women.
u2017-05-29-58	I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-29-59	I don't care about the paid lobbyists of IKS, anyone else or Fidesz! [[There's a lot of noise on the pro-government side.]] Please ratify the Istanbul Convention.
u2017-05-29-60	Dear Parliament, As I understand it correctly, Mrs Congresswoman does not accept the Secretary of State's reply. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You got that right.]] So I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 16 against and 11 abstentions. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Sándor Hadházy, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. How many families have been helped so far by the home creation discount and what resources will be available for these purposes in the 2018 budget? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-05-29-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian families could count on the help of Fidesz in our first government cycle. In order to support access to the home of families, in 2000 we launched a home creation programme, which provided loans to all those who wanted to get their own home on a HUF basis with a public interest rate. Following the 2002 change of government, although the Socialists promised something else in the campaign, the new government reduced the level of support already in 2003 and then reduced it step by step and finally eliminated it. However, Fidesz's policy has not changed since then, which is why we launched the home-building benefit programme for families after 2010. A home-building discount is only one of the complex programs that currently help families who want to live in their own homes. They are served by the tax reduction and the HUF 10 million payment for the three children. The improvement in housing is clearly indicated by the 47 percent increase in housing in the first quarter of this year compared to last year's same period. Ancillary effects of the CSOK include the fact that if ten thousand more apartments are built, it will boost economic growth by half and create up to 10,000 new jobs. CSOK also encourages childbearing, the scheme consisting of grants and fixed rate subsidised housing loans primarily helps families with three children or young couples with so many children. The negative demographic trends that have lasted for decades have not only reduced the population of the country, but the low birth rate also slows down economic growth. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to supporting people from work and maintaining security, the 2018 budget also became a family budget. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how many families have so far benefited from the home creation discount and what resources will be available for these purposes in the 2018 budget. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-05-29-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary's budget for 2018 is the budget of people and families from work, as you stressed. Supporting and strengthening families is the government's social policy focus. So far, the government has helped improve the lives of families and encouraged children, and this trend, this series of decisions, will continue next year. The home creation programme, which aims at accessing homes for families and improving housing conditions, will provide further confirmation in the 2018 budget. In addition to encouraging economic growth, the programme can also contribute to achieving objectives of national strategic importance, since reversing the negative demographic trend and keeping skilled workers at home are also the objectives of the 2018 budget. As a result of the government's economic policy programme, the employment and income situation of the population has also improved noticeably. Today, families are much braver and safer to start buying homes, building homes than in the previous currency-loaning times. An important element of the implementation of the housing goals is that the interest rate reduction policy also means that forint-based housing loans can be used and made available again. Within the framework of the home creation programme, the government has taken a number of measures to substantially improve the prospects for home creation of Hungarian families. The government's aim is to give every Hungarian family a home of their own. This was done by reducing the VAT rate on housing sales to 5 percent in December 2015, increasing the family home creation discount, and, in this context, creating a very favourable, state-supported housing loan scheme - you also mentioned this - and for self-built companies, in line with the VAT reduction, a tax refund subsidy has also been introduced. The CSOK is extremely popular, as the numbers prove. From 1 July 2015 until the end of April 2017, around 44 600 families submitted their applications in support of HUF 115.3 billion. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned that last year there was a significant turnaround in the housing market. I would like to confirm that this year we have the first quarter data, and this positive trend continues, as the number of apartments transferred increased by 47 percent, while the number of building permits issued by 89 percent. The next budget for 2018 provides a significant source of support for the family home creation programme. This amount amounts to HUF 211 billion compared to HUF 148 billion this year. If we compare this to 2010, the results are even more serious, as the resources for home creation have increased by 80 percent. It is therefore clear that the budget for 2018 is also a family budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2017-05-29-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-29-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that perhaps the most important of the tasks ahead of us is to stop population loss and support families. That is why I am pleased with the thoughts that Mr Secretary said, so I naturally accept the answer. I think it is extremely important for families and young people to have a safe and predictable vision in order to maintain a natural sense of familyhood and to achieve an adequate outcome. So thank you very much, I accept the answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Why do you not support the re-introduction of the 13th month's pension? Why do they not support a substantial increase in the lowest pensions? Why don't they finally increase drug subsidies for elderly people in need? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister entrusted Zoltán Balog, the Minister of Human Resources, with responsibility and competence according to the subject. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation at the request of the Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-67	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Last week, the People's Welfare Committee discussed proposals for amendments to the 2018 budget. The MSZP faction has made three more serious proposals. One was a social package, the other was a health package, and we proposed the introduction of a 13th month pension as a third. I'm not going to tell you a secret, but our only motion was not supported by the pro-government side, while we see that there is an enormous amount of money to move to the Castle, there is still a lot of money to build the Olympic center, stadiums and recently, I hear, wrestling halls as well. Compared to this, the salaries of civil servants were not supported, nor the increase in family benefits, nor the support of the needy, sick, elderly people. But we could also talk about the fact that next year you will receive HUF 11.6 billion less for disability benefits than this year. In my opinion, the government recognizes the failure to convert the disabled system when the exceptional disability benefit is introduced, for which only HUF 150 million is intended within the Health Insurance Fund. There has been no change in the provision of social catering, the day-to-day institutional care of older people, the day-to-day institutional care of disabled people and people with dementia, the day-to-day institutional care of psychiatric and addicts, and the day-to-day institutional care of the homeless. In addition, they did not support our proposals for elderly patients in need. The increase in the amount of the decent pension fund was not supported. We have proposed to increase the 150 million budget for the newly introduced exceptional disability benefits to HUF 1 billion, but this has also been voted off by the pro-government majority. Yet, much more money is needed than the amount included in the draft to help all people who have suffered injustices and who have changed their ability to work. Based on the experience of recent years, we see the need to increase the amount of aid for the purchase of social firewood, as many still heated with or without wood, we know well with everything else that threatens the health of the environment and the people living in the apartment. We proposed doubling the framework, so we would increase the appropriation by HUF 3 billion, but unfortunately this was not supported either. From this point of view, I would like to ask the Secretary of State why they did not support the introduction of the 13th month pension, why they did not support the substantial increase in the lowest pensions and why they did not support the pharmaceutical framework for elderly people in need. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-29-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I think that László Botka and the MSZP and the congressman have little more hypocrisy than what they are now performing in relation to the 13th month pension. About the same credibility as when Gábor Simon marched with a bank statement of HUF 200 million at the beginning of the hunger march. We also remember Ildikó Lendvai, who slowly said that there would be no gas price increase. And he said so slowly that not only did it become a 40 percent increase in gas prices, it became a 200 percent increase in gas prices. Even though you say these things very slowly, honourable Member, people do not believe you. You don't respect pensioners if you think you don't remember who took the 13th month allowance from pensioners. You and your fellow Members were here in Parliament at quarter to 6 p.m. on 11 May 2009, and the 13th month pension was taken from pensioners by name. You voted for this, including Gergely Bárándy, László Botka, Sándor Burány, Zoltán Gőgös, Ferenc Gúr, Ferenc Gyurcsány, István Hiller, István Józsa, Lajos Korózs, Zoltán Legény, Zoltán Lukács, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, current MSZP President, Zsolt Molnár, Gábor Simon, to put it this way. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] , József Tóbias, István Tukacs, Ágnes Vadai, Árpád Velez. I'm sorry if I missed someone on the show. But you, honourable Member, have all taken away the 13th month's pension. In fact, Lajos Korózs even explained in Mokka that it was not really a pension, it was not a pension, it was a benefit. And he also justified why it should be taken; it should be taken because the country is in such a close state situation that if they do not take away the 13th month pension from pensioners, the country may go bankrupt and the 12th and 11th month pension will also be lost. [[Dr. István Józsa and Ágnes Kunhalmi constantly intervene.]] At that time, the MSZP Botka Lászlóstul, Lajos Korózs, tried to convince the country that the loss of the 13th month pension is good, that this is the cost of maintaining the 11th and 12th month pension, honourable Member. This kind of demand is about as if the arsonist complained to firefighters about how slowly they're coming out. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] To put out the fire, honourable Member. That is your credibility; you, who would have taxed pensions if Fidesz-KDNP had not come to power in 2010, would have come into force. Well, Your Honour, this is completely untrue from your mouth. The 13th month pension was taken from pensioners when they needed it most, because the prices increased, there was a very difficult social situation here, and other social benefits were also reduced, and a month's pension was taken from all Hungarian pensioners. It's a great disdain for pensioners to think they don't remember that. You did this because you were instructed to do so from Brussels. And now László Botka will take his first trip to Brussels to receive further instructions. Then you took the 13th month pension there because you said that the European Union and the IMF are asking Hungary to do so, and that they will only pay the loans if they take these steps, otherwise there will be insolvency in Hungary. They did, they took it. And if they were told to do so again, they would not impose a bank tax, not sectoral special taxes, like the Fidesz-KDNP government did - so that people would not pay the price of the crisis, but the large international companies - but would once again beat the dust on ordinary people living from work and pensioners, taking these funds from them. The Hungarian Socialist Party cannot be entrusted with a henhouse, nor can the pension fund be entrusted to the Hungarian Socialist Party. In contrast, pensions have increased by 23 percent in recent years, which represents a 9.5 percent increase in real terms. We have undertaken to preserve its value, we have achieved much more than a month's worth of money in the pockets of pensioners, and next year will be the first year when we may be able to pay a pension premium. Next year's budget includes HUF 32 billion, which has not been seen in Hungary in decades. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-70	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I ask Congressman Lajos Korózs if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-05-29-71	I don't accept it. I thought Mr. Secretary of State was more serious than what you just said. Look, I would also like to make it clear to the public of the country who is monitoring the broadcast that for seven years the Socialists have granted the 13th month pension, this has been swept away by the economic crisis, and Fidesz has not given it back in seven years. [[An uproar in the pro-government factions.]] I'm telling you, Fidesz hasn't returned it in seven years. Please, Fidesz didn't give it back. Now, from this point of view, I would like to say that, repeating what has been said in the interpellation, there is a clear set of values. They don't spend any more money on equity pensions, they don't spend any more money on social firewood, they don't spend any more money on exceptional disability benefits, but they do give money to build an Olympic stadium with no Olympics. They give money to Paul Schmitt for office rental. I can't accept their answer. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[15.10]]
u2017-05-29-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 11 against and 12 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Their own laws were not taken into account when national assets were transferred to their friends and multinationals? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2017-05-29-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Once again, I have to ask the Secretary of State about the land heist in Bábolna, on the one hand, because I have done this in writing four times and at least twice in word, there are mixed answers, there are completely conflicting answers, and on the other hand there is a suspicion that similar land evasions have been committed on an industrial basis in other parts of the country. Before the privatisation began, they had a much more shady method, namely, let's say, the story of Bábolna, when three acres were cut off from 87 hectares of public land, in this form they wanted to privatize it in accordance with the legislation at the time, but this does not fit, because the story was nothing more than to prevent it from being covered by the protection of land in this form, it was still existing and they could sell it. He was bought by a guy related to you, and then passed it on to a multinational company with a big profit. It's a typical mean fidesz story. The answers that come from you, when I tell you this, fall into total chaos, and, as I have already said, conflicting. Only five lies you've given me over the past few years, let me draw attention to. First of all, they lied that it wasn't land. That's not true, Mr. Secretary. It was removed from production after being privatized. They also lied about local farmers asking for it. If that was the case, how could a man who wasn't a farmer have bought it and, as I said, is connected to you? They also said it's normal business. If that's true, it's creepy, but if that's true, then why would they investigate the case later? They also lied that it was an undivided common area, and that was how they tried to settle this complicated relationship. That's not true. We were talking about a 1/1 state property. They also lied that it was the optimal use of it. This is really unacceptable and insane, if it is true that the optimal use of the Fidesz government is, according to the government, to public land, to transfer land from state property to the world's largest GMO multinational company. Make up your mind which one is true. Were they helping the GMO lobby and wasting public land, or were they just so careless and stupid that they didn't notice that and left this loophole open? So much for the lies now; try, Mr Secretary, to answer the following questions honestly. How many acres of Hungarian state land have been played with such methods? Where are these areas, who have they come to? The inquiry you have promised here in Parliament's walls, Mr Secretary of State, has begun, with what result, who has been called to account, and what consequences have it had? How's the recovery of the production grounds coming along? Because it was also promised that they would try to get this back into the property of the Hungarian people. We are waiting for meaningful answers to these questions, and now we expect you to at least leave out the five lies that we have made clear that they are clearly not true and that we should turn to specific answers to specific questions. That's what everyone wants you to do, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bitay Márton Örs responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-05-29-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I see you're tired by the end of the cycle. In the beginning, he may have read even worse materials, but now a two-to-three-page written answer may exceed the maximum of his interest. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] This is why he may be making such mistakes at the public meeting of the Hungarian Parliament. Allow me to help you with your apparently limited capacity [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Take it easy on your face.]] I'll try to give you a brief answer so that we can maybe put an end to this. We're not talking farmland, it wasn't sold by the state, and it wasn't bought by a company. I hope that these three statements will be sufficient for you to clearly recognise the fact that, despite asking the same question over and over again, you do not understand, it does not mean that there has been any irregularity. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The refusal to read the answer to a simple written question does not give him the right to defile others and others' work. But I would also be happy to tell you that in the Hungarian land sales program, the land for farmers! In his program more than 30,000 Hungarian farmers bought land. As you can see, nearly a third of all farmers have reached state land. And I would like to make it clear to you that we consider this to be a proper and normal procedure, that the Hungarian State has offered to buy land which it has given to Hungarian farmers in various rental arrangements, and that at a public auction, the local farmers could buy it. And I would like to make it clear that I will continue to insist that, if there is a need to buy land in addition to its farmland, where appropriate, with the need to set up a pig farm or any other livestock establishment, then the state will contribute to this, and it will contribute to this by sharing, because this is the normal way of operation, not to keep it for ourselves, not to have farmers farming on tens of thousands of hectares, and not to have large entrepreneurs who support you with a good heart. I'd like to make it clear, Mr. Congressman, once again. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] See if we can make a clear conclusion: what you're asking is not land, the sale you're asking wasn't sold by the state, and the buyer is not a legal person. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-76	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-05-29-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we didn't get any honest answers. Mr. Secretary, you know very well that you're slipping after Monsanto has acquired the area. He didn't buy it directly from the state, because before you, the state sold it to a fidesz local strobe. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] And that's how he got to Monsanto later. You didn't answer that, Mr. Secretary. And when the Hungarian state got rid of this area, it was still a state ploughing ground, and it was later reclassified. Another question is how they could have done that. It would be worth looking at the property papers, Mr. Secretary, and I have attached them to my written question, which clearly shows that you know wrong or you're lying. And if you have mentioned privatisation again, although this story started before then, you should rather talk about how the concentration of the estate could have increased in Hungary, how do you imagine anyone believing that they offered state land for 600-700 million forints and bought it by locally living family farmers. Joke, Mr. Secretary. They did not examine how your oligarchs announced minimum wage tractors could buy land for 300 million forints - this scandal! I can't accept it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Will the extension of the free textbook supply continue? It's an address. It is for Congressman István Hollik.
u2017-05-29-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, When we laid down in the Public Education Act in 2011 the goal of giving as many children and as many years as possible free textbooks as possible in a system of upbringing, we could only hope to achieve this. In the 2013/14 academic year, the provision of free textbooks affected 614 thousand children, including not only those in the first class at the time, but also those who were entitled to receive free textbooks through other subjects' rights or normative benefits, thus free of charge. The number of students provided has already increased to 733 thousand students in the academic year. This represented 67 per cent of the total number of students, including all junior students, pupils in ethnic and pedagogical education and those entitled to normative benefits. In addition to tax incentives, support for home creation, employment improvement, real wage increases, support for children in need and free catering, school start-up support is all aimed at reducing the burden on families to educate children, leaving them with more money for other important expenses. It is also worth highlighting, as the general debate on next year's budget took place last week, that next year there will be HUF 1900 billion in support of families. This is almost twice as much as in 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP government took over the country's governance from the socialists. [[15.20]] Dear Secretary of State, The government's social measures are in line with the KDNP programme, which focuses on supporting the family community and creating a common future for Hungarian society. In particular, we consider the support of families and children to be our most important goal, since all the taxes spent on our children's education, education and improvement of their living conditions will be refunded many times. Special support for families is our joint task, which is why I would like to ask Mr State Secretary, at the beginning of the autumn school year, how many children will be provided with free textbooks and how much money is involved, how much has changed the state's spending over the years. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Congressman, Dear House, Think back to 2014, when the government decided to split social affairs and family affairs into two, with the intention of raising a separate, completely separate area for everyone with a family, a family, and a separate area for the public administration system, and social affairs should operate independently, precisely because family policy is not equal to social policy for Fidesz-KDNP since 2010, but it was also important to represent it in the governance structure. Not only do we want to help families who are in a very difficult financial situation, we obviously want to help them several times, but we also want to make their lives easier for families that, by the way, do not lack in their everyday lives, but they also give up having children so that their standard of living is higher financially, because in other ways they want their lives to be completed in the family. Therefore, we have turned a lot of benefits, which have been social in the past, into family support - not social support, but family support - not just for poor people, but also for those who live on average standards of living in the middle class or in other ways. This is what we think of as family-friendly governance, when we show the family's commitment, the child's commitment, which is a goal for us to support in a national strategy, the family's goal, which the state can support with its own instruments, is in this way, and we try to support it on our own. This is also reflected in the system of children's meals, as you said, Mr President, which appears in the system of children's recreation, and this is also reflected in the system of textbook care. It is important that public responsibility in textbook provision alone has resulted in a huge cost reduction, as textbook prices have decreased by 40 percent. That's what it meant, not for profit-making companies, but for the state to enter the textbook system. But it was also important to reduce the burden of schooling, because we want to make sure that if you have children, you know that six years later, seven years later, eight years later, and I could continue the line, you don't have to deal with the cost of textbooks for more children, up to three children, four children, but the state takes it from them. For this reason, the government's goal was to make it free in a continuous, up-and-coming system. But this year, the government decided to move four years in a year, and already one step instead of 2020 it introduced in 2017 from 1 September that the textbook packages are absolutely free for students of the 1-8th grade. For everyone, 1-8. But the government has gone beyond its previous commitment, as we see that the purchase of the entire textbook package, often for several years, in the first grade of high school enrollment, whether in vocational training or in high school, is a very heavy burden. Therefore, not only in grade 1-8 but also in grade 9, so we also made textbook packages free in the first grade of high school from 1 September. As a whole, more than 1 million 18,000 students will receive their textbooks free of charge, responding to the question of the Member. You're not gonna get a check, you're not gonna get any notice, you're only gonna get the textbooks for free, 1-9th grade, 100% of everyone. Thus, in one year, the number of people who receive free textbooks in Hungary will increase by 285 thousand, by 39 percent. The government could do all this, as I said, at a cheaper price than it could have done, say, ten years ago, when market prices raised the price of textbooks. This now represents HUF 12.4 billion in next year's budget, which is HUF 2.4 billion more than previously anticipated. But, of course, this expansion is worth it to the government, and it is important that 39 percent more people get free textbooks. We also hope that this will help Hungary to become a family-friendly country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-82	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-29-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. It is good to hear that more and more children can get textbooks free of charge, and even as the Secretary of State replied, from 1 to 8 years of this year, all children will have access to the textbook free of charge. It wasn't always like that, was it? First of all, the socialists did not manage the textbook service by state, but by outsourcing it, and secondly, they did not spend so much on providing free textbooks. This also shows that in the middle of Fidesz-KDNP's policy, family and children are indeed standing. And I can confirm, Mr State Secretary, that our goal is indeed to make Hungary a family-friendly country. So I thank you for your answers, and I accept them. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: å KLIK was in such trouble that the government stole 17 billion forints? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, KLIK almost went bankrupt by 2015, since it accumulated 17 billion dollars of debt. The problem was also addressed by the LMP at the time, and we kept track of the growth of the debt mountain, which almost buried the entire Hungarian school system. At the same time, in November 2015, KLIK won a point 17 billion EU grant as a consortium partner for the TÁMOP project support for the integration pedagogical system. Just as much money as you owed me. And that this could not have been a coincidence, it was also ensured by the publication of the tender, as the consortium partner could only be the one subject of the EMMI and the central budgetary body acting as the central office. Surprisingly, the KLIK only came forward and won it - they simply put the tender on it. However, it seems very much that instead of financing these skills-enhancing, integration-training and kindergarten development programmes, which would have been the original goal of the programme, the source was simply used to consolidate debt. What happened was that the Ministry of Human Resources quickly realized that they couldn't give the source directly, because once again, in November 2015, at the end of the EU payment cycle, those objectives had already been achieved. So we see a retrospective - once again, a hungaricum - tender, which, using its financing technique, returned the source of the program to the budget, and then, suddenly, the debt of the KLIK disappeared. There is no way that they did not know before the application that the goals they were applying for had already been achieved in the Hungarian school system. They started the process to open the money taps in Brussels and then channeled the source back to the Hungarian budget with a clever trick to consolidate the failing KLIK. According to the LMP, there is no particular need for CLIK, and there is no need for a nationalised school system, but it is certain that EU funds should be used for real development rather than to give them to friends, or, as in the present case, to correct the failure of a failed operating system. What's the truth? Was the bankrupt institutionkeeper really saved from EU funds? [[15.30]] Could there be such a coincidence that the amount of money the institution owes will be just as large a resource that will eventually be returned to the budget and even turned into debt settlement? How was 17 billion HUF planned to be published in November 2015 and to conclude a contract on 10 December 2015? How did they want to spend so much money on kindergarten development, for example? What kind of project is this, which has already been implemented, called down again? Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2017-05-29-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I see you've run out of factions, and you've run out of subjects. That is why it is months ago, and it has already raised disproved issues, honourable Member. I think we have been discussing these issues before. We have clearly refuted your theory that one has nothing to do with the other. The implementation of the project was also examined by the Directorate-General for European Aid Audit and found it to be systemic. Therefore, this project has nothing to do with any previous lack of CLIK. Honourable Congressman, By the way, it's not the KLIK's lack, it's not the KLIK's lack of money, it's the schools. Schools needed to give more money for this, and we did so, as the 2016 budget gave schools HUF 91.5 billion more. It is not the operation of the CLIK that consumes the overwhelming majority of these funds, but that is what we use to raise the wages of teachers, and obviously because we have raised the wages of teachers, because we are raising the minimum wage to a very large extent, so schools need more money to manage it, because there are classes, classes that may require more teachers or more educators. That is why it has been necessary, in recent years, to provide more and more resources for schools, and we have done so. I mean, after the transfer and transfer, there was still a part of the school budget that was missing, but that's gone for the day. In fact, the expenditure in rem was fully covered. KLIK's debt disappeared completely, which was not KLIK's debt, but the school's debt in Hungary. We are proud that we spent hundreds of billions of forints as a surplus to increase the wages of teachers by 50 percent. But next year's budget also includes additional resources: the HUF 8.7 billion surplus to raise wages for the lowest earners, the teachers' career, i.e. 8.9 billion forints as a surplus due to the progress of teachers, but we trust that this framework will be exhausted, the more people qualifying themselves, the more teachers who come out of I to become teachers' II or master teachers, and with a higher salary, they will assist students in better education. However, it is also about qualifications, or even about seven years before the old age pension, that teacher II. The next year's budget also includes HUF quarter billion as a surplus at the cost of graduation. For educational purposes, the budget includes HUF 1.9 billion as a surplus. Teachers will have extra discounts for the hours, since those who are involved in student government or have a class. The compensation for this must also be paid, since these lessons must be kept by someone else. This represents a surplus of HUF 1.5 billion. But there are many billions of forints in surplus for investments and renovations, but a large part of them will also be covered by EU funds. So there is a great deal of surplus that we can talk about either in the budget of 18 or elsewhere, honourable Member, in the KLIK system or now in the system of 59 district centers; but your own question is that the government has stolen 17 billion forints for schools, which is incomprehensible in itself. Honourable Congressman, There were development resources that we used for development, and KLIK has operational resources from the central budget, and, of course, it has development resources from the central budget, but there are very large levels of EU developments in the education system. That is what we want to continue to do. We will also raise the cover for the further operation of the Klebelsberg Center and the schools, teachers, teachers and students in Hungarian in the next year's budget by tens of billions forints even if the LMP votes against it, as it did in the previous years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-88	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-05-29-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I can't accept it because it didn't give me any rebuttal. He said it was denied, it wasn't true, it wasn't denied anywhere. And the fact that the EUTAF, which consists of government officials, said that it was right does not mean that it is right. I just can't imagine; I really wanted you to have 5 minutes to tell me how you imagined that on 10 December 2015, a few days before Christmas, HUF 17 billion would be issued for a project, when you know that that project must be completed by 31 December 2015. That's what you guys call being out of control. So it's very easy to call all the money off that it's been rolled out, because you know very well that this will have to be paid back in a few years, and you're terribly keen that you don't have the responsibility, because it's nothing but budget fraud. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No!]] Stealing the European Union's money is also a budget fraud. Giving 17 billion forints to know that nothing will come of it is nothing but fraud. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause?]]
u2017-05-29-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes in favour, 27 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Albania's governance of the right-wing Conservative Democratic Party between 2005 and 13 has achieved significant results in the fight against drug production and trafficking. In 2013, however, something happened that was a disaster in the history of all countries: the socialists returned to power. At first, all they wanted was to legalise the consumption of marijuana, but now they have reached the point that there are about tens of thousands of drug plantations throughout the country, which are guarded by private armies and which the police do not bother at all. Since the socialists came to power, drug production seems to have become the main policy of the left. [[Noise, clarity, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] 27 years after the fall of communism, Albanian politics remains under the control of the strong clans under Stalinian dictatorship. The Socialist Party is not much different from its spiritual ancestors, for example, a few months ago they wanted to appoint a minister of the Interior who, during the communist dictatorship that imprisoned about 100,000 people and killed 5500 people without trial, was a state attorney, whose brother was suspected of international drug trafficking. The socialists look to the whole country as a huge drug plantation with the sole aim of making as much profit to them as possible. The Socialist Prime Minister can only do this because he knows George Soros among his influential friends. He attended the latest - number three - wedding of the billionaire speculator, and his current, fourth wife was the former head of the Albanian office of the Open Society Foundation. Of course, belonging to the Soros clan gives him protection: the European Parliament's decision on Albania, adopted a few days ago, consists of 203 points, but there is no mention of drug production. The new socialist elite owes its rule to a significant extent to the Open Society Foundation of György Soros: they received international scholarships and then returned home to try to influence Albanian politics with so-called civil society organisations. Dear Secretary of State, How does the Soros network affect the lives of the Albanian people? [[A round of applause in the ranks of the age groups. Deficiencies and interventions in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-05-29-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear fellow Members, The Secretary of State will answer, and I ask you to listen in a proper manner. [[Interpreting from MSZP so.rai: Let's try without laughing, it's just hard.]] Dear Parliament, State Secretary László Szabó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-93	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, As regards Albania, I would like to give you the good news that the internal political tension that has lasted for several months has been resolved, at least temporarily, by an agreement concluded between the pro-government socialists and the opposition democrats on 18 May 2017. The opposition Democratic Party has reached a delay in the date of parliamentary elections and the transfer of several key positions of government and electoral importance to the opposition. [[15.40]] Both sides have been satisfied by the agreement and we trust that this agreement and its implementation will continue to go well, although only ten days have been available to implement it. This agreement also provides for amendments to the electoral code and related legislation to ensure the transparency of party financing. The Albanian Parliament has also taken the necessary steps to implement this. Albania has been a candidate country for EU membership since June 2014 and seeks to make further progress in five key areas that the EU expects in order to take the EU's decision to open accession negotiations as soon as possible. The five areas include public administration, judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime and certain human rights issues. I can assure you that, in addition to other EU Member States, Hungarian diplomacy draws attention to the importance of full fulfilment of the tasks set out in the five key integration areas, and we pay particular attention to the issue of drug production and drug trafficking in Albania, its merger with Albanian political circles, and we trust that the European Union will also pay attention to these processes. The last time we made a comment on this was on 19 May 2017 at the Council formation meeting where Albania was a separate topic. How NGOs financed by Soros are trying to influence political relations in the Western Balkans is not only monitored by the Hungarian government and several European countries, but also by the US House of Representatives sent a delegation to the Western Balkans two weeks ago, including Albania, to examine exactly how such organisations - for example, the US or even US embassies - are trying to exert political pressure on certain Western Balkan countries. American voters and voters do not like this, and we trust that this visit will be effective. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-94	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-29-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is possible to joke from socialist benches about how Albania gets to the plenary session [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Only because of the Albanians!]] But based on their weekend Prime Minister candidate, Botka, a fence-breaker, or, if you like, a fence-breaking statement, it is possible to think of the real danger if the socialists and the socialists in Macedonia are also in power, by funding the Soros civil society organisations and promoting the mass migration of migrants to Hungary. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Is that why the People's Party voted you down?]] And with this [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We are not alone, I quote the words of an Irish senator who said in the Council of Europe: Rónán Mullen: By examining the foundations of George Soros, it is possible to conclude that he wants to manipulate the masses of people by putting his own people in position and providing special privileges to the elite. The Irish are with us, not just the Americans. Thank you very much, I accept your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. I would ask my fellow socialists, as they will listen to the next speech, to do so with our fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: Where is the investigation following the Veszprém report on the crime of high value economic fraud and fraudulent treatment? The floor is for the congressman. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm glad you can answer, and not Minister, because I think as a Veszprém Countyman, you have more information on this matter. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, more than two years ago, at the end of April 2015, the internal auditor report of the Institutional Service Organization of Veszprém was prepared, which found serious irregularities in the management of the institution. The internal investigation of the municipality of Veszprém County has also revealed a number of serious omissions, irregularities and infringements, including unprotected commitments, payment without prior commitment and repeated violations of the Public Procurement Act. Members of the Socialist Group of the local government, such as Ferenc Hartmann, have repeatedly asked for and initiated further action on the matter, but for a long time the management of the city hall has considered the errors to be moderate. Then came the turn, six months after the report was completed, on November 2, 2015 Gyula Porga, the Fidesz mayor of the city, filed a complaint against unknown perpetrators on the grounds of a reasonable suspicion of the crime of high value economic fraud and fraudulent treatment. Due to a conflict of interest in proceedings, the Somogy County Police Department took over the case. According to police investigations, leaking news, a number of witnesses in this case testified to Lajos Némedi, the Fidesz deputy mayor of the city, about missing public funds and the renovation of the politician's house, claiming that although the work at the politician's house was officially carried out by a private company, government employees were actually working on the renovation. Dear Secretary of State, So I'm asking you, what are the results of the investigation over a year and a half ago? Who is responsible for the illegal operation of the Veszprém Institutional Service Organization? Is there an investigation into Lajos Némedi, the Fidesz Vice Mayor of the city, on any matter in this context? And does the authority investigate the renovation of the deputy mayor's house in connection with the missing public money? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-05-29-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that since 1990 the Hungarian Parliament has been unbroken with the practice that the responding does not comment on the details of the case in the ongoing criminal proceedings. We, too, maintain this practice in order to avoid prejudicing and possibly giving an unsubstantiated opinion on the ongoing procedures. I am able to inform you and this House that the Somogy County Police Department is Act C of 2012 on Criminal Code 376. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 and the fraudulent treatment in accordance with paragraph 4 (a) of this Article shall be brought against an unsub who is unknown because of a criminal offence and suspicion of other criminal offences. The procedural measures necessary for the detection of the facts are being carried out, involving hearings of witnesses and the secondment of an expert. Criminal proceedings are conducted under the enhanced supervision of the District and Detective Public Prosecutor's Office of Veszprém. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-100	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-29-101	Dear Secretary of State, I am saddened by your reply, so I would like to predict that I do not accept this answer, because what you quoted, the unbroken practice that started in the '90s, is usually true if it is not a matter of opposition representatives. But it was also important for the Secretary of State to respond because there are rumors in Veszprém that you personally wanted to stop the procedure that the police had begun in this case. You could at least deny in Parliament that you didn't want to touch him in any way, you didn't want to slow down, you didn't want to stop this procedure against the Fidesz politician. Thus the question mark remains whether or not you wanted to intervene personally in this case, for example; this will be seen on the basis of the later work of the police. Mr President, of course I do not accept the answer; the answer was insufficient. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 98 votes in favour, 28 votes against and no abstentions. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament, Secretary of State Károly Kontra, on a point of order, after the interpellations I can give the floor to the Secretary of State according to the house rules. Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. You will not give back public money? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2017-05-29-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Less than a month ago, on 2 May, during the debate on preventing party funding and securing transparent campaign funding, I was forced to draw the attention of my fellow members of the government in a most scandalous case. [[15.50]] In the absence of a meaningful response, and due to the potom given by the Hungarian Electricity Industries to the NGO Forum, which is not slightly fidesz-oriented, it is now necessary to highlight the often outrageous practice of state-owned companies, although it is not 500 million, but only a small 320 million. Hungarian air traffic control, 100% state-owned HungaroControl Zrt. On 17 October 2016, the Association behind Viktor Orbán's civic circle gave 320 million HUF support to the National Foundation, the chairman of which is Tamás László's fideszes patriate. The public company's inaccessible decision-making mechanism, the granting of money in a way that cannot be influenced by the public will, to a foundation linked to a policy with a thousand fibers, is more than outrageous. In Jobbik's opinion, this is a sin, and we have therefore filed a complaint, particularly in the form of a high-value misrepresentation of the transaction. I'm not gonna tell you a big secret by shutting the procedure down, failing it. The fact that a public company distributes public funds during its social responsibility programme may be acceptable in some cases, but the Hungarian Corporate Social Responsibility Programme has also set the objective of supporting aviation promotion. What the Alliance for the Nation has to do with this task is a mystery, but it is also a mystery why those responsible for public spending, their inventors, executioners, and beneficiaries are not intended to be punished. But the main question is when these 320 million forints and all the other public funds diverted to politicians' foundations will be returned to where they belong, so to the Hungarian budget, because these funds could be a thousand times better destination. I could bring it here in connection with this case, even though HungaroControl was generous with others, the young Titan of Fidelitas, the Fidesz Vice President of the Somogy County General Assembly, received 25 million forints from them, but as they gave it, Szerencségy Zrt. He was generous with them. It's probably a coincidence, isn't it, the connection between the millions we've received and the party stand? I would ask for a specific reply by the Secretary of State without dissuade me. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, HungaroControl Zrt. has been operating profitably for many years and has not resorted to a central source or any other state aid for its business. In its management, it is bound by the same rules as other state-owned companies under the ownership rights of the Ministry of National Development. HungaroControl has been engaged in a wide range of social field activities since 2012. The priority of the social responsibility programme you mentioned is to support initiatives to promote air traffic management, aviation and air transport, the development of these areas and related services. In the programme, similar resources are provided by the successful economic activity of HungaroControl until the last fill-in. The presentation, knowledge and awareness of the sector and the profession are in line with the economic interests of the company, as it also facilitates the recruitment of new workers among other things. For a few years, the company has tried to address young Hungarians not only in Hungary but also across the border, counting them as possible air traffic controllers and other professional students. Among other things, the Association for Nation supports the social and cultural activities of Hungarian civil organizations and self-employed groups in the Carpathian Basin, thus reaching young people across the border. The amount of aid granted to the Foundation for Nation may be used only and exclusively for the purpose of achieving those objectives, under the conditions laid down in the contract, in accordance with the objectives set out in the Foundation's statutes. The Statutes expressly provide for the prohibition of the eligibility of political, religious and religious activities. The Association must demonstrate in detail the use of the aid within the framework of its clearing obligation. Any repayment of the aid already granted may be made on the basis of the contract and in the event of any breach thereof. I ask you, Member, to consider my answer and to accept it as far as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-106	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-29-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We are no longer surprised at how well public funds are converted into private assets, such as oiled public procurement or overpriced public procurement. We're not even surprised when some of the Fidesz potentas are being financed by public funds for their own girlfriends, and then we won't have to be surprised when they finance their own foundations with public money. We're not surprised, but we can't accept it. We cannot accept it, because we do not want Hungary to become a banana republic. By the way, we cannot accept this answer, Mr. Secretary, because there would have been almost a thousand good reasons to spend this money. If you had looked at Jobbik's budget amendments, then this almost a thousand amendments would have been an opportunity for you, and it is now offering you the opportunity to spend this kind of money better.
u2017-05-29-108	We're waiting for your answer, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-109	So I can't accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer, so I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 26 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interview to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. When will the Roma training school be investigated? Does the state fund phantom schools? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-111	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP calls for an immediate government inquiry into the European Polytechnics Training School and Special Secondary School, which is maintained by the Roma National Government in Budapest. The school receives a state normative of 100 million, but there is a strong suspicion that it is a phantom institution, and apparently there are no students or teachers at the school. When I recently went out to the scene in my work as a representative during school hours, I saw only one or two of my fellow IT staff from the secretariat, the classrooms were closed as well. The LMP has tried to investigate the suspicions raised by the institution's maintainer, the Central Roma Nationality Municipality, and the press could also read about the NAV investigation, which started because of the unauthorized use of money. We have submitted a request for information to all the participants in the case: we have contacted the State Audit Office, the City Council, the Central Roma National Government, the Budapest Public Prosecutor's Office, the Hungarian State Treasury and even the NAV. However, the most important player as the institution's maintainer is the minority self-government, but its leader did not commend us for a response, and he is hiding his obligation to provide information. We tried to put the picture together from the other answers, and it turned out that there have been countless maladministrations about the operation: they did not comply with the legislation, they accumulated debts, they were burdened with repayment obligations, and there are procedures and a number of procedures under way. [[16.00]] We also asked questions to Minister Zoltán Balog and Minister Mihály Varga, but we did not receive any meaningful answers. That is why I wanted to go now to the Prime Minister's Office, ask him for an answer to this question and ask him to coordinate government activities, because, apparently, it does not work here, in this case. We wanted to... obviously I mentioned our question to the EMMI and the Ministry of National Economy. They told us about the data they received from the maintenance company, which apparently doesn't add up, because there are no students in the institution, and there are a number of other problems. We are experiencing, obviously, for the reasons set out above, that there is a serious problem here and that we need to be monitored, which would be the power of the Prime Minister's Office. I look forward to Mr Retvári's reply on what he will have to say. An institution receives a hundred million-dollar grant, a hundred million-million-dollar normative. How is it possible that after many problems, abuses, announcements, NAV investigations - I note that the NAV study has been going on for years - the government does not act, but is idly watching the events? Secretary of State, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-29-112	Congressman! Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2017-05-29-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know exactly what location he was at, because the school itself operates at two locations in Budapest, the XI. and in District X, and in two rural locations, in Pest County. So if you want a full picture, I suggest you go to all four locations. He said he'd gone to a lot of places to ask questions. He may not have gone to one place, the Hungarian Socialist Party, as the head of the institution's maintainer is the president of the Roma department of the MSZP in Budapest. You may be able to get more answers from there, honourable Member. It's a high school, elementary school, vocational school and vocational school. Since September 2014, it has been maintained by the Metropolitan Roma Nationality Municipality. It also has an operating licence issued by the Budapest Metropolitan Government Office. The use of subsidies - both legal and legal - is controlled every four years by the Hungarian Treasury, and the legal operation is monitored every two years by the Budapest Government Office. These controls will, of course, continue in the future. If something is found to be irregular, it may be repayment, suspension of additional aid, suspected fraud or, in the case of unlawful operations, a report or withdrawal of the authorisation may be made. The Hungarian State Treasury carried out investigations in 2014 and 2015. As a result of the 2014 investigation, a repayment obligation of HUF 732 733 was established in the course of the on-the-spot verification. The 16th. The accounts for the year 2012 are still ongoing, but here you have already received the historical Treasury data, Congressman, weeks ago, so you have been able to look at them in detail in writing and review them. That means he didn't get much of a new piece of information. In the matter concerned, the Central Hungarian Criminal Directorate of the National Tax and Customs Office is also investigating, so it can be concluded, honourable Member, that both the government and the competent authorities are doing their job. We would not tolerate any kind of activity, and it would not be without consequences if someone maintained a phantom school. We will act by every legal means against any violation of law, no matter what the abuse, whoever it is. So if further checks reveal irregularities, as previously required, as I have reported to you on two procedures, they will continue to take these steps. Control mechanisms work here, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-114	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Mr István Ikotity if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-05-29-115	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State was very short-talking, he took just over half of his time. You're obviously embarrassed by this subject. It's a pretty shocking government attitude that they've been ruling for seven years, and they point to the MSZP to ask them exactly what's going on in this school. Can't you answer that, Mr. Secretary of State? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Their politicians are their leaders!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you, too, because you may not have heard: there is a hundred million-dollar normative by an institution that clearly does not work, I think this is something that must be investigated. The NAV investigation hasn't been closed in years. There is a report in progress, and there are a number of other things that indicate that there is a very serious problem here, and I am getting a response to that. They're obviously covering for this case. If the socialists did this, they'd cover for them, but I think after seven years, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mr. Secretary of State, we shouldn't blame the socialists. I don't accept the answer.
u2017-05-29-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 27 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Can he change the government's immigration policy under pressure from Brussels? It's an address. I give the floor to Szilárd Németh.
u2017-05-29-117	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The series of attacks on our country from Brussels continued last week. In fact, the pressure is increasing, the threat is becoming more brutal, and their reasoning completely ignores the limits of common sense, legality, and integrity. The majority on the left of the European Parliament voted in favour of the proposal for a decision ordering the legal commission to prepare the procedure under Article 7 of the EU Treaty against Hungary. This would mean starting and suspending our country's right to vote in the EU. They want to regulate us, they want to make us impossible, because Hungarian people resist the migration desires and nightmares of Brussels bureaucrats moved by George Soros. The decision condemning Hungary was voted by even the left-wing MEPs of Hungary, and one of them was even involved in the wording, called Péter Niedermüller and a Benedek Jávor. Of course, it was not difficult for them to do so, because the American financial speculator probably told them this: In November 2016, in an unfair court procedure, Syrian citizen Ahmed H. of Cyprus was sentenced to ten years in prison simply because he used megaphones to resolve tensions and threw three items at border guards. It is amazing that, at the request of Soros, the European and the Hungarian Left, by committing an act of terrorism, are absolving and setting up an illegal migrant as a martyr. This is not only an open political intervention and harsh pressure on independent justice, but a particularly outrageous statement by Europe, especially in the shadow of the recent terrorist acts in Manchester, which undermine the safety of people. Ultimately, the leaders of the European Union demand that Hungary abolish the safe transit zone, break down the protective fence and repeal the laws necessary for the operation of the legal and technical border closure. On behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance, I declare that we reject baseless slander, dishonest lying, the entire political attack. The most important thing for us is the security of Hungarian people and the protection of Hungary's sovereignty. I stress that, in the future, only we Hungarian citizens can decide who we want to live with in our country. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State whether the government's immigration policy can change at the pressure of Brussels, waiting for an honorable response. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary does not want to change its immigration policy. We want to tell you who we live with, who we don't. We're not giving this right to anyone. The final declaration of the G7 summit on 26-27 May also stressed that countries have a sovereign right to defend their own borders. This is what Hungary does: it protects its own borders and also protects the Schengen borders. This protects not only the security of the Hungarian people, but also the security of the European people. The Hungarian government intends to maintain both the transit zone and the fence and continues to reject the compulsory introduction of migrants. If, for all these reasons, the European Commission initiates legal proceedings against Hungary, we are ready to fight the legal debate. It is clear that Brussels and the organisations funded by György Soros are working to break down the Hungarian fence, to change the laws that protect Hungary and the Schengen borders, and to blacken Hungary in all possible forums. They want us to be forced by international pressure to let illegal migrants in after all, to give up our achievements so far. We will not, Your Honour. We stand by Hungary's interests! In the referendum held on 2 October 2016, people clearly and clearly expressed their will against forced resettlement. The overwhelming majority of voters, 98 percent, 3 million 362 thousand people voted no. The national consultation was launched in order to ask the opinion of the Hungarian people again. This gives us the authority to defend our achievements so far. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, We stand by our immigration policy so far, we do not want to change it, because it is in the interests of Hungary, but we also protect Europe and the security of the European Union. Otherwise, it would be a compliment, not a reprimand. This praise has not yet come, but we still stand by our immigration policy. Please accept my reply, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-120	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Mr István Szilárd Németh whether he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2017-05-29-121	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your answer. He gave me a number: 3,362 224 people, 98.36 percent result. No one in Democratic Republic can present such a referendum in Europe. So the immigration policy of the Hungarian government and the relationship to illegal migration are based on a very stable basis, the support of the people. [[16.10]] Moreover, it is also based on international treaties, including the Schengen Treaty and Dublin III, which concern the protection of external borders and the identification of those coming to us, so that, among other things, the operation of transit zones is based not only on the wishes and security of the Hungarian people, but also on European international treaties, which, by the way, protect Europe's culture and European social legal certainty. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Ladies and gentlemen, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:. Do you know what happens to the local radios? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2017-05-29-123	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I appeal to you as the ministry responsible for the regulation of government wealth management and electronic communications, hoping that you do not know what is happening to the frequencies of small local rural radio stations. According to reports published in the press, the biggest transformation of the period after the regime change is expected in the local radio market. Many radios and students are also afraid that, before the 2018 election, only radios from the circles of Andy Vajna will be able to broadcast in the Hungarian countryside, giving the local population equal news and opinions. Based on the decisions of the media council over the past period, it can be concluded that market-leading rural radios with decades of history may fail their old, established frequencies. They can be replaced by Fidesz friendly radios, unradiated, with a proper backwind in Vojvodina. The ultimate goal is to listen to Radio 1 in as many settlements as possible. Radio 1 cannot win all local frequencies at the frequency contests itself, so the loophole has been found, because the law does not allow them to take everything away, so we will need the emergent stooges. After the decision of the independent Media Council, the winners only have to agree that radio 1 will be given the opportunity to broadcast within 20 hours a day, and only four hours will be required to broadcast the radio. Unfortunately, the law gives us the opportunity to do so. This is how local radios, which look back on decades of history, can disappear as fresh spots for the blue sky of Hungary, thus erasing a serious value from the history of Hungarian radio. That's why I'm asking you, as Secretary of State of the Ministry for the Management of State Property, that it can't happen to let local frequencies be squandered and destroy local radios. Many people see this trend, even professional organizations see that they will now also distribute frequencies that have not been distributed to 8 county seats, and that frequencies will expire, they will either end up on radios near Andy Vajna or stromans who will say what you want to hear and will not contradict anything. This is not a democracy in the field of radio. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-29-124	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Ákos Kara responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-125	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to discuss the facts against your assumptions, because the rights to use radio frequencies can be obtained by means of a legal tender procedure. The interests of the parties to the proceedings are protected by serious guarantees and the decisions are subject to appeal. These applications are open to anyone who meets the legal requirements. You know as well as I do, my dear Member, that the winners have not been given the frequencies for ever before. This right will be re-submitted after a specified period of time, and when this expires, the Authority will decide again among the applicants on the written, repeated and re-appearing application. That's the way it is everywhere in the world. This will ensure that the scarce spectrum available is always used by the service providers for the most competitive and modern services that meet the interests and needs of consumers, people. These rules also apply to small local radios. Such radio transmitters also received a frequency in a tender earlier and could be used and used for a limited period of time, in accordance with the terms of the previous tender. At the end of this period, market participants will be able to open up their tender opportunities again, and anyone can apply for them. I repeat: for frequencies, anyone will be able to submit a tender. You can submit applications for large national media service providers and small local media service providers. It goes without saying that re-enrolling is also possible, i.e. the small radio that has expired its rights to use the frequency can also start the tender, and even re-enroll will have some advantages, because under the law, this represents extra points in the tender. In this way, the current system also favours small local radios with outgoing frequencies. However, in the course of the tender, the operator whose tender is the best overall wins the frequency, and that is the right way to do so. If the application of another company is considered better than the local small radio, this will obviously be the decision. Yes, this may be the case, as has been the case with the fact that the local radio has won the frequency again. To sum up, therefore, I can safely say that the rights to use spectrum can be obtained by means of a public tender, regulated by law, and it is absolutely certain that the Media Council is acting solely on the basis of the law. Anyone can enter the competition and the person whose application can be assessed as the best according to the legislation will be the winner. After the Media Council has carried out its evaluation, an appeal against a given decision may be requested if there is a need for it, and I think that this is the reassuring guarantee for local communities against your assumptions. Finally, as opposed to your previous government practice, the current government has done much more to facilitate the operating conditions of local small radios. If you will allow me, let me give you some examples, because after 2010, media service charges have decreased significantly, so they have to pay less for the use of frequencies for small local radios, the media regulation adopted in 2010 has allowed these small local radios to receive additional revenue, and I think that we think that the system providing state aid is operating in a more predictable system, which allows the existence of these small radios, by the Media Council's successful operation of the Hungarian media field tour programme for many years. This programme has provided and will provide opportunities for smaller local radio operators in rural areas. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[16.20]]
u2017-05-29-127	Dear Secretary of State, If things were the way you say it, it would be very nice, but unfortunately they are not. Yeah, anyone can run this contest, but not everyone can win. Because those little radios that just started are losing their frequency after 12 to 22 years. If you have to run in a running race with a corner tied to the back and give the other extra opportunities, they are not the same options. That's why I can't accept it. Each Hungarian citizen knows about the Media Council that he is not independent, his decisions cannot be independent. Thus, the small local radios, which have more than 50 percent silence, will be silent this year. I can't accept that as a deck girl. I can't accept that they're destroying people just because they don't meet your expectations. The formal acceptance of a tender and the formal rejection of it, because the other one submitted a much worse tender, I think he's saying a lot of things. Therefore, I cannot accept your answer. I hope that the people listening to local radios know well, and you will be voted down in 18th.
u2017-05-29-128	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, Why not protect the Tisza from another catastrophe? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2017-05-29-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A few weeks ago, I asked your ministry, your minister, a written question, "Who and what do you pollute the Tisza?" It's an address. In the reply sent on 26 April, I was informed that two accredited measurements were carried out on the Upper Tisza last year, which showed no significant pollution. On the other hand, there have been a lot of citizens, civil representatives, and videos have also started to spread on the Internet about the extremely contaminated living water in the section following the accession of the river Szamos to Tisza. The video footage shows the greasy, foamy substance flowing throughout the river, which reeks of fecal matter. In your answer, you wrote about municipal waste, which has started its purification process, but what causes the fish to die and the pollution of the river is clearly industrial waste water. According to several reports, the bloody, greasy, stinking, foaming substance leaving Szamos comes from a meat processing plant operating in a Romanian border settlement. Although it did not specify clearly in its reply who and why it pollutes Tisza, it describes in the last paragraph that the treatment of municipal waste water is provided for in a Directive for the Member States of the Union and that Romania is only required to comply with the waste water treatment obligation provided for therein until 31 December 2018 and therefore a more decisive improvement in the water quality of rivers arriving through Romania can only be expected after that date. Dear Secretary of State, Our question about this is what the government intends to do by this time. By 31 December 2018, should we tolerate pollution of the Tisza from beyond the border, pollution of our rivers just because the European Union Directive only provides for the cleaning of waste water by this deadline? What does the government intend to do to protect the Tisza? Cyanide pollution has clearly damaged the river at the time, and now the Upper Tisza is getting another rather heavy load. Why did they wait for such pollution to be concentrated in Szamos and the Upper Tisza, that fish could only be found missing and the wildlife was in danger? Has the Romanian party been contacted in this case, or are they actually waiting for 2019 to be able to refer to a breach of EU obligations? The situation is quite worrying. Those who are concerned about the environment and the river Tisza, the local residents who live there and have to endure this pollution, which is also a risk of infection, expect clear answers from the government, expect clear answers from the Ministry of Interior about what they are doing to prevent the pollution of the river. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a rich country in water, drinking water and surface water, we have significant water resources, but most of our surface waters, more than 90 percent of them come from across the border. And since these waters come from across the border to the country, they are obviously also at risk. It is also in our interest to guarantee the purity of these waters beyond the border, and we must do everything in our power to ensure that these surface waters are clean, but at the same time we must also see that interference across the border is rather cumbersome and difficult for the Hungarian party. Due to the pollution mentioned by you and the pollution of the river water in general to Hungary through municipal and other waste, the Hungarian authorities carry out continuous checks. Thus, the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Disaster Protection Directorate also held an out-of-line check, and not only in the river area, but also for the first time the potential Hungarian sources of pollution were examined, such as the Várósnámény sewage treatment plant, where things were basically found in order. It includes the modernisation of the waste water treatment plant in Városnámény, and the municipality received funds on the KEOP programme. On the tributaries, communal waste from across the border appears to be a significant burden on rivers, and we have therefore adopted a cooperation programme with neighbouring countries and their representatives. I just want to point out that during the icy flood in 2017, about 3,000 cubic metres of plastic waste, mixed waste, was collected in the water. At the same time, in the framework of bilateral cooperation, we have concluded an intergovernmental agreement with all seven neighbouring countries of the country, which formed working groups on the basis of intergovernmental agreements, and these working groups regularly monitor the quality of water. This is also true of Romania, of course, and the quality of water is also monitored with Romania. We have, of course, contacted the Romanian authorities about the pollution you mentioned, asked the Romanian authorities for an explanation and for the results of the measurements, what they perceive and feel in Romanian territory, but we have not yet received an answer. Obviously, the impurities that the water industry can purify, those impurities, the purification of the rivers, are continuous, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that the countries bordering with us are able to eliminate emissions. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-05-29-133	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Well, it didn't calm me down, and I don't think any Hungarian citizen, especially those living in the Upper Tisza region, because it means that a disaster like the cyanide disaster in Tisza could happen again at any time. The Hungarian government does not have any means to prevent such pollution, or even communal sewage or industrial sewage pollution. So, technically, the Tisza, but not only the Tisza, but all our rivers from across the border are exposed to these influences. You say that you have adopted a cooperation programme, you say that you have asked for an answer to what this pollution is, but you have not yet received an answer, and then as if it were okay, we are waiting for the Romanian party to respond. Until then, fish will die out of the Tisza, until then there will be hazardous sewage spilling throughout the Hungarian section on the Tisza beaches. It's summer, it's beach season, and we don't know what the consequences are. That's an answer I can't accept. We would have expected more decisive measures from the government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. [[16.30]] Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Please, my fellow Members, stay for a moment. I would like to remind you that Secretary of State Károly Kontra has asked to speak on a point of order concerning the interpellation of Mr Attila Mesterházy. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to speak with you personally. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, in the course of his interpellation and in the return response to my reply, said literally, I quote, there are rumors in Veszprém that you personally wanted to stop the procedure that the police started in this case. You could at least deny here in Parliament that you did not want to touch, slow down or stop this procedure against the Fidesz politician in any way. The question mark remains as to whether or not you wanted to intervene personally in this matter. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable Congressman, You were a coward because you didn't say that in your interpellation. [[Moraj in the benches of the MSZP and the governing parties.]] It was when I couldn't answer. You were a sports secretary, you weren't athletic, you were unsportsmanly. But I can also say that it was unfair, these allegations, the rumors you have generated, are without any basis. I absolutely refuse to do so. [[It's constant noise.]] Honourable Congressman, He slandered not only me, but also the law enforcement authorities, the Hungarian authorities. Of course, it doesn't matter to you, it didn't matter when you were on the government, all that matters is political gain, what matters is that you frame the police or the D.A.'s office. Congressman, I reject these. And if you have the courage to say so, to tell that lie, if you're not a coward and you have decency, I will sue you, Congressman. You're lying! Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-136	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work by discussing immediate questions. I would ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber now, to do so quietly. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you accept my advice? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-05-29-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Given the importance of this case, I personally expect an answer from the Prime Minister.
u2017-05-29-138	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. New challenge? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask Mr President for his answer in person.
u2017-05-29-139	With all due respect, I'd like to wait for the President of the National Bank. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-140	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform Mr President that he will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó and László Szakács, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of National Resources an immediate question:. Who was the contact of the Voldemort crime association in your ministry? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Members whether they will accept the person who is responding, or whether they will ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-05-29-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We are personally awaiting an answer from Minister.
u2017-05-29-142	Minister will have to answer at the next second instant question hour. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: Polt, on the back of Polt. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask Mr President for his answer in person.
u2017-05-29-143	Thank you very much. I accept, Mr. President.
u2017-05-29-144	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-29-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Vice President, What we're seeing is that the new Lord's Department gives each other greasy jobs. In fact, all you can see from this is that you're making it look better than the reality that you're just giving each other a greasy job. There is the new master class, and there is the new mercenary in Hungary today. In fact, the situation is much worse than that, you, of course, are building the, hand washing network, which can really work as a network without further ado. We see that the wife of Attorney General Péter Polt in the Hungarian National Bank deals with staff matters, not cheap, but expensive, for a large salary. By the way, we see that there is such a appointment in the Monetary Council, including the wife of the head of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in the Monetary Council, and now we see that the daughter of Péter Polt has been hired by the Hungarian National Bank for a very important role, obviously, or for a junior role, but we see that, in truth, this new Lord's department is always doing each other a favor here; or at least it is building this network. I think that Hungarians are being taught a rather bad example here. I think it is taught here that it is not professional preparation, it is not the ability to take risks, it is the tolerance of risks, it is the strength, it is precisely who has a relationship system, whose parents, whose fathers, who can participate in this network, who can't participate. I would like to ask Mr Vice-President about the issue of conflict of interest. What do you think of conflicts of interest in these matters, and how do you intend to resolve it? Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-29-146	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice President Martin the Great. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-05-29-147	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, In answer to your question, if there's a conflict of interest, here's what I can tell you. Polt Petra, who has been involved, has been employed by the Central Bank since 1 January 2017 and has received a legal position in the Central Bank as a result of the MNB's general recruitment process on the legal board for which he receives adequate remuneration for his job. In all cases, the National Bank investigates the issue of conflicts of interest, and the employee concerned is not subject to any subordination or overrestraint with the head of staff matters, so there is no conflict of interest. In answer to your question, there is no conflict of interest. Thank you.
u2017-05-29-148	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-05-29-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. That wasn't my question, but part of the task is understanding the task, is it? I also talked about Petra Polt, but there were several questions; for example, let's say that the wife of the Attorney General is a senior official of several MNB foundations, where foundations should also be supervised by the Public Prosecutor's Office from a legitimate point of view. I am convinced about you, after building this hand-washing network, that if there were any conflicts of interest, you would not remove the conflict of interest, but change the law; because you have learned this, and you teach the Hungarians this, and through the Prime Minister - it's okay, the lawyers will come, share a good day. This world will end someday, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-29-150	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President will have a rejoinder. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2017-05-29-151	Well, please, the children of the Attorney General can't get a job in Hungary on that basis, because the prosecution is competent everywhere. Then you should be working outside the country. I think it's not normal. The other thing is, you have a family, you have a child. You are Members of Parliament, you are responsible for this country, and your children would not be able to work in the country, if necessary. [[16.40]] If you don't give it to me, God, we're here, and I don't understand that there's a 20-year-old who wants to go to law school, she decided that she should go to an institution with a professional reputation, and I started at the National Bank 15 years ago. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And I chose this because it's a good reputation. So all I'm asking is that we respect the choice of a young beginner, and that we wish his work good luck - okay? [[Depletion in the lines of the LMP.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-29-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Don't fight, act!" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-05-29-153	Mr President, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister next week.
u2017-05-29-154	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-05-29-155	I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-05-29-156	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person. [[György Szilágyi: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Csepel can breathe, for one of the most capable geniuses of our time, Fidesz's frigate warrior, the party's fists [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] , Szilárd Németh's sacrifice against various non-government foundations has been successful, and from now on he is personally the guarantee that everything will be all right in this area. Allow me to quote Szilárd Németh, he said here in Parliament: it is not okay that the municipality of Csepel has no insight that there, i.e. in the foundations, what is happening, what contract, who is paid, how many people are working in this system, I think that we cannot keep it up, and I feel that this is an unsustainable state, he said 2015. CHAPTER VI on the 17th of the month. But then it turned out that there were bad foundations and good foundations. For example, Csepel SC's sports foundation is a good foundation, such as the Hungarian Birkózó Academy Foundation, which is registered to Szilárd Németh's residence. The Hungarian Birkózó Academy Foundation, which receives two billion forints of public money for the construction of a multifunctional hall, carries out the investment, will be owned by the private foundation, the decisions of which will not be affected by the local government of Csepel, the Wrestling Association or the Hungarian State. This leaves two billion forints of public money and the facility that determines the whole sport to private individuals. Lenárd Borbély said that Szilárd Németh's person is the guarantee that the investment and the hall will be in good hands. That's quite a guarantee, I can tell you. We have a question about that. Why is it necessary to carry out a public investment through a private foundation or to own the completed hall? Why don't you stay state-owned and go to the Wrestling Federation for free? Do you not find it incompatible that the same natural person is the founder of the foundation and the head of the Wrestling Alliance, who will be in agreement with each other and who alone will have a great deal of public money? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What guarantees will there be that you will maintain this hall in accordance with the purpose of the private foundation? Because the person of Szilárd Németh [[The president's ringing again.]] non-guarantee...
u2017-05-29-158	Thank you, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-159	... and how do you intend to guarantee that these objectives, which have been set, will be achieved? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-160	Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Minister János Lázár. You have the floor.
u2017-05-29-161	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the opportunity to participate in the debate between my fellow Members on behalf of the Government. [[A statement from Jobbik: These were facts!]] If I may, I would like to begin by saying that my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, can defend himself, does not need the protection of the government or of any member of the government, but... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: But I do care about your money.]] I have listened to you, fellow Members, and I would like to be honored by your listening to me. I just want to say that it is a very serious mistake that many of you have so far done nothing to reduce the fee, gas fee and electricity charged by Hungarian homeowners and voters in Hungary, and they are targeting the person and even calling into account the work of the person who directly contributed to the reduction of the gas fee and the electricity fee in Hungary by 30%. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among other things: Oh, no! The president's ringing the bell.]] I think that when they try to make picnic remarks about our struggles in the matter of overhead, they do not hurt us, but those people who, in great difficulty, have been able to pay their gas and electricity fees, and please do not do that, respect the work that my fellow Member has done in order to reduce the costs. My second point is, I think Csepel deserves to develop. I myself in the government, unlike others, am in favour of those organisations, municipalities and sports associations receiving the funds, or of the foundations assigned to them, which will otherwise use the investment. I am not at all in favour of a large mammoth state organization investing in the athletes for whom the investment is being made. I strongly support the fact that people who represent wrestlers, athletes who are built in the hall [[Dr. István Józsa: Come on...]] participate in all of this [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because it will significantly improve...
u2017-05-29-162	Excuse me, Minister. My fellow Members, please stop this. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Rewind your time!]] The Minister will respond. Please listen to me. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-05-29-163	It's very kind of you to listen to me. I just wanted to say that I think that the participation of sports organisations, foundations and athletes in sports investments, to whom the investment itself is built, is reasonable and useful. And for state aid, the supported and the state is jointly and legally responsible for you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-164	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary, you've been more sensitive to these questions. An argument between two congressmen? We're talking 2,000 million! They're giving this man 2,000 million forints. [[Dr. István Józsa: In recognition of your merits!]] To spend it and build it, public money! We're giving public money to a privately owned foundation, a private foundation. I think that this may be an important step in the rucksack, since this 2,000 million will not be a problem for the state apparatus, saving the public money, let's say, that we should work with. By the way, you're telling me how much you've done for wrestling. You've done a lot, indeed. Csaba Violinist, coup d'états a wrestler to be at the head of the Wrestling Alliance. You've ruined a man who's respected and respected by an entire country. This man is the president of the Wrestling Alliance! But he doesn't even trust the Wrestling Alliance to implement this hall. It's not that Csepelen shouldn't have sports, it's not that Csepelen doesn't have such a good hall, we would support it, but not that Szilárd Németh owns over two billion forints, he should implement it, and then his foundation should own this hall. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-166	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-05-29-167	I have not heard one argument as to why Szilárd Németh should not participate in this investment. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] I have not heard a single argument that the person who runs the sports association, by the way, is a Member of the Parliament of the region, who lives and lives there, why not participate in the development of the municipality of Csepel, the expansion of the Csepel region, the promotion of sport... [[Constant intervention from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you'll excuse me, I'll tell you, but if you're not interested, I won't tell you... [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: I might as well have had it!]] If you will participate in the development of the community in which you live, then you will be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition.]]
u2017-05-29-168	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Fellow Members! Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can you steer without money? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-05-29-169	I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-05-29-170	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Ákos Hadházy, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why is he good in the pit? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[16.50]]
u2017-05-29-171	I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-05-29-172	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Wind Bernadett, representative of LMP... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] Yeah, excuse me. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Details?" It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-173	Thank you very much. We just got some very humorous answers. I hope we get a little more serious this time. I'd like to refer you back to the previous questioning hour. There I asked the Minister how they could hit the University of Public Service precisely that a public procurement would cost HUF 4 515 246 109 - this was precisely hit. The Minister promised to ask about it. I'll thank you if you can answer that now. The other one is connected to this acquisition. I wanted to ask the National University of Public Service what these 17 billion were spent on, because this fact we spoke about the other day is, among other things, quite worrying, and I wanted to ask for the contracts they had concluded. I didn't get it because they said they'd give it to me if I paid 2 million forints. Last week, the Election Committee led by Rector Patyi András canceled my draft referendum question; it would have been about making Paks' contracts public. Imagine how much money they could have made if they were to be made public for such a proportionate amount of money.They asked for 2 million forints, by the time they explained that there were a lot of contracts, it would take a lot of money to copy them. Then I told them to send me the details of these contracts. Send him whom they have appointed; send him when he is appointed, for he is appointed, and for how much. So that's not a lot of data, I was hoping you'd have it in a table; for a 17 billion-dollar contract, I think that should be done. Therefore, the National University of Public Service asked for 900 thousand forints. So this is an EU project. I asked for the basic data of the contract, the university asked for 900 thousand forints. My question is, do you think that this data is available to the university in Excel, who was assigned to a project, what was entrusted to it, when and for how much? That's the question: do you have it or do you have it? Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-174	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-29-175	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reply to my fellow Member Hadházy that, of course, all beneficiaries are obliged to account for the amount of domestic or European Union aid they receive. It is also the responsibility of the University of Public Service. After his last speech, I ordered an inquiry into the application of the University of Public Service and the investment carried out. This is in the process, and I will inform you in writing, without delay, of this after the investigation has been concluded. I have tried to check what you have said so far in the public procurement notices and notices, as the procedure raises a number of questions for me too. I'll wait until the investigation is over, and I'll let you know. Just like I ordered an investigation into Kistelek, and I'll give you detailed information about the investigation there. Otherwise, of course, all documentation must be available at the University of Public Service, as all beneficiaries have an obligation to keep documents. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-176	I thank the Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-05-29-177	Thank you very much, Minister. It's hard to say, but it's a correct answer; then, of course, the results of the investigation will be what makes me really curious. In any case, I will answer the rector, or I will reply that we may have already sent the letter that if they cannot find these documents, I will be very happy to go in and see them. But again, asking for 900 thousand forints to give the basic data of the contracts is nonsense. I very much hope that if the Minister is serious about this, too, that this may not be the right thing to do, he will find the Rector and there will be consequences for this impertinence, because the Rector is quite impertinent in this story. Thank you.
u2017-05-29-178	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-05-29-179	I must protect the Rector so much that I do not think he is impertinent, I have never experienced this in his case. A highly respected teacher who, I think, runs the university well, at the same time owes him the responsibility of accounting. I think that if the university has nothing to fear and has nothing to hide, then the university should also inform you directly and correctly rather than wait for the results of my investigation. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-180	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Csizi, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How long will the European Union tolerate terrorists from terrorizing Europe? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister for his answer in person. [[On the sign of Péter Csizi:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Paris, Brussels, Nice, Berlin, Stockholm, London - Europe's well-known metropolises, which, unfortunately, have been very different in recent times, not their built environment, but their dominant role, but terrorist acts. In the last year and a half, there has been almost no month in Europe without a terrorist attack or a terrorist act. In these cities I have listed, over 400 people have lost their lives in terrorist attacks over the past year and a half. Unfortunately, the threat of Islamist terror in Europe is increasing, not only by a day, but by a straight line. Last week in Manchester, they moved on to another level, when they found a new target, young people, and children - they were the targets, they were the victims. [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér, and Dezső the Believer will be replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] And most of the assassins were all found to be involved in the Islamic State, their fighters or helpers. Today, it is a fact that, using the migration wave, young men of combat training and maturity are coming to Europe who used to serve the Islamic State. They have only one goal to keep Europe in fear, to change European values and Christian values. In view of all this, what the leaders of the European Union are doing is still incomprehensible. It is incomprehensible how these people, the flood of migrants, can be released into the heart of Europe, without knowing where they came from or what they came to Europe for. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you how much longer Brussels will tolerate this to happen in the heart of Europe. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2017-05-29-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I hope that Brussels will not tolerate it for much longer, although the signs do not point to this, and this is not what the signs suggest, so it will not tolerate for long that terrorists are terrorizing Europe, because the serious acts of terrorism you have listed and the recent terrorist attack in Manchester prove that migration and terrorism are at hand. This is unacceptable, and it would therefore be appropriate to take strong action. For example, with regard to the protection of borders, it would be important for the European Union to require all Member States to protect the Schengen external borders and not to allow any illegal immigrants to enter without being able to prove their identity. And I would like to say that Hungary has taken important steps in the last nearly two years to protect Hungarian people and to protect Hungary's security. Although there is no 100% security, we can say that our preventive measures and efforts so far have been effective and that the Hungarian people are safe. Hungary is in a better position than the Western European countries, as by reducing illegal migration, there is less chance that people can enter the country who can carry out terrorist acts. The Government of Hungary continues to regard the security of Hungarian people and the protection of borders as one of its most important tasks, and we want the Hungarian people to be able to decide who they want to live with and who they do not want to live with. The Manchester assassination also proves that the terrorist threat in Europe has not been reduced. What the Hungarian Government has demonstrated since the outbreak of the migration crisis has consistently been represented and action must be taken [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to combat illegal migration, to protect borders, to protect people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2017-05-29-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue with the immediate questions. For a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Péter Csizi has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I guess we'll agree that we're in a lucky position. We are in a lucky position because we know ourselves safe, because the government's rapid and decisive steps are virtually not or very little allowing people who are a potential threat to Europe, who may even arrive with the aim of carrying out terrorist acts. It would be good for Brussels policy to have the same objective in mind, take into account and restore the safety and security of Europe and the people of Europe. It is important for the Hungarian government to stand up for its security policy despite all the attacks and, despite all the pressure from Brussels, to strengthen the borders, and in the same way that Hungary will remain one of the safest countries in Europe in the future.
u2017-05-29-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The attack in Manchester is also an example, an example for us, of the need to pay particular attention to the security and security of events, of mass events that attract large numbers of people, and of young people and young people in particular - this attack in Manchester proves this to the terrorists. But in Hungary there will be several events in the summer, such as the Sziget Festival or the Győr Youth Olympics, which are expected to be attended by thousands and tens of thousands of young people. The police and all law enforcement agencies will pay particular attention to these events, I can promise you that. During last year's Sziget Festival, the Budapest Police Headquarters' bodies were present with the right forces and tools at the event and around the event. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much. I would also like to say that it is very important that these events, where a large number of young people are involved, are given priority by law enforcement bodies. We're gonna do this. Thank you very much, and I apologize. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What justified the immediate firing of the President of the Trade Union of Electrical Energy Workers? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member, notary, whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2017-05-29-189	I'll take it.
u2017-05-29-190	Thank you very much. You have the floor, please.
u2017-05-29-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unprecedented, although your everyday actions and behavior are consistent with what has happened, it represents what has happened. They create a self-indulgently, arrogantly situation where they intimidate or, if necessary, make it impossible, if necessary, to remove. That's about your philosophy. An attack on trade unions can take into account all that has happened, since the termination of employment with immediate effect is practically when? In the period of wage negotiations, in the midst of collecting signatures. The responsibility lies with the employer, the employer and, of course, the owners. Trade unions are initiating negotiations, and you can see the result: none. The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is clear. We support the union, we support the demands and the rights of workers that people have. This should be enforced. What's Fidesz doing? It basically eliminates workers by lawmaking. Remember the termination of the OÉT in one month, the 2012 Labour Code, the abolition of the strike law, virtually no chance of weakening OSH or safety at work. Mr. Secretary. Why was the union president's employment terminated during the wage negotiations? If you stand up for people, why are you punishing them? Why are trade unions not considered partners, partners to be negotiated with and not impossible? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State János Fónagy responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-193	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My honourable fellow Member and distinguished Fractional Fellows! You said it yourself: the owner is responsible for these things. I would like to inform you that Tatabányai Erőmű Kft. is not subject to the direct or indirect exercise of ownership rights of the Ministry of National Development, in most cases it is owned by a municipality and in some cases it has private owners. Thus, answering the question in the absence of knowledge does not fall within the remit of the Ministry of Development or of the Government. For the record, we have also initiated the rejection of your similar interpellation by reference to this. However, if you have already raised the question: according to the information provided by MNV, Tatabányai Erőmű Kft. is the president of the Interest Protection Trade Union of Electrical Energy Workers. he had an employer, which is not a member of the MVM group, and therefore we do not have any substantive information on the termination of the trade union president's employment. We also do not have any link between the termination of employment and your assumption that the minimum wage increases initiated by the NFM and the minimum wage increases are supposed to exist. At 251 companies subject to public supervision, owned by the state, I led these negotiations and personally negotiated with dozens of trade unions and their various cooperations. So please ask your question to the owner if you have the opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of notary Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-195	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. I want you to see what's going on around you. Notice who personally owns this company, so to speak, its leader. Notice your relationship, let's say, with today's leadership of Tatabánya, with whom you have a close relationship. See the context, or if you can't see it, ask for help. I'd be happy to help you with that. It doesn't matter to you whether it's Ferenc Kovács in Tatabánya, or anyone else in Miskolc, it doesn't matter to you whether it's a representative of interest before retirement or at the top of the active age, it doesn't matter. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It doesn't matter to you. The only thing that matters to you is that if someone is acting for the good of the people and it doesn't match your imagined interests, because you can't make money out of it, you have to fire them, it's over. Unprecedented, unprecedented, arbitrary, arrogant, what you do to employees! You don't care about the man, you only care about the power, you don't even care about the peace of work. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-196	Thank you very much. János Fónagy, Secretary of State, has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2017-05-29-197	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, All I see is that your political malice prevents you from knowing the facts. We don't own it, we don't know it. [[Nándor Gúr and Dr. István Józsa intervene several times. The president's ringing the bell.]] And with the 251 companies that we raised 151 thousand employees, we were negotiating with the trade union of those companies. The trade unions won't talk to you. [[Dr. István Józsa: How do you know?]] Please, it's not my fault. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, 'Is it now just propaganda or is it really the world's biggest criminal?' It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. With all due respect, Congressman, do you accept the person who is responding? [[Adam Mirkóczki: Yes.]] Congressman says he'll take it. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki has the floor. Here you go. [[17.10]]
u2017-05-29-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is a man who is a phantom to the majority of society, a demon to you, a man who is essentially one person and the number one responsible for almost anything bad that is happening in Hungary, according to your communication, propaganda. [[István Szilárd Németh: KáGéBéla!]] This man is called György Soros, and I would add quickly that very few factions could be found further away from the ideology of György Soros, his public work, his politics, and we cannot support or identify with him at the minimum level. Yes! If this man has committed so much mischief as you say, then it is right to ask what is being done against him and his person so that he cannot do it. If someone has been following your political forums, your revelations, or simply public communications and your commercial broadcasts in recent weeks, then you should think that this is the man who should be condemned at the first opportunity, he should be arrested. To commemorate just a few things, according to Lajos Kósa, the agents of György Soros control the European Union and many domestic institutions. According to Antal Rogán, György Soros wants to break down the fence illegally. According to Viktor Orbán, this man is a billionaire who is determined to do everything and knows neither God nor man. Lately, maybe a few weeks ago, VIII. In the district, Szilárd Németh and István Stefka had a joint forum for a national consultation, and it turned out that Soros studied directly from Hitler, worked for him, and that his agents also infiltrated the Hungarian Post Office and committed various sabotages there. Joke aside: if that's the case, is the legitimate question that we're really dealing with a criminal this serious, or is it just a propaganda device in your hands? What have you done to keep this man out of prison? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-29-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-29-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to remind you, honourable Member, that you also raised this issue at the meeting of the National Assembly Defence and Police Committee on 25 May 2017. In your public session, I would like to quote in a fair and fair manner your speech regarding the person you mentioned. He asked why we wouldn't ban him and prosecute him. That's what you asked, isn't it, Congressman, from Interior Minister Sándor Pintér? [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's right.]] Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér briefed you at the meeting of the committee, which I can now confirm is that only press reports have been published in the Soros case, and no report has been received from the Hungarian police. The Minister also said that he informed you and the Honourable Committee that, under the Fundamental Law, his ban is impossible; this man is a Hungarian citizen, so he cannot be banned from Hungary. The government doesn't think about that. What crime has been committed or what has been done by the government or the Hungarian law enforcement authorities in this regard? We have told you, Minister, and I will tell you that there has been no criminal complaint concerning the activities of György Soros. György Soros, as has been said, as you have quoted, attacks Hungary, the Hungarian government, on numerous international forums, and György Soros uses all the tools to destroy Hungary and harm Hungary. We will take political action against George Soros. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-203	Dear Secretary of State, The reason I brought this up again is because I've been watching your statements this weekend, and they're putting total crimes on this man's neck. The only question is why they don't do anything about it. I take advantage of the suspicion lawsuit that this is only a propaganda tool that can scare Hungarian society and give one-by-one answers to all serious and truly serious problems; be a man who can be persecuted as a demon. I would like to stress that in many countries this man has also been banned within the European Union. The real question is, if he really does what you say... And I'm not referring to press coverage, because then I should have quoted TV2's fact show, who said he was trying to kill his mother directly, so this man is set up. But I'm quoting your politicians and members of the government who are accusing this man of complete crime. But if that's the case, then the big question is, why hasn't it come from you who claim these crimes, to report it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-29-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the laws are binding on everyone, no one is above the law. Anyone who violates the law must bear the consequences of breaking the law. That's what I can answer your question. If, in this case, in the case of the person you are asking, such an act will occur and this constitutes an infringement, it must bear its consequences. Because once again, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the rule of law prevails. This applies to everyone, to all Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-206	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, MEP László Földi, representative of KDNP, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What does the government do to encourage digital development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Ákos Kara to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask you, Mr. Notary, whether you will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2017-05-29-207	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-05-29-208	You'll take it, thank you very much. Congressman László Földi has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It has now become a fundamental criterion that it is essential for a successful company to build and operate an appropriate quality IT background. Small and medium-sized enterprises as key players in domestic economic life must also be able to take advantage of the potential of digitalisation that has become decisive in Hungarian economic life. The digital transformation of the SME sector is therefore strategically important, and we must also support and develop digitalisation of traditional industries in both technical and mental terms. Dear Secretary of State, Several measures have already been taken to support the development of SMEs in recent years. In addition to grants, we reduced corporate tax, employer's contributions, small company tax, and increased the income limit for the tax exemption. They all reduce entrepreneurship and contribute to simplifying administration. In addition to the general improvement of operating conditions, we need to help SMEs operate through support and tendering programmes. For example, I would like to refer to the programme of information communication, motivation and approach development launched in 2016 by the Digital Prosperity Programme or the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which is the programme of modern enterprises - Entrepreneur yourself digitally! It is the title of which almost ten thousand businesses have joined. That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State: what is the government doing to encourage digital development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary? What kind of financial support does it provide and what programmes does it finance? By what additional means does the government increase the competitiveness of businesses? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-29-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State Ákos Kara responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-29-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, The focus of government action is indeed on economic development in traditional economic areas and digitalisation, as both the present and the future are about digitalisation in the economy. Economic development and growing competition are facing growing challenges for Hungarian businesses. Today, the proper IT background is essential for the successful operation of a company, and daily operation of proper infocommunication applications is essential. Without it, we can't talk about corporate efficiency. The government has therefore launched several support schemes in the framework of economic development, where Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are jointly supported by domestic and EU funds. [[17.20]] In terms of digitalisation, the total amount of HUF 60 billion in infocommunication is currently available from domestic and EU sources. I believe that this is a huge, significant and necessary support in this situation. I also think that the Hungarian government is not following European trends in this respect, but is at the forefront. So I think that its intention is for the government and its determined goal for the government to help Hungarian businesses, whether they are micro, small or medium-sized, among the best in Europe. We plan to create a venture capital fund in the coming months to increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. The planned amount of this is a $10 billion framework. According to the Hungarian Government's intentions, these resources will be used well and efficiently to significantly improve the competitiveness of not only businesses but also the country. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to MEP László Földi, notary.
u2017-05-29-213	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I also asked this question because in the constituency from which I come to the House, there are no large companies, there are actually small and medium-sized enterprises or micro-enterprises. And for example, information technology plays a prominent role in businesses in this region, because if they cannot build this well and obtain adequate resources in this regard, they will certainly suffer from a loss of competitiveness and are unable to compete. That is why it is welcome for me - and obviously for small and medium-sized enterprises - that the government supports these businesses from EU and domestic sources with a great deal of money, some HUF 60 billion. And I trust that these small and medium-sized enterprises will not only be at the forefront of Hungary but also of Europe. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll even give Mr. Secretary of State a minute of rejoinder. I give you the floor, please.
u2017-05-29-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If you will allow me, I would briefly refer to the environment, which, in terms of infocommunication, not only helps SMEs, so not only the economy, but also the general public. I would like to point out that we are doing well with our broadband Internet programme, which is where we aim to make the super-fast internet available to about one million households. We have launched an engineering program in which Hungary will have more IT experts. I think it's a general need. And I would like to refer to what you said, Mr President, that we are implementing a successful programme with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in which the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has really been able to address nearly 10,000 businesses so far. I think that this is an important, significant step, and I think that the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is a fair and good cooperative partner for Hungarian businesses. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your question. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, head of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:, How do you intend to keep the greedy Fidesz Moonyard away from the Paks expansion? It's an address. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2017-05-29-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, You spend the Paks money as if it were a referendum, but you're trying to stop the referendum by all means. However, we have decided to scan the Paks spending as much as we can, because we have requested various media and advertising spendings in the context of public interest data requests and we have seen shocking things. I have to start there so that I don't talk in riddles, that it seems that the Hungarian Electricity and Paks II. Zrt. Apparently, you're only trying to sell electricity to right-wing consumers, because you're almost only advertising in the right-wing pro-government press. The two companies left more than half of last year's and this year's advertising spending on the billion-dollar scale with six confidants of Viktor Orbán: Lőrinc Mészáros, Árpád Habony, Andy Vajna, Gábor Liszkay, Csaba Csetényi and Gábor Wide. And what they see behind me [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy presents a large board with an inscription "Paks2 Network" on which smaller portraits can be seen next to a large Putin portrait, under each of them the name of the person represented and a sum: Árpád Habony 1.315.561.064.--; Csaba Csetényi 481.041.975.--; Andy Vajna 324.243.192; Gergely Huth 206.732.929.--; Gábor Liszkay 200.996.490.--; Lőrinc Mészáros 178.551.089---; Tamás Szemerey 166.936.567.--; András Bencsik 121.918,000.--; Gábor Wide 119.848,816.-.]] the aggregate spending of the three paying agencies. We see that more than HUF 4 billion has been spent on advertising [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] , and various media ads...
u2017-05-29-218	Madam Head of Fraction, I would like to inform you that you belong to your faction and that the discipline of the faction is decisive for you, because you are the leader of the faction, that Congressman Ákos Hadházy is using a forbidden illustration in this House. Because the house rules are 38/A. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act, it must be notified in advance. This did not happen at least an hour before the beginning of the meeting, and I will inform Mr Speaker accordingly, which is the task of the chairman. And I'm asking you to remove this forbidden device. Thank you. Now, go on.
u2017-05-29-219	Thank you for giving me my voice back. Then be kind enough to make up for the time, because I would like to discuss my two minutes in accordance with democratic rules.
u2017-05-29-220	It's coming from you!
u2017-05-29-221	They spent 4 billion HUF 378 million from three places, MVM, Paks II. From Zrt. and the Nuclear Power Plant for media advertising spending and a small advisory fee. And here you can see the top 9 interests [[He's showing it on the board.]] Those who might have received these tax dollars. There is Árpád Habony, who received more than one billion; Csaba Csetényi 481 million; Andy Vajna through his interests 324 million; Gergely Huth 206 million; Gábor Liszkay's interest 200 million; Lőrinc Mészáros 178; Tamás Szemerey, right, cousin of György Matolcsy, 167 million; András Bencsik 122 million; and Gábor Wide was thicker by paying tribute to taxpayers in this country by HUF 120 million. But we do have a government that refuses to spend these money with honor. Dear Minister, Let me ask you, what is the point of advertising in an area where you do not want to hear the opinion of the people at all, you simply ignore it - although the Deputy Secretary of State may also interpret this question to you [[John Lázár speaks with Nándor Csepreghy.]] but I am speaking to you, Minister - that two thirds of Hungarians do not want the Paks expansion in Hungary at all. What's the point of advertising if you don't want to know what two thirds of people in Hungary want? [[A round of applause from the independents behind Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-222	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Head of the Group that Nándor Csepreghy is Deputy Minister and State Secretary. It's a good thing you're getting that information about your role in the government. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] I give the floor to Minister John Lázár. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-223	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Congresswoman, Until 2 May, the Prime Minister's Office exercised ownership rights in Paks II. over the project company and spent HUF 70 million in 2016 and 17 at Paks II. project company for any press activity related to the maintenance of Paks Nuclear Power Plant capacity. Where he got all the rest or where he dreamed, I don't know, I can't make a statement in that. However, I must reassure you, Congresswoman, that, contrary to your statement on the question raised, we do not share any investment with anyone anywhere, given that the Hungarian State has concluded the contract with Russia in a form approved by the European Commission, in accordance with domestic and international rules, by Rosatom, at a fixed price, with a specific deadline. Contact them with all your questions of this type. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-224	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction.
u2017-05-29-225	Dear Minister, [[He's showing me the board.]] I'd like you to...
u2017-05-29-226	And again, I'm asking you to put it down, because you're gonna drop it!
u2017-05-29-227	But the Minister doesn't answer, and I'd like to tell him that you have to answer.
u2017-05-29-228	Don't argue with me, just say what you can do in a minute.
u2017-05-29-229	Okay, here's the thing about that one minute. Dear Minister, Here you can see this rahedli tax forint, over 4 billion forints you have adored on the government. Don't get up and tell me to wash your hands because you can't help what the government is doing. The corrupt... I almost told you it was a corruption account, but you're on the government account and you answer the questions. Why are you running away from answering now? From Andy Vajna to Gábor Wide, everyone here gets rich on taxpayers' money, you pick up your salary, you come in here to work, and then you don't tell me what's the point of all this? Then answer from your own wellhead. If there is an investment that nobody is asked about, and there are a lot of oligarchs who are eating taxpayers' money behind the government's back, then what does a Hungarian minister say is the point of feeding these oligarchs if you don't care what the Hungarian people think about the investment in Paks? Or be brave and say a referendum on Paks II. Choose: either answer or say referendum on Paks II!
u2017-05-29-230	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-29-231	Thank you so much for the opportunity. I would take the third way: I am trying to inform the congresswoman factually. I'm very sorry that you're so excited about the facts. All I can tell you, Congresswoman, is that there must be a lot to talk about in the information you have. I can assure you that the Hungarian Electricity Works, Paks I. Nuclear Power Plant, did not spend a penny on Paks II. to promote it. So these numbers may have something to do with media spending, but the fact that they have nothing to do with Paks II, I can tell you that. As for accountability, how the investment will be carried out: I will say again, as I have said many times, and I intend to continue to tell you in the future that if the LMP faction succeeds in understanding that this is a fixed price and ready-to-key nuclear power plant. That my Rosatom [[Ádám Mirkóczki: General construction.]] as a general contractor with whom he enters into a contract and how, this should be asked by him and the European Commission [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] since everything will be in line with European public procurement rules, as far as domestic and international law is concerned. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-232	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What do households owe to the Home Gay Program? It's an address. Minister Zsolt Szabó has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask Congressman whether he accepts the person of the response, or Minister... [[17 .30]]
u2017-05-29-233	Of course. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-234	Thank you very much. Szilárd Németh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-235	Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The cost reduction has been a very complex process over the past period. As of 2013, the government has exercised its right to supply nearly 4 million households in the framework of the universal service to determine the consumer prices of gas, district heating and electricity. Thus, people today have an average of 25 percent cheaper access to this energy, and thanks to these three measures, families save 140 thousand forints per year on average in terms of overhead costs, i.e. 140 thousand forints per month. In this context, as of 2014, when the government had another opportunity to reduce its costs, it brought other types of measures to the people in another area, the so-called "Home Gay" programme. The first such a long wait was the replacement of household appliances, and then the modernization of the apartment. In these programs, between 180 and 200 thousand forints a year - if anyone could use this whole package and there are a lot of them - could be saved. The government is still ready to launch these programs. In the summer you will be able to apply for the replacement of gas sets, the replacement of large household appliances, and the so-called home modernisation and heating upgrade program. I only said that because this whole complex programme is under threat from Brussels. He threatens to take away the right to set prices from the country, and even the application of Article 7 would mean that they would suspend not only our voting rights, but also certain resources, which we can spend very effectively in this area and in the interests of Hungarian families, would be withdrawn from us. I ask Mr Secretary of State what the government will do to ensure that this does not happen.
u2017-05-29-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Zsolt Szabó responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-29-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's aim is to help all Hungarian families either with the family tax system, home-building support or with the tax reduction itself. This help and support is also part of the program "Home Gay" program, which aims to reduce the amount of energy used in every family to a large extent. From 2014 until 2016, we helped more than 120,000 families, with more than HUF 22 billion of domestic funds, i.e. the financial instrument created as part of the savings from the CO2 quota. If we translated it, we could say that we were able to save the annual electricity consumption of some 66 thousand four-member families. This year we will continue this program worth about HUF 5.6 billion. A program has already been published, which was set in March, and we would like to help replace gas boilers with condensing boilers with HUF 3.5 billion, while also providing chimney construction facilities, which are the first to occur in this program. This value is HUF 700 thousand and represents an aid intensity of about 40 per cent. You can apply for this on June 6th at 8:00 a.m. The other one, which was also published on 10 May, was worth 600 million HUF, whether it was a cooling machine or a washing machine exchange program, worth 25-45 thousand HUF. The date of submission will be August.
u2017-05-29-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Szilárd Németh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-239	Thank you very much. I think it is very important that, in the summer, all of these programmes, whether the heating modernisation programme or the replacement of gas appliances, or the large household appliances programme, are involved, because it is clear that there are several kinds of threats, and I would like to stress it once again, and I think that we need to do what we can. We must therefore not only protest in Brussels, we must act not only on the basis of the outcome of the national consultation, but also on the basis of the budget for 2017 or 2018 but also on the basis of the planned amounts, which must be used as efficiently and as quickly as possible and sent to the public. In fact, I would urge Mr Secretary of State not to stop here, but to give us the opportunity to do so during the autumn. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the autumn Parliament meeting, let us launch more of these programmes. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-241	Honourable Congressman, Just from your point of view or at the start of the process, the government is planning to launch a tender for the replacement of outdated gas convectors with a budget of more than HUF 1.5 billion and an intensity of at least 80 per cent; considering that we can make great progress both in terms of emissions and in terms of energy, as there are a lot of gas convectors operating in the last 30-40 years, and we are talking about outdated old technology devices. These grants are expected to be available in July - we can save up to 20,000 forints for household appliances and complexly more than 200,000 forints/family. We will continue to look at the possibility of launching further proposals, and we would like to issue more after these proposals have been cleared. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-05-29-242	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:37 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. Mr János Volner, Head of the Group of Jobbik, applied for a point of order. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-05-29-243	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the part of one of our fellow Members with Fidesz, statements have been made that might legitimately violate the religious sensitivity of many millions or even hundreds of millions. I think that people can respect God throughout the earth according to different traditions, we in Europe typically do it on the basis of Christian tradition, and others, hundreds of millions of people in the world do it according to the traditions of Islam. That is why I consider it a very serious mistake and what my fellow Member from Fidesz said to be corrected by Parliament as a very serious error. He called the people who committed these acts of terror Islam. Hundreds of millions of Islamians have every right to view these statements as offensive to themselves. Here I would like to say to my fellow Members that if someone is holding sex slaves, like Boko Haram, who has been interpreted as an organization following Islamist ideology, is doing if he is holding sex slaves, as is done by ISIS, he is doing things that are deeply in violation of the spirit of Islam and are rightly asked for by Islamic supporters. They are also rightly asked to be clearly identified with terrorists. This is about as offensive to them as it is to us to say that the Inquisition characterizes our religion. I give this example because it may make it more noticeable why these statements are offensive. I ask my fellow members of government that those who, by the way, violate the religious standards of Islam so harshly, should never be called Islamic believers in this Parliament, because that is not what this is about, but a man's mask that behaves like an animal and rages in Europe. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2017-05-29-244	Thank you very much. I think that there is no need to open a debate on this subject, and I am sure that you agree with this, too, Mr Group Leader. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Mr István Németh Szilárd, Member of the Fidesz Group, has also applied for a point of order. Here you go. [[17.40]]
u2017-05-29-245	Thank you very much. I only pressed the order of business button, because I would like to ask for a comment on the subject of personal involvement.
u2017-05-29-246	Here you go.
u2017-05-29-247	Thank you very much. I think that my fellow Member György Szilágyi spoke in a very sly and cowardly manner on the subject in which he spoke, but he allowed me to be involved and tried to frame me with lies, but he also involved the municipality of Csepel, Mayor Lénárd Borbély, the Hungarian Wrestling Federation and Hungarian wrestlers, and I believe that he offended them by, among other things, the fact that at the assembly where the change of president took place, there was a coup. I would like to add so much to this story, as I do not have the opportunity to tell the whole story here in Parliament, on Wednesday at 13 a.m., the Hungarian Wrestling Association will hold a press conference at the site of the Hungarian Wrestling Academy. I respectfully expect all the press representatives to do so, and I will answer all the questions there, and I will deny all the lies. On the other hand, György Szilágyi could consult Dóra Dúró, Chairman of the Cultural Committee, who invited me to the Cultural Committee meeting on this subject, and I also felt very honoured by the wrestlers, and I will attend the committee meeting and report on the subject in which the Parliament horseshoe was lied here. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-248	Thank you very much. I do not think I will open a debate on this matter either, and I will end it. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the Russian disinformation activity against Western democracies H/14821. Proposal for inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Dear Parliament, First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Bernadett Szél, the rapporteur of the proposal for a decision, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Madam Group Leader.
u2017-05-29-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the 24th Congress of the European People's Party held in Malta in April 2017, not so long ago, the European People's Party adopted a very good resolution. This highlighted the urgency of taking action against the Russian disinformation activity undermining European democracies. Although LMP, in many areas, has a different opinion than the European People's Party, we can accept and support this proposal for a resolution by 100 percent, and we are particularly pleased that the resolution was supported in many respects by Fidesz on the part of the People's Party. In fact, we worked under the hands of Fidesz, or at least we thought that we were doing this, because we translated the resolution adopted there from letter to letter into Hungarian and submitted it to the Hungarian Parliament. We have not changed a single word of the proposal adopted and supported by Fidesz, we have not set a trap, we have only one goal: that what Fidesz has supported at EU level, it will also do at home. Moreover, I think that it is very difficult to argue with the text of this resolution, because it would be difficult to have Russia actually use the tools of information warfare, and it would also be difficult to have it taken away that its primary objective is to break up the unity of NATO and the European Union. It is also difficult to find, I think, that the decision proposes that the Union defend itself against the attempt to influence externally and better coordinate the actions taken by individual Member States in this regard. I think that even in an illiberal democracy it would be difficult to argue that the most independent and credible press can protect people against false news and disinformation. I think that, from the point of view of Fidesz, it is extremely difficult to argue with the fact that there would be greater transparency among NGOs, lobbyists and various civil society organisations in particular in relation to funding. In fact, we hear this from Fidesz several dozen times a day, let us say that it is true that it is not exactly about the organisations that spread Russian propaganda. And here comes our big shock, we brought in this resolution proposal, didn't we, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed it, and Fidesz has already voted against itself at committee level, which is what was voted beyond Hegyeshal, and it was voted down nicely in Budapest. Now, in my view, they have acknowledged that it has nothing to do with what Fidesz says in the European Union or even in the European People's Party, or more precisely, lies and what it does at home. What they have accepted in the People's Party is simply not going to do at home, and they lie about it abroad, lie about it in the Union, and lie about it to their own party family, the People's Party. On the other hand, it has also shown from this story that they are not even willing to take action against the Russian disinformation intervention at the level of the principled commitment. So this is already an obstacle to the level of principle in order to clarify this situation in Hungary, to protect Hungarian citizens from Russian disinformation. However, if we look around the world, it is not difficult to see that it is a real and serious risk and that each Member State of the European Union must face these objections. I can't help but think that, unfortunately, Fidesz doesn't care about Russian information warfare at all, because they know that it will serve their interests, and we are curious to see that someone with the Yandex code can explain something sane around the government's house, as opposed to what they've done so far, that they simply fought back. And we will not give up hope, and we will continue to try our best to ensure that Fidesz pursues a consistent policy in Hungary, or at least give the Fidesz MEPs the opportunity to press a button on this resolution proposal that their conscience, if any, dictates, or they will do so in obedience to party discipline, and they will vote against what they voted for in Malta at home. So, living with our rights and opportunities under house rules, we have asked this proposal to vote in plenary so that some Fidesz members of the Judicial Committee do not have to bear the responsibility for this. We would like each of the Fidesz Members to decide for themselves whether, on the one hand, he feels a real threat to attempts to intervene in a foreign state and, on the other hand, whether he supports that his own party pursues a consistent policy and that what they vote for in the People's Party in the Union is also supported at home. And, of course, the opportunity will be open to all other Members of the Parliament to press "yes" to this proposal, and there will be a progressive proposal for a resolution in Hungary on how we can protect Hungary, Hungarian democracy and Hungarian citizens against the unpure aspirations of a world power at all. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi applauds.]]
u2017-05-29-250	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. Accordingly, I give the floor first to Member Márton Gyöngyösi of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At the parliamentary decision proposal initiated by the LMP, I understand the genre of humor, the gheg and the political fritz, and I think that LMP is trying to embarrass the Fidesz, because Fidesz is known to pursue a wind cock policy for Russia; it provides an abundant basis for forcing it into a difficult situation with such freckles, since it is well known that in the period 2007-2008 Viktor Orbán and Fidesz had a policy of Russia. And perhaps we should put it mildly when we say that we see some inconsistencies between their policies at that time and their current policies in Russia. There are several worrying signs, as the representative mentioned, that the Yandex code on the national consultation website does not really strengthen confidence. Similarly, it can be concluded that there is a legitimate claim that transparency should be established with regard to NGOs, lobbyists and political parties operating in Hungary, as there is potential for influence. With this, the LMP did not say anything new, as it was referred to in Article 21 (1) (a) of the EEA Agreement. Unfortunately, the operation of information warfare, propaganda, disinformation, secret services is one of the most common forms of warfare in the century. But we also need to establish that this form of warfare, information warfare, is operated very effectively by each great power both in the East and in the West. I would venture that the West will use this tool in our region at least as effective as Russia or any great power in the Orient. We can only hope that the Hungarian secret services and services are in place and defend and defend Hungarian national sovereignty. We must therefore consider this decision to be somewhat unilateral, and we cannot support it, and I will propose to the Jobbik Group that we abstain from voting on this proposal for a resolution. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr Ákos Hadházy is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't really feel the humor in this petition. We thought this very seriously, it was a very serious decision adopted by the representatives of the European People's Party, and Fidesz accepted it, and when we submitted a literal translation of it at home, it did not accept it. I don't find this funny, I find it tragic. I find it extremely sad that we are dealing with such representatives and such a party, because there they have accepted something, and they act as if they see voters as fools, pretending to be the representatives of the European People's Party, but making fools of themselves. I don't find this humorous, but I find it very sad that a governing party makes a fool of itself. [[17.50]] Two conclusions can be drawn from this. On the one hand, they are not interested in the fact that a foreign state wants to influence Hungarian relations, because there is no doubt that Russia is trying to influence Hungarian public life. And the other conclusion is that you can't believe a word they say. We already know this, so obviously we did not need to submit this draft, but it is clear from now on to the members of the European People's Party, the Fidesz European Brothers' Party, that Fidesz is becoming discredited. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Burány is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Looking around the Internet to see Hungary seems to be defenseless against bogus news. Not only do uninformed citizens swallow different fake Facebook news, in Hungary there are such tragic conditions, ladies and gentlemen, that even public television is able to publish false news, the 1st of April jokes that it thinks are true. After all, it was not so long ago that M1 announced to the Hungarian public without blinking that the Czech Republic was going to produce a mother ship. They did not realize that this was a joke on April 1st, and that death was a serious source of news, and that those who watched it anywhere in the country might have taken it seriously. So it can be seen from the first glance that Hungary seems to be defenseless against fake news, but there are still some funny elements in this. However, there are two very important things, and that is counterfeiting. That is a serious matter, and countless fake sites are involved in incitement to hatred, the production of false news about refugees, and the dissemination of false information. What is serious is that the propaganda televisions in Fidesz' hands are able to broadcast false news that, for example, George Soros wanted to kill his mother. That's the kind of news you have to deal with. It is now a national security risk that some of the false news spread in Hungary clearly serves Russian interests. Therefore, honourable House, the MSZP faction supports the inclusion of this proposal for a resolution in the series of subjects. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. As many of the factions did not make themselves known, Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi first came forward from among the independent Members, so she has the opportunity to speak in two minutes. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-29-257	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, This proposal is very witty, especially when you read what it is. The decision of the European People's Party is excellent, great, thought-out, accurate, accurately reflecting the consensus that is now evident in the countries of the European Union, namely that Russia, which has not been technologically able to catch up with the developed world over the last decades, is trying to expand its international influence by resorting to various fraudulent means. These deceitful devices are not tanks, but economic tools, manipulation, energy weapons, propaganda, secret service intervention. We all know that this is the case, and there is no debate on this, and I therefore think it is worth looking at the specific text of this declaration, which was supported by Fidesz in Malta, which states, among other things, that the participating Member States, such as Hungary, are proud and clear about the values of liberal democracy, fundamental human rights, personal freedoms, the rule of law, independent justice, democratic governance. But it also includes, for example, that each Member State, such as the Czech Republic, which is a country like us in Eastern Europe, should take special steps in order to identify and combat disinformation and propaganda. So there are a lot of good examples ahead of us. By the way, Finland has detected that there is such a problem about ten years ago. It is not true that every country in the world takes such steps. France, the US electoral system, has been interfered with by the Russians by means of information, not for the benefit of different malicious states. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Therefore, nothing is more natural than that the Hungarian Parliament must support this proposal, for which I congratulate it in particular. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-258	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask whether the factions that have not yet taken up the opportunity to speak wish to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] They don't want to live. Then I'll ask Mr Bernadett Wind if she wants to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Yes.]] You have a two-minute time frame, Madam Group Leader. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, it's a matter of cowardice that they don't even speak to the debate, not the Fidesz, not the KDNP. It is not enough that they represent someone else at home than abroad, after someone confronts you with reality here in Hungary, they do not speak to the debate. I think it would be worth asking the United States how they feel about the Russians interfering in their presidential campaign, asking how they felt during the process. But ask the Czech Republic, where they are preparing for an election in the autumn, and they have already set up a center within the Ministry of Interior to try to protect the purity of the elections. But I think that in the French presidential campaign, there are also some lessons that Fidesz can learn... [[To Gyula Vantara:]] Don't yell at me, fellow Member. Press the button. You would have had the chance. It is therefore a lesson to Fidesz in how to defend itself against Russian overpowering efforts. Thank you to the MSZP for your support; I would like to tell Jobbik that the XXI. A series of centuries of parties. Who is this danger to the XXI. I wish you a good appetite in the 20th century. Company. Thank you.
u2017-05-29-260	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. With all due respect, I would like to remind you not to lecture anyone about yelling, because you're a great master. [[Defiance.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/14733 amendment of the laws prohibiting public propaganda and creating public publicity for public media spending. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. First, I give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, the author of the bill, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This genre today doesn't seem to make much sense. In Hungary, opposition proposals are swept away by the fact that in most cases a proposal, an amendment proposal or a bill cannot be submitted to Parliament, but there are some options where we can bring this here. Each party has a choice to bring things here that are important on some occasions. We believe that this proposal is essential to the fact that, when we look at whether there is still some democracy in Hungary - it is not certain that there is, but what is still there - it talks about one of the most important problems. There is a question as to whether the next elections, the elections in 2018, will be fair. I believe that this question can already be answered in a very strange way. It is quite objective and clear that they will not be fair. And it is not only about making the vote of Hungarian citizens living abroad, Hungarian citizens working abroad impossible, but also about government propaganda. We've been talking more and more about government propaganda lately, quite rightly. It is a fundamental issue, since it is not a fair choice where the government can push propaganda out of dozens of billions of forints and literally years before the election, while the opposition has a fraction of this money. [[18.00]] Government propaganda is corruption itself, because there are a lot of expressions or a lot of explanations about what we call corruption, but I think one of my favorites is what Minister Varga said, he said that if we buy something unnecessarily and it's very expensive, it's corruption itself. But it's also called stealing. Government propaganda is unnecessary and very expensive. That it is unnecessary, it is not difficult to figure out, because the fact that, say, Hungarian reforms work or not is absolutely unnecessary to propagate; even if they do work, it is unnecessary, but unfortunately, the situation is that they do not work, but it is certainly unnecessary to do so. Government propaganda can bring three pleasures to the governing parties. One is that they can give these money to their own people; the second is that they can feed the media, the media, the newspapers, the TVs, the Internet pages that are dear to their hearts; the third is brainwashing. It can happen to all peoples that if they tell a lie a lot of times, they tell it enough, then there will be temporary ones who believe it. In Hungary, there is only one lie about pro-government propaganda, it is that there is no need to deal with what the opposition is saying, because the opposition is only saying these facts to win the election, and when it wins the election, the refugees will come to millions. That's obviously a lie. Over the last few weeks, the government has submitted a proposal that actually shows that there shouldn't be very outdoor posters. It's obviously a false thing to do. They found out that not only they can post posters, but the opposition can post posters. They didn't like this poster. That is why we have tabled the amendment that we have previously tabled as a separate law, the bill that prohibits pro-government propaganda. Obviously, there may be a place for pro-government advertising, but only if they do not want to influence electoral behaviour, and they do make sense. It's not hard to imagine what kind of commercials these could be. For example, Hungarian public transport could use advertising. There is already some progress, there is much to be done, but there is progress, there is something to promote in order to attract people's attention to the fact that there is a great deal of EU money and generally overpriced, but there has been some improvement in some segments of public transport. Or it could be, that we could promote or promote a healthy lifestyle, and the European Union is giving us a lot of money for it. Of course, it's much more pleasant to steal them from the government than to actually use them. It's the only thing that makes sense. The point of our amendment is that only such propaganda can be involved. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame, as well as the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I don't want to bring what was said at the committee meeting here. You did not appear at this committee meeting, and I would therefore like to mention the professional arguments that we have raised against this bill in just a few words. There are two laws, one in 2009 and one in 2011, which provide for the spending of public funds. On this basis, the Fidesz Group believes that public spending can and should be monitored at the moment. As has been said in the Committee on Budgets, these can be reported every year, both at the time of the budget preparation and after the adoption of the budget, in the discharge law on the implementation report. That's why it doesn't make sense. I will not go into the sentences that you said, because for four minutes you talked about what you did not like about the government's propaganda. If the world you want is realized, then it would probably be commercials like the shoes from the shoe store. I don't think that's necessary at all. A government does have a duty to inform people, and it costs money. So far, all governments have completed this task, regardless of whether it was the same as the then ruling force or the opposition. These spending differences in the accounts were due to the fact that we know precisely that during the Bajna and Gyurcsány period they were not always traceable enough. We believe that, on the basis of both the 2009 and 2011 legislative amendments, this is now possible, and we therefore ask everyone to implement and comply with them. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-264	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Mr Sándor Burány is coming from the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-29-265	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, The MSZP faction will support the inclusion of this bill in the series of subjects. Our position is simply that it is worth supporting any bill that changes the unhealthy media and propaganda conditions in Hungary. My fellow Member, Szűcs, mentioned that there is a danger in Hungary that there is a danger that the shoes will spread from the shoe store to advertisements of the type. I would like to point out that this has actually been achieved, as public utility companies are bombing the media that are dear to them, Fidesz, with this kind of advertising. It would be quite ridiculous if it wasn't clearly intended to pay heavy money in exchange for these crappy ads, and thus keep on a ventilator the various media that fit the Fidesz propaganda. Ladies and Gentlemen, Media conditions are also unhealthy in terms of the fact that there are quite unequal conditions. Fidesz and the government can spend an amazing amount of propaganda; only civil society organisations that are favourable to them can fill the COF with various propaganda goals, for example, as much money as any opposition party's state support in one year. And of course, a significant part of these commercials, these propagandas, they do go in secret, the business part goes in secret, the hotbed of corruption, if not corruption itself. Therefore, this bill, which is a bill with clear objectives in this case, will be supported by the MSZP fraction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-29-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member György Szilágyi asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the LMP proposal. We must agree with the general justifications that bans should be imposed on government and other state propaganda, and that public and public corporate media spending should be made transparent and verifiable on the basis of market data. I mean, what's going on right now? The situation right now is that media empires are being built out of nothing, public money; this is the Habony media. Media literature is being acquired with public money; this means media linked to Andy Vajna. In addition, the current situation distorts the market, as it provides a competitive advantage and a competitive advantage for the media close to Fidesz, destroying other media providing unattractive content. And it also distorts equal opportunities in elections, as Fidesz spends billions of public money in accordance with its own interests and not the country's interests. It is not enough, by the way, for Fidesz to destroy the media and advertising markets almost completely, to put Fidesz in the service of its own interests, even with public money, to support these media, to pay public money to these servile media. Ladies and gentlemen, However they smile at it, it must stop, because whoever accepts this thing, which is something typical of dictatorships, you like it, you like your own dictatorship very much, but you are actively involved in building your own dictatorship, all of you who are here. They're trying to create a dictatorial system where only your party's voice is heard, everyone else needs to be trampled, everyone else needs to be eliminated, and everyone else, you don't think, is even supposed to speak. You're cynical, pompous and arrogant, that's what's gonna kill you. I hope that the voters can see it very well, despite the media overweight that you have in Hungary at the moment. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Bernadett Wind is next from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, it's especially relevant to talk about this right now, because we found out that COFFEE received HUF 508 million from MVM. As many people claim to be close to the government, it's not public money, which, of course, is bullshit. Adding more than half a billion forints to civics and complete meals, I think, is the bottom of everything. [[18.10]] By the way, in my previous speech, I showed myself how 4.4 billion are applauded by MVM, Paks II. project company and the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in various right-wing press, as if they were only selling electricity to right-wing consumers, as if there were no other media. One word, like a hundred, this kind of practice, which is being bred in Hungary today, is fully capable of eliminating the remainder of the freedom of the press. And by the way, I do not understand deeply, my fellow Members, with the points that appear to be professional. We would have very strict conditions for the government, the municipalities and the state companies to know how to advertise and not to advertise. If a public company, let's say, is in competition on the market, so it's not monopolistic, like MVM, if it's a specific service or commodity, then tell me why you think it's better than the other one. But if we wanted to influence the electoral preferences of a voter in a referendum or even in elections, we would say that it is forbidden. Or, for example, we also consider it forbidden to evaluate a government's own work on public money, that is quite nonsense. We remember that between March and November 2013, 792 million forints were applauded for a better performance campaign in Hungary, and the trick was that the government gave Fidesz the full image, the slogan, everything, and then the government joined the commercial televisions to advertise, where parties could not enter. So basically, the Fidesz empire attacked every front, precisely because the government did what the parties weren't allowed to do. By the way, they were not so critical before, they saw the world even better, when before 2006 there was a similar merger between the MSZP and the government in relation to the New Hungary Plan, it was Répássy Róbert and Nyitrai Zsolt who submitted such a proposal from the opposition, Fidesz. Where are you now, ladies and gentlemen? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why don't you support this now? What's changed? The position, the seat point?
u2017-05-29-270	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. As no one has applied for further speeches, I would like to ask Mr Ákos Hadházy if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Time frame's two minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's hard to do that - even though the fidesz commenter is gone [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs standing behind the lines: I'm here, relax!]] - but it's really hard to take this seriously when you start by how important they think it is to make spending, spending money transparent. Just today, I asked Minister how it is that I wanted to know the basic figures of the contracts of 17 billion HUF spent by the National University of Public Service, and therefore the university asked me for 900 thousand HUF. We could give a lot of similar examples of how they try to make it disappear, hide how public money is spent. It's hard enough to be serious when you're talking about all governments making government propaganda. It is difficult to be serious because I have been in this party, in your party, and I know how offended they have been, I must say that we have been insulted, and how badly we resented it when previous governments have spent the same unnecessary, equally harshly, equally unacceptablely on government propaganda, it is true that much, much, much less money is being spent. That little money was a lot of money, but a lot less money went through this government propaganda. Once again, what you are doing in this area is corruption, and when we talk about which cases in the event of a change of government are truly tangible, I think that there are a lot of such cases, there are a lot of parties that will end in criminal prosecution, but the government propaganda is very much so, because, once again, they are buying things that are unnecessary for everyone very, very expensive. Let me mention, for example, that the reforms work and campaign has not even issued open public procurement, in a completely illegal way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We'll be able to hold these, even if they vote it out now. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the declaration of the 2020 Trianon Memorial Year H/14113. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the National Assembly Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament, the author of the proposal for a resolution, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, notary.
u2017-05-29-273	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After 2010, important steps were taken in the area of Hungarian national policy, which strengthened the relations between the mother country and the Hungarian communities abroad. Important steps have been taken which, in recent years and in the previous years, would have been difficult to imagine, let us think of Hungarian citizenship, other symbolic and concrete actions, which, of course, were supported by Jobbik, and even a significant part of which had previously been initiated. There have been few issues that would have been more specific and sharper between the governing parties and Jobbik as regards national policy in principle. Of course, what and how should be resolved, what is necessary to take certain steps, and how decisive they should be, were in this context, and we have criticisms. We have a number of proposals that you have not adopted, but I think there have been few topics in which we did not agree in principle on turning towards Hungarian communities abroad, on caring for Hungarian communities abroad. One such, however, was without a doubt, and it may seem that now will be the second big point, how to judge June 4th. June 4th, 1920, according to our position, is the unparalleled and one of the greatest tragedies in Hungarian history. On June 4, 1920, the peace dictatorship was sanctioned, according to which the history of Hungary, our thousand-year-old country, lost 72 percent of its territory. At that time they sanctioned the peace dictatorship that pushed one third of our nation under foreign, hostile rule. We're approaching a 100-year anniversary, the 100-year anniversary of this date. A few years ago, you decided that Trianon should be remembered as a celebration, and you decided a few years ago that this is the celebration of national solidarity, the House of Hungarians is the holiday! - he sent out an invitation today, or a few days ago, to celebrate the national union. Over the past few years, your representatives have given festive speeches and attended festive events on June 4th. We believe that on this day we have nothing to be happy about, there is nothing to celebrate, 4 June 1920 a historic tragedy, which, of course, outlines tasks for us for the future, we agree on that. And also because we want to look to the future or look to the future, that is why my colleague Gergely Farkas and I have tabled a proposal for a resolution which, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of 4 June 1920, would declare 2020 a Trianon Memorial Year and invite the Government to entrust the preparation and development of a series of programmes to a memorial committee composed of persons appointed by parliamentary factions. We consider it very important to make a consensus proposal, to try to set a national minimum in this regard, and to make as many people as possible feel this memory year. We organize programmes to emphasize and live national cohesion, domestic and international conferences, school events; create monuments, promote tourism in the Carpathian Basin; but we even have such ideas to issue a postmark or commemorative coin. We have tabled a package of proposals, a proposal with my colleague Gergely Farkas, which we consider to be a very broad minimum of negotiation. We would like you to join us in this, if some Members of every parliamentary group would join us in this proposal, if they could come before this House as a joint proposal. We could all discuss together, all of the parliamentary groups, how to set a minimum on 4 June 1920, how to find a national minimum that is acceptable to everyone, which would send the message to the Hungarians living today that the Hungarian Parliament attaches great importance to the issue of Hungarian communities abroad; let us jointly express the message that there are fundamental national goals, such as the support of Hungarian communities in which we can agree. I am very sorry that the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP did not support this proposal, and I am very sorry that you do not agree that I have the right way to remember the anniversary of Trianon in 2020. I hope that there will be one among you who will now present the Group's position on this issue in this place as well. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.20]]
u2017-05-29-274	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Attila Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The Fidesz-KDNP faction is also aware of the importance of the 100th anniversary to all Hungarians, and we are also aware of the dangers it poses especially from the Romanian side. At the committee meeting, at the meeting of the National Assembly Committee, our group or our representatives rejected this proposal, as President Károly Panczél said, because during the autumn we would like to submit a consensus proposal, namely a committee before this House, which deals not only with the events of 1920 but also with events of 18, 19 and 20, referring to each other, and thus more fully examines the history and effects of the events. So we didn't reject the Trianon memorization itself, but the way to look at a larger period here, so that it could be more fully examined. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-29-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Gergely Farkas, Chairman of the Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-277	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, You said that it is clear to all Hungarians why the 100th anniversary of the 1920s before us is important, 2020, but unfortunately that is not the case. That is why it is very important that we start preparing for this anniversary as soon as possible, because unfortunately, to date, we have many of our fellow nations, our countrymen, who do not even know exactly what happened on 4 June 1920, do not even know what the suffering of Hungarians beyond the border has been experienced during this period, in the nearly 100 years that have left behind us, today's problems. Unfortunately, that would have been nice if it had been the way you said it, but unfortunately, we're not. You said that the Fidesz faction did not support this proposal because you want to establish a consensus, but let me ask you why you only imagined consensus when you are initiating something. Can you imagine that we are initiating something that we have laid a foundation on the table with this resolution proposal that can be modified? We don't stick to every single point, either. We're open. As my fellow Member István Szávay said, we would like to create a national minimum. Why are you not open to this proposal that we have put forward as a basis for what we, in our five-party agreement, hope we can accept? If you have any intention of making amendments, do so, we will listen to them, we can discuss them. If you support the inclusion of this proposal in the series, you will only open up an opportunity for us to talk about it here in plenary. So I'm asking you to reconsider this matter, believe me, that consensus can not only be reached on matters that you have initiated. Unfortunately, based on the experience of recent years, we see that it was not a consensus, but an idea that was forced on us or forced on us through Parliament. Now this is an issue that is really important for the nation as a whole. Let us now be open to our proposal, and let us make it this way. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a consensual solution! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask Mr István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go, two minutes.
u2017-05-29-279	Thank you very much. I am very sorry that no representative of the MSZP is in there, that he has contributed to this, or that the LMP is not present, although I would like to say that the representatives of the LMP have already indicated to us that they are in favour of our proposal, even if they have not spoken to us now, which we are thanking them for. Let me continue to answer where my colleague Mr Szabolcs, Mr Gergely Farkas, left off. Only I see otherwise: you do not want a consensus on this matter at all, Congressman. You want to start a war on memory politics. If you want to look at the processes that led to Trianon, what happened between 1918 and 1920 in terms of historical judgment, believe me that we will agree with you to a large extent, but that is not our goal. Our goal is to find a compromise, our goal is to find the point with which we can all agree here in Parliament, so that this Trianon Memorial Year really is about Hungarian communities abroad, to remember what has happened in the last hundred years, and to determine together what joint tasks Hungarian politics, the Hungarian Parliament at all times, have in common, what obligations it has to do with Hungarians from abroad. If you want to talk about it and start a series of programmes that will be about the road to Trianon, we will agree, whether in the impatient Hungarian ethnic policy or in the role of Mihály Károlyi or in the role of communists in this matter. They will probably agree with us on this, but many of you will not agree on this issue. You're going to start a memory-political, ideological war on a hundred-year anniversary. You have no intention of finding a minimum here, with which all of you, Hungarian politics, Hungarian public thinking and Hungarian intellectuals can agree. From now on, this will only serve your active policy goals and will definitely divert attention from what we want to focus attention on, the Hungarian communities abroad and the problems of Hungarian communities abroad. That is why I find the attitude that you are taking on this matter irresponsible. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm so sorry, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to improve Hungary's competitiveness and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. The government referral is T/15053. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/15053 on 25 May 2017. The Commission presented a bill amending certain laws to improve Hungary's competitiveness and presented a draft amendment and a summary report with 19 votes in favour, 3 votes against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the amendments proposed by the Committee on Enterprise Development, which have been supported by our committee; I would like to detail them in a few words. For example, it is stipulated that within eight working days it is necessary to install the gas pipeline for the consumer. The amendment also covers the tasks, procedures and procedures of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, as well as the procedures to be applied in case of refusal to connect the public utility line. Instead of the previous 16 amperes, the modification differential for low- and medium-voltage lines to be exempted from the connection fee. In the case of a plumbing, it differentiates between the plumbing and the sewerage. The Legislative Committee therefore supported the position of the committee. However, a substantive amendment was not found in it, and the amendment differentiates the entry into force of certain provisions of the bill with a view to ensuring sufficient preparation time. There is currently no time limit for refusal of access to the distribution network for the network licensee. However, as soon as possible, legal certainty and guaranteeing the rights of the client justify the entry into force of the provision on the day following its publication. Ladies and gentlemen, The basic objective of the bill is to introduce measures to speed up connections to the public utility network, which can significantly improve the competitiveness of our country. Please vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he has a period of 10 minutes for his speech and closing together. As much as you don't use from 10 minutes, you'll be at your disposal. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[18.30]]
u2017-05-29-283	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin by thanking you first and thank you for all the parties in Parliament who made their comments to us in the debate, either in the opening debate or in the work of the Legislative Committee, or before that, with proposals for the Government's presentation. However, I think that the positive numbers of the macro-economic economy show only one reading of the functioning of the Hungarian economy. It is also important to pay attention to the criticisms that are formulated in the competitiveness reports, even if they give a very subjective assessment of a country's economy in many respects, but they may be able to guide the legislators in the direction in which they should be applied to regulatory instruments. For a state can contribute to the operation of a country's economy in several ways, a government can support the operation of a country's economy in several ways. On the one hand, it can provide direct financing instruments and, on the other hand, use the legislative options available to it when it tries to intervene in market processes in a more favourable way for market participants in Hungary. We believe that the policy of cutting red tape that has been launched in recent years, which, on the one hand, reduces the scope of legislation, of regulators that the Hungarian business sector must comply with and, on the other hand, reduces the price of various public services, is in any case in the right direction. We need to look at where and in what areas we still have work to do, as proposed in the Competitiveness Council. It is clear that, while, in cooperation with the countries of the European Union in the region, we are, to say, representing an economic region and trying together to improve the economic potential of this region, there is still a competition between the Carpathian Basin and the countries of the Eastern Central European region, which is all about how we are trying to bring working capital to this country, thanks to the administration, the bureaucratic burden that businesses are facing. It is clear from this report that, taking into account international comparisons, the operational practice of utility service providers can be interpreted in many respects as the country's competitiveness deficit, i.e. as a competitive disadvantage for the country. I just want to give you an example. For example, while the entire process of connecting the electricity grid and its time requirements in Hungary take 257 days, this number is much lower for other countries belonging to the Visegrád Four. We are talking about 120 days for Poland and Slovakia, and the OECD average is 76 days overall. So it is worth considering for the legislators how we can support these processes with the power of various laws or, where appropriate, force them from the maintenance of public utility networks. Therefore, the proposal would like to address this issue not only at one point, but also, on the one hand, to respond to the reason why the accession fees are at a cost such as those on the market. There seems to be a significant difference, it costs much more to join the public utility network in Hungary than in the neighbouring countries. What is the reason for this is that if we meet market-efficient companies in the latter case, and the cost items that might arise are no different from those in the countries where they can solve them much cheaper. Another problem, which also looks at financial issues, is that we also encounter a much, let's say, more generous tariff for changing the various gas meters, since utility service providers have had the usual practice not only of billing effective working hours at the customer, but also of charging customers with hours of work that were not used directly in the time of the services provided to them, so that they have paid or paid countless fees without any service. Another problem is that distribution companies have been given excessive discretion in the assessment of the application for public utility connections and in the preparation of plans where clearly all the relevant rules have been met and public utility companies, acting under their quasi-official authority, have been able to abuse this market position. So the state does not only want to simplify regulatory tools at a level that reduces the burden on users in Hungary too in time and in financial terms, but also wants to take advantage of the practice that many public utility operators have acquired in recent years, and it is clearly not a higher quality service, but rather at the expense of customers and customers. I think that this bill is capable of achieving a meaningful improvement and change in the country's competitiveness indicators. Of course, this is a prerequisite for the Hungarian Parliament to support this proposal, which I would also like to ask of you. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-29-284	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you have four minutes and eight seconds left for the closing, which you will then, please, use. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. So Mr. Secretary of State has nothing to answer for. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Coming up now is the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. Discussion of the report before the final vote and the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the bill amending the Act. The government referral is T/15057. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all of us. The legislative committee's proposal for amendment before the final vote is T/1505/12 and its report before the final vote is T/1505/13. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that on 25 May 2017 the Legislative Committee negotiated the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. T/15057 amending Act T/15057 The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a report before the final vote, with 23 votes in favour, 6 against and no abstentions. The Minister for Development submitted the changes to the legal specification because the single proposal was adopted in the 17th century. Point 1 of Section 1 contains an unenforceable provision, given that the repealing provision is CCIX of 2011 on water utility services. 11 of the Law on the Amendment of the Law. Instead of paragraph 5b, it refers to point 5b. The amendment before the final vote will therefore remedy this situation. In view of what has been said, I call for the support of the proposal. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-29-286	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The political groups will be able to speak in five minutes, and the independent representatives will be able to speak in a total of three minutes. I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go, notary.
u2017-05-29-287	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, it is only a matter of technical clarification. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to say that, although Mr Szabó, State Secretary, is not here now, who has, by the way, gone through this debate, and I therefore have to say my comments to Mr Fónagy State Secretary, but during the debate, Mr Szabó said a number of things, and, unfortunately, because he has not been actively involved in the debate, he has always said only a closing word, so it is quite difficult to argue with him in this way. But at the last closing point, I have a chance and a way to answer it. [[18.40]] I would like to do this in two points. One is that when he talked about - and this is in the substance of the bill - that in the future the definition of previously defined and truly non-lifelike periods of maintenance, and the associated depreciation description, will now be adapted, making this thing a little more realistic, quite rightly. At the same time, when I resented that there were a lot of applications in previous periods, which were about the establishment of a water utility, the Hungarian State, the individual investors and, where appropriate, local authorities took on certain commitments, given the length of the maintenance period - say, in the case of a sewer investment, say, 35 years - and what depreciation descriptions will be applied in relation to this, and calculated on the basis of the cost-benefit analysis, so on the basis of the cost-benefit analysis, it was determined to what extent this depreciation description will be in the basic fee or in the service fee and in the cubic meter fee, if the law is revised subsequently, then there will be some sort of repayment obligation here. What am I talking about? If the depreciation is smaller, which we want to use - with all due rights - then what we have collected from people for this purpose, and we have said that every 5 years, 10 years, 15 years, et cetera will be used for such investments, improvements, we will either make these investments, improvements, or if we do not do so, we will have to charge a lower basic fee, or we will have to return the money, we must say that we are sorry, in the next two or three months or a year, we do not have to pay, say, a basic fee, and we have adjusted it back to the population. Mr Szabó, State Secretary, said that what is written in a detailed feasibility study plan in the local government's tender is, in effect, a material that needs to be delivered to the European Commission by kilos, but they also know that this is not the case, so it should not be taken seriously, and they do not demand it from us. I think this attitude is completely nonsense, and I don't think it's the right thing to do. I'm sure that every application you sign, say, representing the municipality, is a mayor or president of a water utility company, every word in it, every letter must be in its place, and it must be foldable. The other - very briefly, in a sentence - is that non-resident users will no longer have to pay a water utility development contribution if they make, for example, housing constructions that they want to continue to sell. With all due respect, I think that the Hungarian population, for example, paid a very serious contribution to investments in water utilities of this kind, which I was just talking about, in each case, per resident, per real estate owner to create that water utility, but even when they were not yet investments in the European Union, but before that, the population was self-complicated with water, sewerage and so on, everyone paid. After that, certain real estate developments, real estate investors, let me not say, for the sake of real estate speculators, I think it is very unfair that these developers will join existing systems, which someone had to finance once before. I understand that it is important to reduce the rent on the part of the government, but I think this is an unfair decision for those who have already made this commitment. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-288	Thank you very much, notary. From the group of the MSZP, Mrs Anita Heringes will take the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-29-289	Thank you very much for the floor. On the one hand, I would like to join the Member before me on this issue, and I hope that we can get a meaningful answer as to why this is the reason why these non-residents will no longer have to pay the contribution if their apartments are further sold. This really will seem unfair to an ordinary citizen, because when he buys a house, he will have to pay the development fees, and he will not understand why there are developers that will not have to pay the water utility development fees for the same properties. If you can tell me that, Mr. Secretary, an answer that is acceptable to the public and fair, then we can accept it, just reading through the amendment of the law, I do not see such an answer. There are two things that I think are very, very important in this sector. Currently, workers' emigration is 25 percent per year in water utility companies. This is something to figure out, because water is a very, very important issue, it is a very important question for all residents to do precise, good work for the people working there, and to do that, you have to be able to keep the professionals, the engineers, you have to be able to give them salaries that make them stay in these companies, and they don't go anywhere else. What is very, very important is that we also need to find a solution to the fact that the water utility companies have so far paid the municipalities a fee for use or rent so that improvements can be made. Only after a large part of the water utility companies are local government-owned companies, so in several places in Hungary, after the municipality has put the money from one pocket to the other, a HUF 1 per cubic meter development amount comes out, this rent is HUF 1 per cubic meter. There can be no improvements, and I don't think quality assurance can be made either. We must take steps to ensure that these water utility companies are not completely bled out. Local governments cannot put more money into these, as we know, so it is very, very important that we rethink this sector from beginning to end. Thank you.
u2017-05-29-290	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. The debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State may state within a five-minute time frame whether he accepts the proposal. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-291	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the proposal of the Legislative Committee itself to amend the final vote, the Government agrees, of course, and asks for its support. As the rapporteur Member of the Commission mentioned, this is a technical amendment, which improves the error of reference to legislation. In view of what has been said in this House, let me try to respond to both points. One of the non-calculations that Congresswoman has raised...
u2017-05-29-292	The notary is on the bench, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-29-293	Oh, I'm sorry, I'm in the wrong direction. I'm sorry. What Mrs President has said is that legislation, as we know, regulates in advance. Retrospective regulation is always an eternal debate about how fair or how unfair it is. By the way, in the case of all types of network utility development, this has come up, and I'm sure there are those who remember the debates that took place decades ago, when, for example, the development of the gas network, there were those who had previously undertaken the entire network development costs of a 60 per cent connection, how much they would pay to pay if they paid, why they didn't pay, and why they didn't. This is an eternal debate about this. I believe that this bill before this House cannot resolve this. There is no doubt that the temporal scope of legislation, which is already centuries old, and what is more, a millennia of its system, and the category of common justice do not always coincide, is simply the backward regulation - and it always turns out to be - causing more trouble than good. However, without taking the time of this House, I would like to ask my fellow Members to consider that, after the change of regime, after the more than 400 water utilities that had been created at that time, and 200 which had provided only for themselves, the integration of these has resulted in 40 or 37 or 38 numbers. [[18.50]] The way this works in itself, however, provides the basic care needed for all, and these accounting, sometimes anomalies or injustices do not change this basic situation. As regards the suggestion made by Mrs Heringes, my fellow Member, please bear in mind that utility workers, especially those working in water utilities, signed a wage agreement for 3 years in January this year, have received virtually a 30% wage improvement in terms of income that had not actually reached the average. I know there's no salary that can't be paid more or asked for more. The employees of the water utility companies have been involved in this 3-year wage development campaign, on average, of 30%. In addition to these, I would like to ask once again that the House support the technical amendment. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-294	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, We now have the Commission's reports on amendments to the laws governing the functioning of financial markets and the trading of financial instruments for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15347. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 25 May 2017, the members of the Committee held a debate on the amendment of the laws governing the operation of financial markets and the trading of financial instruments for legal harmonisation purposes T/15347. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. The summary amendment proposal contains the legislative committee's proposals for amendments, since no proposal for a separate amendment has been discussed before the committee. Our committee has tabled the following motions for consultation, which are accompanied by support. In order to ensure legal consistency, it is necessary to exclude the International Investment Bank from the scope of the laws of credit institutions and capital markets and to introduce a social payment account on the basis of the public interest, for which detailed rules will be laid down by a Government Decree. In addition, financial service providers will be able to carry out customer due diligence measures in the future by means of pre-audited communications that they operate. Not least, let me point out that, in addition to the intermediary fee paid to a credit intermediary outside the banking group but not exceeding 2%, the member of the banking group who makes the credit assessment and the credit administration can receive the compensation for the service. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us already shows in its title that we are basically talking about a package of laws implementing EU harmonisation. In the area of financial regulation, this type of regulation is a recurring task, as maintaining a single European financial market requires the adoption and modernisation of a number of EU legislation. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask Ms Ágnes Hornung, Secretary of State, if she wishes to speak now. [[Anna Hornung Agnes says no.]] He doesn't want to. Thus, the Secretary of State will have a 10-minute time-frame if she speaks in closing at the end. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-29-297	Mr President, Dear House, We must say that, compared to the general debate, the content of the proposal before us, which is largely what the Union demands, has not fundamentally changed, because we clearly see that our current government intends to regulate incorrectly, in a government decree, a number of important issues which should not necessarily be referred to as its own competence. In addition to facilitating customer due diligence, we do not see that the due diligence of service providers or investment funds would take place for the benefit of customers in the depth that Hungarian customers would otherwise deserve. We also see that it is about introducing an unprepared system, let us add, not only in Hungary. The problem at European level is the fact that banks that may have been able to spread their analyses on the market free of charge, if any, in quotes, can't do this without limits in the future, but the institutions concerned don't even know how much money and how to do it, so how to channel this into market processes. Some providers wish to provide their analyses on a tariff basis later; some think in demented versions, but we can see that what the Union demands of Hungary does not always help the planning of market processes. However, the Government of Hungary would expect the strengthening of the consumer protection system and the screening of service providers and investment funds in the interests of customers at least as far as consumers are concerned. This is in the interest of all Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-29-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go. Time frame's 10 minutes, Madam Secretary.
u2017-05-29-299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As we have heard from the Member of the Commission, this is basically a transposition of an EU directive, a proposal made on a professional basis. Neither the Economic Committee nor its Members have tabled an amendment to the proposal, so we have also concluded that this is a consensus proposal. The Member said the amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee, which make it easier to make use of the proposal, which is, of course, supported by the government. The detailed rules will be drawn up in a next, inferior legislation. I would like to add that the aim of this proposal is now specifically to help consumer-friendly products, that scandals that have occurred before cannot occur now, so we have actually tried to strengthen consumer protection in the Hungarian legal system on the basis of the EU's guidance. Of course, we can't do everything at once, so we are going step by step, but the Hungarian legislation fully complies with the EU rules, and we are not behind. The EU is also developing day by day, so financial laws require a continuous legislative process, and these issues are likely to be found here on Parliament's agenda, so we will ask for your further assistance. And for this bill, I thank you all very much for your support, and we ask for your vote to continue tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-300	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15366. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all on the parliamentary IT network. [[19.00]] The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-301	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed the house rules on 25 May 2017 46. According to §2 CLXXXV of 2012 on waste T/15366. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 18 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the 12-point text of the Sustainable Development Committee. In addition to language and codification clarifications, the commission states that the real estate user is required to transfer the waste to the public service provider only if the law does not provide otherwise. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] On the other hand, the proposal clarifies, in the same way as the provisions currently in force, that sites for the transfer of waste may not only be used for the operation of the public service operator. The adoption of the bill can improve security of supply, ensure continuity of public services, and this can be done while keeping the benefits of reducing the costs. That is why I am asking for this House's support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-302	Welcome, fellow Members. I will now ask Mr. Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State, if he wishes to reply at the beginning. [[For signal:]] No, the Secretary of State will signal it. I now give the floor to Mónika Bartos, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development.
u2017-05-29-303	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Sustainable Development held a meeting on 9 May on T/15366. CLXXXV of 2012 on waste. a detailed discussion of the bill amending the law. It concluded that this was in line with the provisions of the house rules 44. § 1 of the Fundamental Law and the additional necessary legal and legislative requirements. The aim of the proposal is to amend the regulation of the waste management system in a number of areas, based on the experience of the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd., i.e. the coordinating body, in order to maintain more efficient operation and efficiency in reducing the costs. The proposal changes the operation of the waste management system in seven areas, which are described in one sentence. It reduces the size of the stores required to receive glass waste from the current floor area of at least 500 square metres to 300 square metres. As subcontractors, public service providers can entrust only non-profit organisations with public service activities and no longer for profit. Public service providers may use their free capacity to carry out other activities subject to a waste management permit or registration, but they are obliged to devote their results to public service. It specifies the content of the payment request. It states that the owner of the waste covered by the public service is the coordinating body. In the case of the application of the unlawful public service charge, it eliminates the fineability of the coordinating body, since the data required for invoicing, including the amount of the public service charge, are provided by the public service providers. It allows the coordinating body to use the customer services of the public services to perform its customer service tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee for Sustainable Development 15366/4. The Commission adopted a proposal to close a detailed debate, which requires the municipality to ensure free use of public space if the glass-retrieving business or the paper-gathering school cannot implement this in its own territory. On the other hand, it clarifies that the waste transfer place can not only be operated by the public service provider, but also by the municipality. This has already been the case, but the proposal clarifies the wording so that it cannot be misunderstood. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-304	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Anita Heringes, who will present the Commission's minority opinion.
u2017-05-29-305	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Sallai R. Benedek and I have formulated a minority opinion. We were both in the position that we still do not understand that NHKV Zrt. What is the extra value you can give to waste management? We still cannot accept that the changes to the law are based on his experience, because his experience cannot be in many ways, because he has failed to do all his duties, he failed to send out the invoices in time, he was inaccurate invoicing, he gave inaccurate addresses, with inaccurate deadlines. I think that since this company doesn't work well, we don't understand why the government is relying on his experience. With regard to glass waste, we continue to view the amendment as unviable, and therefore we do not see this as a good solution. We still do not see with my fellow Member how 50 percent of the waste collected by the public will be recycled by 2020 if the government forgets to list incineration as recycling because it is now counting, but we know that this is very far from recycling. Payment requests will also be sent by e-mail in the future. This is also a very good question: if you have failed by post so far, then the email solution will be smoother. The fact that the coordinating bodies can no longer be fined for bad data, since the waste management companies are now completely bled out, which is why, obviously, they have to take responsibility for the fact that NHKV will not be able to bill accurately, but we are getting used to it slowly and slowly. We provide free public use for shops so that they can relocate waste collection islands. And I think this is difficult to reconcile with what the government has done so far, because, in any case - and now I would like to use your terms - we now tell the garbage multinationals that they don't have to pay a public service fee for dumping such waste collection islands. If an ordinary citizen wishes to apply for permission to use public land, he must pay for it. I think that this is not fair either, but we have been getting used to them slowly and slowly in recent times; we hope that this will not take long. Thank you.
u2017-05-29-306	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Member if someone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed and I will ask Mr Zsolt V. Németh, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes, you have the floor.
u2017-05-29-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the debate, two technical questions were raised which should be clarified. On the one hand, the representatives of the waste management industry have suggested that, on the basis of some interpretation, they feel that the operation of the classic BEE sites is impossible. Since the legislator had no intention of influencing this market segment, we considered that we should amend the relevant provision and thus set out that the sites for the transfer of waste should not be exclusively in the operation of public services. Another practical issue is the placing of bells for the collection of glass, because it is possible, in Budapest in particular, in private shops, that they cannot place glass bells for the collection of glass in their own territory, and the legislator specifically intended that this would happen outside, and not together in the place where the bottles, which were used for the reception of returnable glass, would take place. This is the case for sociocultural reasons, because a large amount of glass through the store will not be passed by customers, and the goal is to collect these bottles, so it will not be fulfilled. It is also a professional question of whether, for example, it is expected to wash glass clean at single-way bottles, whether it is a waste of water, a cleaning agent, when we are doing this at another stage of processing, while, obviously, this expectation is clear in terms of recyclable or padded bottles. So we'd like to secure it outside, but there's no area for the owner of the business. In this case, the municipality must provide a suitable location. There may, of course, be debates about what is desirable from a cityscape perspective, a location. To clarify this, the government decree to be created will provide guidance. [[19.10]] I believe that with these two amendments, as well as with language and codification amendments, this legislation will achieve its objective and that the regulations will provide far more useful secondary raw material. We will be able to meet the expectations set out in the EU directives for us. I would ask my fellow Members to support both the summary proposal and the bill as a whole during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-308	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain land laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/15374. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Dénes Pigeon, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-05-29-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that on May 25, 2017, the Legislative Committee is the house rule 46. T/15372 on the amendment of certain food chain laws. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, four against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the text of the Committee on Agriculture closing the in-depth debate and the proposal for an over-expansive amendment, as well as the legislative committee's own initiatives. The duly expanded amendment states that Article XXI of 1996 on the identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes Law 10/A The aim of the proposal to amend or supplement Article 5 of the Act is to make available and verify the full content of the so-called FELIR data of natural persons, in the context of a food chain monitoring information system, which is a public official register, and its identifiers...
u2017-05-29-310	Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry, I have to stop you because you're not talking about the subject. The next item will be where you are also the rapporteur. [[Dr. Dénes Pigeon: Food Chain.]] No, no, we're talking about land, so we're discussing the item in front of it. [[Dr. Dénes Pigeon: The food chain, isn't it? Intercoms: No! Dr. Dénes Pigeon: Sorry. Did we switch? István Szávay: No, that was also the original item on the agenda!]] That's all right, then go ahead, Congressman.
u2017-05-29-311	Then, Mr. President, excuse me, for the record, this is T/15374. [[On behalf of the President:]] Good. I'm the performer on all three. Mr President, Dear House, I inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 25 May 2017 is the House Rule 46. T/15374 on the amendment of certain land laws. and the Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 20 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the motion of the Committee on Agriculture, on the one hand, and the initiative of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, on the other, which sets out several points of the committee's proposal. In addition to language positioning and editing clarifications, the supported amendment will provide an opportunity to issue a temporary land certification card, which will provide an additional solution for the smooth conduct of official procedures and the completion of administrative procedures within the time limit. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the summarised amendment contains an addition which will enable the food chain monitoring body to have free access to each map database in order to increase the effectiveness of the epidemiological measures. It is also worth mentioning that the use of the map reporting fees submitted to the National Cadastral Program Nonprofit Kft. is clarified by the accepted summary amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask, not to repeat what has been said in the general debate, that you support it, as set out in the summary report of the Legislative Committee, in T/15374. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you.
u2017-05-29-312	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr. Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, if he would like to comment now. [[On Róbert Zsigó's signal:]] He says he doesn't want it yet. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. So I give the floor to Gábor Varga, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development in this debate. If he were here, but, excuse me, he's not here. We'll move on from that. The representatives will be taking part in the speeches. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2017-05-29-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The detailed discussion of the bill was also held by the Committee on Agriculture and Sustainable Development. Several minor professional additions were included in the proposal during the various discussion stages. My fellow Members and I did not agree on everything with regard to the laws as amended by the proposal, but it was often more political than professional. There is nothing more evidence of this than the fact that there were provisions aimed at creating political mood among the proposals tabled by its representatives. However, I believe that there was no discussion between us that the proposal would provide a viable response to real problems. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction therefore continues to support the government's presentation. That is why, with all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to consider the bill professionally and to support it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-314	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó.
u2017-05-29-315	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Since all arguments and political and professional arguments have been made in the debate, I would like to say briefly that I ask the Parliament to support the bill and the amendment in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-29-316	Thank you. The debate is closed, and the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain food chain legislation and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15372. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I also give the floor to the Committee rapporteur, Dénes Galambos.
u2017-05-29-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry about the previous mistake, but I think the Secretary of State also has this bill. I think that I will shorten the beginning, because I referred to it once in my previous speech, but I would like to make the point. I hereby inform the Parliament that on 25 May 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the bill before us, and the Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, four against and without abstentions. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the text of the Committee on Agriculture closing the in-depth debate and the proposal for an over-expansive amendment, as well as the legislative committee's own initiatives. [[19.20]] Proposal No XX of 1996 on the identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes Law 10/A The aim of the proposal to amend or supplement Article 5 of this Regulation is to ensure that the so-called FELIR identifiers of natural persons can be accessed and verified through the registry, which facilitates electronic administration in accordance with the Food Chain Act No 38/B. § the enforcement of paragraph 1 of this Article. The correct position in this case is that the commission, which examined the submission, has stated, in addition to the language correctness clarifications, that the priority of electronic administration will also help to reduce the black economy, since the pig and the seller and the buyer can be clearly and quickly identified through up-to-date data in the database. The monitoring of pigs will thus become easier for the whole food chain, which, I believe, is of fundamental interest to the functioning of the whole system. The electronic procedure does not, of course, preclude the keeper from acting by his authorised representative in a specific case. CCXXII of 2015 on general rules for electronic administration and trust services. Law 9. Paragraph 3 of Article 3 requires a natural person to be bound only by law for electronic administration. Because of this legal requirement, it is also necessary to mention what has been said in the Food Chain Act. In its own motion, the Legislative Committee states, inter alia, that in the event of epizootic diseases causing serious economic damage or an exceptional food chain event, it may be necessary to support the performance of official duties. On the basis of the proposal, the national chief veterinary surgeon may provide for the public use of service veterinarians in order to quickly and effectively control the outbreak.
u2017-05-29-318	In view of what has been said in the detailed debate after the general debate, including the supplementary opinions of the committees and the summary report, I would ask that the bill be discussed and adopted. Thank you very much. [[Robert Szigó: Not now.]] Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment now. It says no. I would now give the floor to Congressman István Horváth, but he is not here, so the Committee on Agriculture cannot give his opinion.
u2017-05-29-319	We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also makes amendments in a number of important areas that will be able to further improve food safety and the situation of Hungarian farmers in the future. Such areas include epidemiology, food safety risk analysis, food quality comparative tests, the certification of catering establishments, the mandatory technical review for plant protection machinery or plant protection advice. Better functioning in these areas, increasing efficiency, simpler administration is expected with the adoption of amendments. Perhaps it refers to a professional agreement that my fellow opposition Members did not submit an amendment to the bill. Several minor amendments have been added to the proposal at Commission level. It is interesting that there has been a regular over-extensive amendment, which has not been used since the adoption of the current house rules. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-29-320	The proposal is clearly supported by the Fidesz fraction. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support you in voting. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President. [[There's no candidate.]] Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone would like to comment on the agenda. I don't see a candidate.
u2017-05-29-321	The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman and Lords! We also had the opportunity to discuss the points that Mr Pócs has now listed in the general debate on the bill and in the debate on the excessive amendment proposal. I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate, who, I add, participated in the professional debate, and who, with his contribution and proposal, helped to get to this point in the proposal to amend certain food chain laws. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-29-322	Mr President, I ask the Parliament to support the bill in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/15375. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network.
u2017-05-29-323	First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Once again, I give the floor to Congressman Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-05-29-324	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 25 May 2017, the members held a meeting on T/15375 amending certain laws relating to the integration of cooperative credit institutions. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment also includes the amendments proposed by the Economic Committee and the initiatives of the Legislative Committee to clarify the language. The adoption of the bill will result in the strengthening of the long-term profitable and prudent functioning of the cooperative credit institution sector. As I pointed out in my speech to the speaker in the general debate on the bill, it is also an important element of the bill that the achievement of a size-efficient institutional system allowing more efficient business operation is a priority objective of the bill. Out of 52 savings cooperatives, 12 reorganised savings cooperatives are created and the size-efficient scale and the related new IT system allow customers to be served more up-to-date. At the same time, warranty elements are included in the bill that customers cannot suffer any disadvantage, as they also have the right to terminate free of charge in the course of the amendments. The forward-looking provisions of the bill were also explained in the general debate by my fellow Members. It is the strengthening of the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions, the prudential and central bank's business functions, and the emphasis on it, which is still an important element of the bill. On the basis of what has been said in the detailed debate and the additions to the legislative committee's detailed discussion procedure, I would like to ask you to support the bill at the end of tomorrow's vote and to allow the cooperative credit institution to operate more modernly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes.]] Thank you. I ask whether Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, wishes to comment now.
u2017-05-29-325	It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill we are discussing is designed to create the conditions for the long-term profitable and prudent operation of cooperative credit institution integration, ensuring the protection of the interests of the sector in order to achieve closer integration. In Parliament's decision-making, the Commission's proposals for amendments to the bill were all technical, contain codification, language positioning changes, and were used to establish linguistic coherence of the text. Thank you for the high level of support work of the committees, with which you have contributed to clarifying and clarifying the text of the bill, thereby ensuring better compliance with the legislative requirements. [[19.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, The functioning of the integration of cooperative credit institutions established in 2013 has been consolidated in recent years, and the results of the process have demonstrated the original legislative efforts. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-326	The draft law before us fully complies with the intentions to improve the professional content of the legislation which it intends to amend, the integration process and the strengthening of internal prudent operation. On the basis of everything, I ask that the bill be supported in the vote tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now it would be the Members' speeches if there were any. But I do not see a candidate, so we move on, and the debate is closed. I don't suppose you'd like to comment again, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain transport laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/15379. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2017-05-29-327	The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that on 25 May 2017 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/15379 on the amendment of certain transport laws. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains, on the one hand, the text of the Economic Committee closing a detailed debate, which contains an authorisation clause. For reasons of road safety and safety of origin, it is necessary to establish a professional, independent and strategic role in the certification of vehicles of a musical nature. The increased number of ratings requires optimization and professionalism of the operational and regulatory environment. According to the Legislative Committee's own proposal, the introduction of the legislative concept of a bicycle transport device, in order to clearly define for users the basic criteria to be met at the minimum. The amendment makes it clear that the support devices which are temporarily installed on the vehicle are suitable for the carriage of bicycles or other objects and which cover all or part of the vehicle's official marking, i.e. the registration number or the lighting and light-signalling devices.
u2017-05-29-328	In addition, bicycle transport devices must continue to comply with other technical specifications, and the introduction of the concept does not change in this respect. With the adoption of the bill, the legislator is concerned with specific areas which serve the clear development of the particular transport sector, sub-area, in full compliance with the requirements of the norm. That is why I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. As rapporteur, I would like to ask Mr. Robert Homolya, State Secretary, if he would like to comment now.
u2017-05-29-329	It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal before you contains amendments to a number of traffic laws. During the parliamentary hearing, the proposals for amendments to the bill were mostly legal, contain codification, language positioning changes, and were used to establish the linguistic coherence of the text. The amendment of the substance added a new concept to the interpretation of the Road Transport Register Act; Mr László B. Nagy explained the concept of a bicycle transport device in detail here, which would supplement the legislation. The bill also received a separate amendment by its representatives, which complements the road transport law with a new authorisation clause for vehicles of a musical nature. The aim of the amendment is to develop a professional, independent, strategic role for reasons of road safety and safety. The increased number of ratings requires optimization and professionalism of the operational and regulatory environment. The government supported the amendment. I would also like to thank the committees for their high-quality, supportive professional work, with which they have contributed to clarifying and clarifying the text of the bill, thereby ensuring better compliance with the legislative requirements. Dear House, The draft law before us fully complies with the intentions to improve the professional content of the legislation which it intends to amend and to improve anomalies resulting from practical experience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-330	Dear Parliament, Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[For signal:]] Thank you, Secretary of State. The designated Economic Committee did not set up a rapporteur, so it would be a speech by its representatives, but I do not see a candidate for the time being, so this part will be cancelled. The debate is over. I'll ask you of your own motion if you'd like to comment again, Secretary of State. Obviously not anymore. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's report on the amendment of certain health and health insurance laws is now under discussion. The government referral is T/15369. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. [[For signal:]] I will ask Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. He says he doesn't want to comment right now. [[For signal:]] No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. There will be speeches by Members now, but there will be no candidates, so we will move on, and I will end the debate at the same time. Again, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State if he would like to comment. It says no. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting.
u2017-05-29-331	Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/15376. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. First, I give the floor to László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 25 May 2017 is the House Rule 46. T/15376 on the amendment of certain related laws relating to the regulation of education. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 18 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the text of the Committee on Culture closing a detailed debate on the one hand and the initiative of the Committee on Legislative Affairs on the other. The Committee's motion states, inter alia, that, in the case of children with moderate intellectual disabilities, it is appropriate to educate the subject of physical education with a therapeutic approach, because of the broad spectrum of symptomatic images and the weaker cognitive abilities, while maintaining the importance of an inclusive approach. In view of the fact that the education of moderate mentally disabled students is usually carried out in a medical pedagogical institute whose main profile is the education of mild mentally disabled students, it is also possible for them to operate under the guidance of teachers in a common, so-called other occupations, not in a teaching form. Furthermore, Jobbik's focus was supported by the Cultural Committee. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-29-332	The Legislative Committee's own motion clarifies, in addition to language-rights clarification, that the development professions provided by the Public Education Act continue to be available for children with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties. In view of what has been said, I would also ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[19.40]] Thank you, Congressman. There would be a minority opinion now, but there is no Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély here, so that is not the case. [[Dr. László Palkovics says no.]] I will ask the author, Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State, if he wishes to comment now. He says he doesn't want to comment. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee.
u2017-05-29-333	So I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik! Poslanke in Poslanci! Zagovornice in Zagovorniki! Mr President, Congresswoman and Lords! Speaking Lords! T/15376 on regulating education and amending certain related laws The number 1 bill and its contents also affect the public education issues of nationalities living in Hungary. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary requested the approval of the House Committee to negotiate the bill. During the general debate, I presented the arguments that supported our connection to the negotiation of the bill. The main points of this were the high number of Roma-born children in Roma communities, who sometimes need health and pedagogical rehabilitation due to social disadvantages, due to the educational rehabilitation of pupils with special educational needs who are mentally disabled and have behavioural difficulties. We also mentioned the importance of study trips in neighbouring countries through the motherland excursions of ethnic students living in Hungary. It is important that every ethnic student can get to the country whose language, culture and traditions are part of his life at least once in his studies. A good relationship with fellow nations, learning about the history of the mother country, its typical natural, social and cultural values, and a good knowledge of it is a priority in the education of ethnicity. In the general debate, I also emphasised that the bill also sets out the status of the Commissioner for Education, which could also affect the specific characteristics of education and education in nationality. The committee held a detailed discussion of the bill at its meeting on 8 May 2017. During the detailed discussion, the Committee reviewed the 14 amendments tabled to the bill. During the detailed discussion, the Committee did not take a position on the proposed amendments to the bill and did not intend to make any further amendments. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary also considers the amendments made in the bill to be forward-looking for ethnic public education. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-334	Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. It would now be the speeches of the Members, if there were, but there are none now. The debate is therefore closed. [[Dr. László Palkovics:]] I will ask Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment at the end of the debate.
u2017-05-29-335	It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2017-05-29-336	Thank you very much. I would just like to thank the committees briefly for their work on this matter, and I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament to support this package of laws. Thank you very much. [[A moment's pause.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I'm gonna need a few seconds of a technical break. We're back in session. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15377. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament.
u2017-05-29-337	First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I also give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 25 May 2017 is the House Rule 46. In accordance with Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Court of Justice of the European Union, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, had jurisdiction over the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in so far as it concerns the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Act T/15377 amending Act T/15377 and certain related laws The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report for amendment No 22 in favour, 6 in favour of and without abstention. The summarised amendment contains the proposals closing the detailed debate held by the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. The amendment emphasises that public collections and public education institutions have a key objective and at the same time a public mission to contribute to improving quality of life and ensuring social well-being. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-338	Ladies and gentlemen, With these amendments to the bill before us, after several years of professional preparation, he would like to turn the so-called cultural law into a new approach, to which I would like to ask for your support. Thank you for listening to me again. [[Dr. László Palkovics:]] Thank you, Congressman. Now I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. It indicates that you do not wish to comment at the moment.
u2017-05-29-339	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. So I give the floor to Mr János Fuzik, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary in connection with the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Vaseny Pan Predseda! Vasenna Národné zhromazdenie! Pozdravujem Vás v mene Vyboru pre národnosti v Madarsku a prájem úspesné rokovanie! Mr President, Dear House, I welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and wish you an effective discussion. The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Act T/15377 amending Act T/15377 and certain related laws Detailed discussion of the legislative proposal No 32 - the House Rules of Procedure of the Decision. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary conducted it on 8 May 2017 as an associated committee pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2. The item was also discussed by the Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of National Human Resources, Mrs Krucsainé Herter Anikó, representing the Ministry of Human Resources. Our Commission presented a Commission report on a detailed debate, in which it concluded in detail that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. During the detailed discussion, the Committee noted that an amendment had been tabled to the bill by its representatives, which the Committee did not wish to take a position on. [[19.50]] At the same time, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has made a separate amendment proposal, both as a sign and as a result of the fact that it considers the field of museum institutions, public library provision and public education to be an important scene for the culture of national minority communities in Hungary. Accordingly, our committee and its Subcommittee on Public Education and Culture, as well as its Supervisory Sub-Committee, regularly put on the agenda the current issues of the cultural life of the nationalities represented by us. The amendments made by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary concern three paragraphs of the two paragraphs of the bill. According to the new parlex form and terminology, the total number of modifications is two. First, the Committee welcomed the fact that the amendment was proposed in Article 18. §2 of the Act now name the minority self-government in the line of the maintenance and operators of public education institutions. This is in fact consistent with the practice of the cultural autonomy of nationalities, as national and local national authorities already maintain a number of public education institutions - libraries, documentation centres, museums, cultural centres. The legislative amendment proposed under Article 77 of the original legislation. § 2 (2) is concerned, but leaves paragraph 4 unchanged, which states, quote: . The public institution of public education maintained by the State, the local government or the local government association acts as a budgetary body. Our Commission's amendment complements the reservation list with the minority self-government, in line with the amendment of paragraph 2 and the law on the rights of nationalities and public finances. The second Commission amendment was tabled in the 21st part of the bill. Article 83/A of the original Act. It concerns paragraphs 1 to 2 of this Article. The paragraph provides that the local government, after consulting the public education round table, determines in a regulation the scope of the basic public education services to be provided, as well as the form, method and extent of its tasks. This regulation shall be reviewed at least every five years, also in consultation with the round table for public education. Our Commission believes that the legal guarantees of cooperation between local and national self-governments in settlements inhabited by nationalities, where there is a local government, should be broadened in the field of basic public education. As the national minority self-government is not a member of the public culture round table, we propose that the local government also consult with the national minority self-government on its regulations of public education and its review at least every five years. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary is pleased to note that the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate on the bill was supported by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 25 May 2017 and agreed with it. We trust in this House's equally positive decision in the final vote.
u2017-05-29-340	Thank you for your attention. Dakujem za pocornost! [[No signal.]] Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I'll ask if anyone wants to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Secretary Peter Hoppál if he would like to comment now.
u2017-05-29-341	It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me very briefly to inform my fellow Members that the amendments that were included in the summary amendment, most of which, in addition to the fact that some text-focusing proposals have been submitted, have indeed incorporated the proposals of the minority committee, as summarised by the speaker, as an amendment. In recent years, the government has supported with good heart the further development of cultural identity in the institutional and maintenance community of nationalities. So in this government support thinking, the intention to name and avoid national authorities in the legislative package is integrated. Thus, in the closing debate and in order to seal it, we would like to emphasise that, in addition to the cultural values created by the local authorities and the cultural institution system, the value of the cultural buoyancy generated by nationalities, ethnic settlements and national authorities is also the value of the constitutional value of Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the spokespersons.]]
u2017-05-29-342	In this way, the Government is wholeheartedly in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting.
u2017-05-29-343	Next up is XCIX of 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing arts organisations. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/15367. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee2017. At its meeting on 25 May 2008, Mr XCIX discussed the support and specific employment rules for performing arts organisations. T/15367. Bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 25 votes in favour, 6 against and no abstentions. The summarised amendment approved the amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture, which focused only on language positioning. However, in addition, at the committee meeting, the members of the committee held an effective debate on the provisions on the leadership of the performing art organisations. It can be concluded that the amendment will make the regulation more transparent, clearly expressing the set of tools and conditions required during the management procedure of the performing arts organisations. It is also important to point out, in the context of the amendment of the law, that facilitations have been built in for the art institutions operated by municipal maintainers. I would add that the conditions for applying have not changed substantially, but in addition to the professional qualifications we have given another opportunity in the number of years spent in the art institution. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the spokespersons.]]
u2017-05-29-344	Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the proposal will enable new opportunities to be opened. That is why I am counting on the support of my fellow Members. I would like your permission to accept the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[For signal:]] Thank you, Congresswoman. I will ask Mr Peter Hoppál, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now.
u2017-05-29-345	It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Act of Performing Arts, which is addressed by the broad professional public, is the package of amendments to this package, which has gone through the various stages of discussion, indeed - thank you for the characterization of Mrs Mónika Dunai - adjusts the state of the current law to life, and provides assistance to the art institutions that can be seen in the local government's maintenance circle, not only to theatres, because many people here, have narrowed down their leadership options, but here among the performing arts organisations, we also interpret dance art and musical art organizations in this circle, and the law also applies to them. I see that, in the general debate and in the detailed debate, only political and motivated socialist opposition has actually ceased, so this objection has drowned in the final debate. I hope that the representatives of the affected faction, who have now left the ranks of their own faction empty, have recognised that the legislative amendment package that lies here in front of Parliament was not at all what they thought it would be. Here, precisely, the new state of the law will provide a helping hand to enable state and municipal maintainers to make leadership choices better and more effective. [[20.00]] This is very necessary, because life has often shown situations in which maintenance bodies have expressed opinions other than the technical committee, and on several occasions it has become doubtful that individual performers' organisations, which have previously applied for qualifications and qualifications under the law, may have obtained priority or national qualifications by not having conducted leadership elections accurately or not within the required legal deadline, so that, for example, after 12 months of waiting, they may have lost their priority or national qualifications previously obtained with very large work and high qualification tasks. The law therefore improves these problems, so we regulate these two incriminated situations by allowing gestures, and unlike that thought garland, which has been linked to all kinds of lexes, the socialist opinion makers who are now exhausted have kindly indicated. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-29-346	Thank you very much for the contribution of opposition and pro-government representatives to the debate and amendments. I believe that, since, in the final state, the relevant committees have asked for only one word to be clarified in the summary amendment, I hope that the law will point in the direction that they will be able to support it in the final vote with a broad consensus. Thank you all for your cooperation in this.
u2017-05-29-347	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The designated Cultural Committee did not present a rapporteur, so I give the floor to the Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. T/15367. Bill No. 44-45 was discussed by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, and the House Rule 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee for the bill is the house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of its notification pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the House Rules, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. No amendments were tabled to the bill or any further amendments were proposed by the Committee, and therefore the Committee will not submit an amendment closing a detailed discussion. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 8 May 2017. However, we are confident that XCIX of 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing arts organisations. The intention stated in the preamble to the Act, the promotion of the artistic life of nationalities in Hungary, the development of the necessary institution of performers and arts, and the operation of a system of support for the efficient use of public funds, will continue to be implemented in practice. The development of ethnic arts and ethnic performance-art organization systems serves the care of ethnic autonomy, the preservation of ethnic languages, the maintenance and enhancement of our physical and intellectual culture, and plays a prominent role in ensuring the survival of ethnic communities. For this reason, it would be important for us that in the future there would be provision for the replacement of ethnic theatres, the revival and annual holding of a national theatre festival, the public recognition of national theatre artists and the award of professional awards, and a national reception theatre in Budapest. However, in order for all nationalities to boast of their own well-balanced and professionally high-quality ethnic theatres, further progress would be needed, in particular in the area of funding, in addition to the positive government measures so far. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-29-348	XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. T/15367. Bill No. 1 refers to the selection of the leaders of the theatres, the order of applying for management posts. We hope that in the process of establishing the Government Decree providing detailed regulation, the Hungarian Committee of Nationalities will also be involved, and we will have the opportunity to enforce the nationality criteria in the selection of the leaders of the performing art organizations. Thank you for listening. [[No signal.]] Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask if anyone would like to comment on the agenda. I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. [[For signal:]] I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if he'd like to comment.
u2017-05-29-349	It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to make a brief addition to the proposals made by the committee on nationality, provided that Mr Lyubomir has summarised the intentions of nationalities, which are not questions concerning the scope of the law, but which are still relevant to this proposal. I would like to say to the Plenipotentiary of the National Assembly that, both at the time of the awards of state and the award of ministerial arts, at every national holiday, there are among the awardees the outstanding value-keeping and value-care, traditional arts and public education professionals of the national minority. At the same time, there is a natural need for a dedicated art festival in festival life to come as a demand from nationalities. I can say, although, once again, this is not a question under the law, that our State Secretaryship launched a new state budget fund last year, specifically to encourage art festivals, high-quality festival life, and this is an opportunity open to all maintenance and all festival organizers. This year, 500 million forints are planned to host most of the high-quality art festivals in rural areas next year. Finally, from the perspective of the maintenance environment, the current legislative amendment is not necessarily relevant to the selection of the leaders of a small number of institutions that perform very important and essential artistic tasks in the operation of the minority self-governments, since the priority and national classification exceeds these frameworks, but, of course, there is a possibility in artistic life that an institution intends to jump this goal. In this case, indeed, for the institutions of nationality, these regulations, which have just been put in place, will kindly open the door a little bit and give us the opportunity to make the choice of leaders as effective as possible. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-29-350	Thank you very much for your support. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws to increase the legal competitiveness of the business environment and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15362. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2017-05-29-351	First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I will also give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Duna. [[20.10]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed on 25 May 2017 the T/15362 on the amendment of certain laws necessary to increase the legal competitiveness of the business environment. The Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. The summarised amendment also includes, on the one hand, the text-focusing proposals of the Judicial Committee and a technical clarification. Among other things, the billing committee's motion sets out the following. In the context of the legislation on judicial enforcement, there was a need for the legislation to include an explicit provision regarding the application of the new system of division of cases which entered into force on 1 January 2017 that copies of the enforceable documents will be sent electronically to the Office of the Hungarian Executive Faculty of the Court of Justice. A distinction should therefore be made between the sending of originals and copies of enforceable documents. Therefore, the court or the body issuing the instrument of enforcement must send by electronic means copies of the documents, while not by electronic means the originals of the documents must be sent with regard to the rules for the new allocation of cases. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-29-352	Ladies and gentlemen, The regulatory environment should not be an obstacle to further improving our competitiveness, and I therefore call for the support of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[For signal:]] Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll ask Pál Völner if he wants to comment now. It says no. [[For signal:]] No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I do not see any Members' contributions, so the debate is closed. Again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he would like to speak. It says no. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the proposal for arbitration and the summary amendment are now under discussion. Government referral T/15361. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2017-05-29-353	The debate will also be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give it to the woman representing the floor. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 25 May 2017, the members of the Committee held a debate on arbitration in T/15361. About bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 24 votes in favour, 3 against and 6 abstentions.
u2017-05-29-354	The summarised amendment contains a proposal for an amendment to the Judicial Committee, to which I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members in particular. On the basis of the bill, only persons who have not yet reached the age of 75 may be added to the list of arbitration recommendations. However, dr. Gábor Staudt and dr. Csaba Gyüre made a proposal at the committee meeting to reduce this maximum age from 75 to 70 years. The Judicial Committee accepted the amendment tabled by the former opposition representatives, as it is still possible to ensure that, after reaching the retirement age, experienced judges retired in ordinary courts can use their knowledge in arbitrations for a few more years. Ladies and gentlemen, Adoption of the proposal There may be a system of arbitration in Hungary, which can be a real alternative to litigation, and foreign investors can also increase their confidence in the institution, further improving the competitiveness of our country. Please express your agreement on the bill and vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[For signal:]] Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to comment. It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I do not see a candidate to comment on the item on the agenda, so the debate is closed. Again, I will ask Mr. Secretary of State, indicating that he does not wish to comment. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda.
u2017-05-29-355	On 21st-century topics: e-sports, Mr Gergely Farkas applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik not only uses the turn of what is XXI in communication. We consider ourselves a party of the century, but this manifests itself in a number of things, such as our momentum, our youth, the XXI. in the use of communication tools corresponding to the century, or in the fact that it is a new 21st century. We're raising centuries-old issues. In my speech today, I would like to draw attention to one of these, even to e-sports, with the aim of making this a part of the public speech in our country. I would like to make it clear from the outset that I am not speaking against sport in the traditional sense, which requires physical movement - because Jobbik has already supported this type of sport and will continue to do so - but also attention must be paid to the expansion of e-sports. For e-sports to be part of public speaking, one thing is essential, and that is openness. For many people, it is necessary to achieve that he gives up his old stereotypes, which are in it, for example, that these people are alienated from the world of computer games, that they believe that the bad habit of young people, this is a waste of time, is considered to be harmful in many ways, and this is an excessive generalization, as it should be seen that spending time in this way can have a number of positive effects. E-sports should be regarded as chess or technical sports, which are not traditional sports, but are not disputed by anyone. It is important to see the positive side of such leisure activities: it can improve concentration, team skills, reflexes, speed, eye-to-hand coordination. In addition to making decisions as soon as possible, a serious strategic sense and mathematical thinking are needed to succeed in this genre. E-sports can help young people to find a better place in other areas of life. In addition, online play opens up a new dimension of community creation, provides opportunities for cross-border acquaintances, and thus allows young people to become more open. We need to see that e-sports are moving into mainstream entertainment right in front of us. This process cannot be ignored either by politics, which is why I thought it was important to talk about it within the walls of the Parliament. In the same way as among traditional athletes, e-sports are distinguished by those who practice, prepare and compete on a daily basis, but there are also those who do it only at a hobby level, which fills part of their free time. And there are fans of e-sports who play less and watch these races. On a global level, ratings are clearly reflected in the trend of growth in popularity. One of the biggest championships in e-sports in 2015, for example, has already been watched online by more people than the NBA Finals. In the competitions, advertisements for brands such as Vodafone and Audi have been published. So in the advertising industry, e-sports have already been targeted, despite the new phenomenon. More American men aged 21-35 already watch e-sports, such as one of the most watched sports there, hockey. In some U.S. universities, sports scholarships are awarded to students who play video games professionally, and they also grant visas to professional players in the United States, as well as to athletes in the Olympics. In order to mention Hungarian data, last year's information from MTI shows that e-sports in Hungary is already very popular, the Hungarian fan base can be held for 223 thousand people, and this number is expected to double by 2018, i.e. 450 thousand people. A survey carried out on behalf of an online financial service provider shows that the industry's turnover by 2018 could exceed one million dollars. So it is clear from the pace of the increase in popularity that we do not stick our heads in the sand about the phenomenon. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-356	Ladies and gentlemen, I stress once again that attention must be paid not to the detriment of traditional sport, but to the expansion of e-sports. Jobbik wants to make e-sports public, not pass the phenomenon without saying a word. Let us forget stereotypes about video game fans and recognize that it is a phenomenon of interest to a serious social class. CHAPTER XXI As a party of the century, Jobbik considers it important for politics to follow the pace of change in the world, not to aspire to the mapping of modern areas. Jobbik undertakes to become a pioneer in this role, and I hope that we can talk about what international good practices there are here in Parliament as soon as possible, which is also worth introducing in Hungary, supporting an ever-growing layer of e-sportsmen. Thank you for your attention. [[20.20]]
u2017-05-29-357	Thank you very much. Mr Zoltán Magyar applied to speak after the next agenda on the problems of Szany, Rabaszentandrás, Vág and Sobor. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Over the last few weeks, I've been getting used to thinking about the problems of some settlements in my constituency after the agenda, and I'll start with what can be said in a few words about their history.
u2017-05-29-358	Szany is inhabited by 2024 people, located on the southern edge of the Kisaland, in the Rábaköz. The 1398 diploma mentions it as Zayan, in 1427 it is already a field town. Rába also protected it from the Turks, but its floods often destroyed the settlement, so they started to build protective charges at the time. In 1783, already stood the Bishop's Palace in the settlement, the locals are rightly proud that Bishop Vilmos Apor also spent a lot of time here in the summer. From 1778 the parish priest of Szany was the renowned poet of the age, János Nagy, who actively participated in the spiritual and social life of the village. The St. Anna chapel was built in 1753 and eventually became a significant going-away place. According to the census of 1870 there were 2754 inhabitants, 733 horses, 1324 cattle, 3614 sheep, 1209 pigs and 45 cash bees in the village. But there is no way to avoid the negatives, so the emigration wave also affected the settlement, and the great fire of I898 contributed significantly to this.
u2017-05-29-359	Congressman, I'm sorry to interrupt, but there's something very wrong with your speech. I'll add the seconds. Yeah, I'm sorry.
u2017-05-29-360	Is that better?
u2017-05-29-361	Looks like it is. Thank you. The part of the village called Canada reminds me of the American sanyi, the first houses were built with the money they sent home. Cut: 440 souls live on the south side of Rábaköz, on the left bank of Rába. The first written memory from 1263, IV. It's from Bela's time. The name of the village can be derived from the verb of the cutting, suggesting that the river Rába was winding between huge forests here. The nearby river Rába and the fresh-colored fishing lake, the well-kept Wathay park, are worth visiting. Rabaszenandrás has 479 inhabitants and is located next to Szany, with a common railway station. The first written document keeping the name of the village in the form of Zenthandras was dated in 1469 at the time of King Matthias. During the Reformation, the inhabitants of Szentandras converted to evangelical faith, resulting in their priest, Miklós Borhidai, who later sentenced him to gallabage. His famous son, János Kis, saw the light of day in a modest house with a reed roof, as the third child of a seven - child serf family. Finally, I have to talk about Sobor today. 250 enthusiastic settlements, also located in the southern part of Rábaköz. In the first diploma, it was referred to as Sobur in 1314 and reports that Lőrinc Osl of the gender received it back from Miklós Kőszegi Rokas. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: In the century, Soborians - sobriacs with local dialects - mainly engaged in animal husbandry and fishing, but also had water crabs in the Rába. These settlements, unfortunately, do not live in their state of day. As it can be said from many other villages in Rábáköz, there were times when much more people lived in these settlements. I have to talk about the road network almost every week. However, with regard to these settlements, I have to say in particular that the domestic road network is also miserable for settlements a few kilometres away from the expressway. CHAPTER XXI The quality of life of the century is impossible to live with such networks, and it is no wonder that young people do not want to come back to these settlements after, say, the completion of higher education. It is also important to say that it was agriculture in these settlements, and it was mainly the food industry that built on it or the domestic activity that gave added value, which created a higher income for the people living here, and thus a more qualitative life could be imagined in these settlements. We would also need worthwhile local jobs offering decent wages, and of course not like the solar cell factory in Csorna, also a few kilometers away from these settlements, where to this day there is no way to know what has happened. They received two billion forints of support from the government, refusing to tell us how much of the $7 billion funds they received from Eximbank were called down. One thing is certain, last week security guards were sent from the area, the technology didn't arrive, the building was pulled up from a lot of forints, and none of the jobs were created. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-29-362	I hope that this will change and keep their promises and that these jobs will indeed be created in the Rába. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-29-363	Thank you. To speak after the next agenda, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs asked for the protection of the true memory of the heroes and victims fighting red terror. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to protect the true memory of the heroes and victims fighting red terror, my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, has presented a draft parliamentary resolution because on October 31, 2018 we will remember the 100th anniversary of the murder and death of István Tisza, and in this connection, in order to help with a worthy memorial, we would like to initiate the restoration of the monument of the national martyrs in the first place. We know that this monument once stood in the national square, in Kossuth Square, and in the area of related Martyrs, was the work of Richard Füredi, which was inaugurated on 18 March 1934. The name of the martyrs was listed on the memorial itself in a long line, starting with István Tisza. This was a huge, robust stone pillar, on top of which was a stone coffin with a female figure Hungaria on the side of Kossuth Square, and on the side of Szabadság tér with the monster of Bolshevism. In any case, if we want to stick to the image of the nation's main square of 44 in accordance with the earlier decree of the National Assembly, we believe that it is necessary that this monument be returned, if not to its original place, but in any case to the national main square, to the immediate surroundings of the nation's main square. In this context, in our proposal for a parliamentary resolution, we also propose that we be able to commemorate not only in Budapest, not only in the main square of the nation, but also in the whole country the death of István Clean and the further victims of the horrific red terror that followed, with grace, so that in the territory of our country, we can remove the places of worship and public spaces from all places, as heroes for its followers who live in communism, so that they live for communism and for the people! Inscriptions, as well as the totality of communist symbols. Let us imagine, fellow Members, that when someone in Hungary today wants to stop and bow to the grave of János Arany in the national graveyard, he cannot help noticing the terrible monument which is the so-called communist monument with the inscription that they lived for communism, for the people! Even to this day, such an inscription can still be found at a site where, by the way, many of our country's great dead are buried, and in some way, but this terrible inscription has not been removed. If we assume, provided, but not allowed, that there could be such an inscription anywhere in Hungary that they lived for Nazism, for the people, or for fascism, for the people, I suppose we wouldn't be surprised at the public uprising. But for some reason in Hungary today, probably because education, cultural life and public media do not provide sufficient information, this situation has not yet reached the point that such inscriptions are being carried away by the people's wrath. We would also like to take the initiative that, in accordance with the law on the local governments of Hungary, it would be mandatory to require the municipalities, local authorities, namely, that the public area should not bear the names for certain periods of authoritarianism, the words referring to their ideology, this legal place should be enforced if necessary, subject to a judicial penalty of supervision. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-29-364	We believe that all these procedures will obviously require very little money, but the House is now discussing the draft budget law for 2018, which is why we have presented this parliamentary decision to the House now, so that it is possible to link it with the budgetary resources that we have also proposed. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-05-29-365	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member László Horváth asked to speak after the last day of the agenda with the title 'Mátraalján'. You have the floor, Congressman. [[20.30]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, The extreme and rapid change in weather with global climate change is no longer a theoretical issue, unfortunately, not a dramatic series of images in one of the newscasts, but a tangible reality. This has become a tangible reality, especially for those living in Gyöngyös, Mátraalján and Mátra in the last month, because in the second half of April there has been an unprecedented, i.e. a long time ago, example of significant frost coming into this region, and then snowstorms. There was a whirlwind, several waves of hail, and then a flood. The series of images that showed that settlements could not be approached by snow storms had to be saved from this region, had the same effect as the series of images that appeared on the community portals from the falling ice. On 13 May, approximately 1000-1500 hectares of crops were damaged, and the crop losses are between 30 and 90 percent. Both ploughing, fruit and vineyards have been damaged. In this situation, farmers obviously count on and can count on the government to help the government alleviate the damage suffered. Of course, the government will do that. There is a system of agricultural compensation that, let us add, is recognised as one of the best in the EU, since many European Member States do not operate such a system, but can address occasional damage consequences. This compensation scheme compensates farmers for up to 80% of the reduction in the yield value, and it is important that it is also available to planters below 1 hectare, and also to those whose plantations would have grown this year. Let us also add that since 2012, the Compensation Fund has not been in need of resources, so since then, the legitimate needs of producers have been fully paid, and this is what will happen now. At the same time, it is very important to mention that producer self-care and awareness have a role to play, because in the context of the compensation scheme, a producer who has agricultural insurance can expect 80% support in the course of compensation, while those who do not have it is only 40 percent. However, in order to make this charge payable, an agricultural insurance premium scheme has also been in place since 2012, which will reimburse up to 65% of farmers' related expenditure. It should be added that in 2016, some HUF 4 billion of the resources of the rural development programme were used for this purpose. An important instrument, which is still available to those most in need, is the extra-reciprocal loan, loan financing facility that has been providing 100% interest and handling fee support to those in need since December 2015. This credit facility is also available until 31 May 2017 for farmers suffering frost and ice damage this year, and I can only welcome it, and a lot of people can welcome the fact that the agricultural portfolio is working to extend this credit facility.
u2017-05-29-366	As far as the future is concerned, it is also to be welcomed that the government and the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy are working together to build a national ice prevention system, which can be based on EU co-financing and is planned to be established by 1 May 2018. What is important is that the operation of this can also be financed from the Compensation Fund. Finally, Mr President, allow me to thank all those who have stood up, who have helped, who have gone to the aid of those in distress, whether they are firefighters, rescuers, or village farmers, who have made calls from profession, volunteer or without call. Thank you for your help, and thank you for your generosity. Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. [[Meeting ended at 20:36 p.m.]]
