u2017-06-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, everyone. It's 9:00. The 35th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-1	Mr President, Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday's news is that the European Commission intends to initiate infringement proceedings against Member States that are unwilling to implement quota decisions on the compulsory resettlement of illegal immigrants. We regard this new move by the European Commission as extortion and a particularly unEuropean attitude, because even the European Commission can't take away the right of everyone to decide who they want to let into their own country, so that everyone can decide for themselves, each nation should decide who they want to live with or who they don't. Only we Hungarians can decide who we let into Hungary. That is why we will not allow the blackmail of the European Commission, which is far beyond its scope, and we will not allow anyone to enter Hungary illegally. If we are talking about the illegal immigration crisis, we need to start dealing with it more on the root causes. There are few broad international consensuss, such as the fact that one of the main causes of the migration crisis is the most brutal terrorist organisation in recent years, the Islamic State, against which a very broad international cooperation has been established. Under the leadership of the United States of America, a global coalition has been a major success in recent years, since 62 percent of the territories occupied by the Islamic State have been liberated in Iraq and 30 percent in Syria, leading to the liberation of 4.1 million people. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the representatives of Hungary and thus the Hungarian Parliament can be proud of the role that Hungary has played so far in the framework of the international coalition against terrorism. More than 500 of our soldiers have served in Iraq as a result of a mandate for Parliament's decision in 2015, and more than 500 of our soldiers have taken part in the fight against the Islamic State in Iraq with great international recognition and satisfaction. We can all be proud to be among the 27 countries in the world that send real soldiers into this international fight against terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of the civilised world must be to defeat the Islamic State, because by defeating the Islamic State, we are not only addressing one of the root causes of the migration crisis, but we are significantly improving the security of the neighbourhood of Europe and Europe as a whole. The new US administration has given new impetus to the fight against the Islamic State, in which NATO has recently decided to join the Global Coalition against the Islamic State as an alliance, strengthening its role as an air reconnaissance and training in the Iraqi army. Ladies and gentlemen, The US-led global coalition therefore increases its efforts to defeat the world's most brutal terrorist organization. The activities of the world's most brutal terrorist organization can now be felt by European people, not only by migratory pressures on the continent, but also by the fact that the threat of terrorism has now become part of everyday life in the territory of the European Union. Therefore, in order to overcome the Islamic State completely, the Hungarian Government proposes that Hungary, like the other participants of the global coalition, increase its contribution, and increase Hungary's efforts to fight against the Islamic State. We propose to increase the number of our military contingent of 150 so far to 200, in order to increase the value of the contribution, we recommend that the territorial mandate be broadened within Iraq, and we recommend that in addition to guarding, team escorting and training functions, military assistance and advisory functions should be included in the military contingent's mandate. We have announced this proposal to the leaders of the global coalition, we have consulted the Iraqi Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we have also agreed with the Kurdish regional authority. They all assured this proposal of their appreciation and expressed their appreciation for the Hungarian engagement so far, and they await the decision of the Hungarian Parliament. Therefore, on behalf of the Government, I would like to ask Members of Parliament to confirm our broad consensus established in 2015 and to extend the mandate of the Hungarian military contingent until the end of 2019 so that Hungary can contribute to the case, perhaps having the largest international consensus in the past period, to the international fight against terrorism. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the Right Party and the Government.]]
u2017-06-13-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I will ask the political groups if they wish to speak in a two-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] Yes, Tamás Bellozó, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, There were two parts of his speech, and I think it's important for both of them to be clear. First of all, there is a hate campaign here in Hungary, among other things, with the discrediting of the opposition, lying all over the place, but there is one thing that needs to be treated as a fact. In February 2016, your boss, Viktor Orbán, provided the Council of Europe's statement with his own signature. This contains the following, and I quote literally:. Last December's relocation decisions must be implemented in all their elements. Sincerely, Viktor Orbán. This sentence represents the decision of the European Union to distribute a thousand, two hundred and so many migrants to our country. The Hungarian Prime Minister signed this agreement, this declaration, and not the Hungarian opposition - that is what it is. If Viktor Orbán lies all over the place where he goes, when someone has to say what, sooner or later he's gonna get caught. This is a classified case. And the Hungarian Socialist Party has never supported or voted in favour of the European Union's proposal for an automatic resettlement quota here in Parliament, and we ourselves consider it to be a failure. As far as the fight against terrorism is concerned, we are very much in agreement with each other, and I think we fully support each other in this regard. I've had the pleasure of seeing our soldiers out there in Kurdistan, Northern Iraq. Indeed, they perform their ministry at the highest possible level, including the pride of our country and the pride of the world. We trust them, but not you, Minister. And the fact that the Foreign Minister is speaking before the agenda on the military mission to act against the Islamic State says a lot about what this engagement is. At our committee meeting, it became clear that the Ministry of Defence has no idea why we're going out, how many of us are going out, how many of us are going out, how many of us are asking for. Therefore, in such an uncertain situation, we cannot share the responsibility of the decision with you. We're gonna vote no today. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-4	Thank you. Congressman Zsolt Németh, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-5	Mr President, Dear House, I think that regarding the resettlement quota, the position which party represents is clear to the Hungarian public. It is a very regrettable manifestation of the fight against terrorism that the European Parliament is protecting H. Ahmed when we face such extremely serious problems in the Middle East. [[9.10]] However, the EU's position on resettlement quotas can also be taken into account in a series of crises. At the same time, this fight can only be continued if we have sufficient support from our regional partners. As regards the action against ISIS, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I think that the Government's proposal is very forward-looking. To play a role in the fight against the Islamic State by 200 people, or to play a role in NATO's action, and to increase the Hungarian defence expenditure to 2 percent, these are all steps that a sound and prudent political force simply cannot oppose. We are confused about the behaviour of the MSZP. We have not been able to convince ourselves in the previous minutes why the Hungarian Socialist Party is opposed to this completely reasonable decision. I believe that if we do not eliminate the causes of terrorism in the Middle East, we cannot act effectively against it, and we therefore support the government's proposal in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-13-6	Thank you. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik.
u2017-06-13-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, I believe we can agree on the assessment of ISIS, because we can talk about the greatest challenge of our time and find that ISIS is currently the greatest threat to Western civilization, to the whole world, to the Middle East, to Christian and Muslim believers as well as to the region and around the world. But we no longer fully agree on the tasks and responsibilities of Hungary in relation to this conflict, as Minister for Foreign Affairs also began by discussing the root causes, but he did not agree on how the Middle East actually went up in flames, as a result of its great power play, and how ISIS was created in the vacuum created by this policy. The West has a major role to play in the recent destabilisation of the government in Yemen in Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Libya, and the destabilisation of the entire region, and nothing has changed since then. The West and the great powers have been playing a cynical political game ever since, and we do not see any military, political, diplomatic strategy on how to bring peace and stability back to this region; however, the spread of responsibility is taking place through the federal system, while the western great powers, our allies, wink at each other and continue to coquet with powers that openly support terrorism there in the region. This is a cynical and perfidious great power policy, an act in which we cannot risk the lives of the Hungarian people, nor our soldiers, who will be sent there under the title of peace-building, nor the citizens of Hungary, who will thus be put at risk of terrorism. Hungary, the Hungarian diplomacy, has the responsibility to explain the Hungarian position, to solve the problem in a military way by those who caused it, Hungary's task is to participate in humanitarian aid and international cooperation. This should be the responsibility of Hungarian diplomacy. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-8	Thank you. Congressman Mátyás Firtl, KDNP!
u2017-06-13-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, KDNP supports the government to protect the safety of Hungarian people by any means possible. Our Christian Democratic policy is value-based. It has always been a strong representation of the idea system of Adenauer, Schuman, De Gasperi, which rebuilt Europe from its ruins and ensured peace more than seventy years ago. We are convinced that the power of communities is in identity. Europe's identity is based on Jewish-Christian civilization and tradition, Greek-Latin culture. Europe is now in a crisis of identity, unprotected against terror. As a result of the loss of value and identity, while European citizens are being threatened by terrorism, the European Parliament is protecting terrorists, which, to my shame, is also taking part in the Hungarian left. The only solution to survival is to return to the heritage of the founding fathers, to enforce the basic values. It is unacceptable for a terrorist organization to commit physical destruction by brutal genocide, by Christian and other religious denominations, and to commit a crime against humanity. The causes of migration must be eliminated where they arise. Further murders must be stopped, zero tolerance to terror must be applied. The Christian Democratic People's Party is therefore in favour of extending the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State and of increasing the number of people. We will protect our families and our culture, no matter how big the Brussels counterwind, we will not allow Brussels to force us into resettlement programmes. Anyone who supports immigration breaks down the fence, installs migrants on Hungary, acts against our nation. We will not allow this on the basis of the confirmation received in the national consultation. You can count on the support of the Christian Democratic Group. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-13-10	Congressman Ákos Hadházy, LMP! Here you go.
u2017-06-13-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At any time in this House there is the word "save" and "terrorist," the essence of which is only one great lie, which was said literally yesterday by András Kósa, the spiritual wellhead of the Fidesz faction, the control star of the Fidesz faction. [[Uproar and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Fidesz, among them: Louis! Sit down.]] - Lajos Kósa said that when the opposition comes, the millions of refugees will come, and the opposition has only one task, and that it will tell the millions of refugees. Obviously, that's a mean lie. We agree that the refugee crisis exists, and we agree that terrorism is also a serious problem, and we agree that this must be resolved. We do not agree that terrorists should be helped by trying to keep Hungarian people in fear in huge billion-dollar campaigns and by raising constant fear in Hungarian people. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: What are you talking about?]] We don't agree on that. In this you are the best allies of terrorists, because terrorism has only one goal: in people, in society, we must create fear. [[Intercom from Fidesz: Sit down...]] We also do not agree that you are trying to destroy the European Union under the title of terrorism and are trying to destroy virtually everything that Hungarian diplomacy has built in recent decades. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: You're the one running amok!]] Obviously, we need unity against terrorism, we need unity in Europe. It's a huge problem, and without it, it can't be solved without a unit. That's what you want to destroy. Since you have been very successful in one way or another, that your renome, your diplomatic renome, has been completely destroyed, you obviously want to compensate with such a proposal. Obviously, this proposal cannot be supported without NATO authorisation and cannot be supported without particular justification. There's only one reason they want to compensate for your destruction. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-12	Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches before the agenda. Tamás Harangozó was the first among them to apply for a speech: the title of his speech is on the 1st of July. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the autumn session last year, the Parliament declared the day of social work a public holiday on the basis of the government's proposal. In addition, in the same bill, the day of civil servants was abolished and the declaration of civil servants' day as a public holiday was abolished. Who else could have noted this fine bill, such as János Lázár, Minister of State Administration, and Zoltán Balog, including human! - Minister of Resources, that from now on we will not greet or celebrate the country's public servants. Lázár, everyone is worth as much as he has, John went so far as to add another kind half sentence as a justification, and I quote: "It must also be terminated because it is a perverted communist legacy, the civil servant's day. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's right.]] [[9.20]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all those perverted communists made this rule in the Hungarian Parliament as follows. The first perverted communist team was the MDF in 1992, which introduced the declaration of civil servant day as a public holiday day. The next perverted communist team were you during the first Orbán government in 2001 when a comprehensive amendment to this day was held for civil servants, and in 2011 the third Orbán government also left it in the Act on Government Officials and held this celebration of the public service as part of the law. Minister Lazarus may still remember - it would be good for him to remember - how much his mayor, his officials, his municipal colleagues worked to make him a successful mayor. We know that the Glossy Minister alone, with one hand, solves all the problems, but let us not underestimate the performance of his colleagues, either in the local government or now in the military of the people working in the ministry who are trying to stand up for them. I can say something similar to Mr. Secretary's speech. There was a Minister of SZDSZ who, on a statement from the Union of Civil Officials, in which they missed the conciliation at the Ministry's redesign, responded that they did not ask the frogs whether they were draining the swamp. That's the János Kóka you like to do business with in China right now. So, in vain, they call upon the SDS when they remember your statement or the statement of János Lázár, as rude as the former liberal minister's. Unfortunately, this can't be called anything else, because it is people, my honourable fellow Members, not slaves and, of course, not frogs. On behalf of the MSZP, I am going to give the public service workers a slap and wish them good health, happy family life, enforceable laws, decent pay and sane political bosses on the occasion of the upcoming civil servants' day. They are the ones who try to do the tricky things of people who have been let down by the Orbán government in government offices and municipal offices every day. They are the ones who are trying to apply fairly the inconsistent laws you put together, who, because of their livelihood, are forced to tolerate the fucking of the local Fidesz small kings, throwing them into a crisis of conscience, when they are idly, unwittingly looking at them so eagerly in local governments, using the community's money to their own advantage. Civil servants are those who, without professional and decent work, have no rule of law, so they deserve respect and respect. Luckily, that's what they think of more than one municipality. For when you authorised the local authorities to pay for this holiday with their own money, I would like to say with pleasure that many municipalities, including even right-wing municipalities, thought that they would do so, and a lot of municipal regulations have taken advantage of this opportunity. You know, because they know that these people are primarily people who organize, operate and, not least, represent the Hungarian state. And indeed, these people enjoy appreciation, recognition, and the fact that, beyond the daily robot, as a community, whether in the company of their families or loved ones, they will be honored to do even better in the remaining 364 days. Only Fidesz does not know that Hungary is not his servant, that this country is not your slaves. I believe that, after the change of government, we can give samples of honest government, and that the Botka government officials do not have to fear that they will be treated as slaves. Thank you for your work, thanks to government officials, civil servants for their year-round work. Thank you for listening.
u2017-06-13-14	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Csepreghy will respond. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to make some basic statements on behalf of the government regarding the work of government officials. The current government considers the entire administration, its territorial and central bodies, as a significant factor in the country's competitiveness. If this statement is accepted - and perhaps there is no debate between us regardless of political ideological beliefs - then it must also be accepted that if the people to whom the public administration must serve - I think of citizens or companies - have a working day, then those who must serve these people must have a working day in the same way. We believe that the respect of government employees should not be done on days off, not on days off to spot their eyes. When it is possible to give a day off due to the country's economic performance, it should affect all workers, as in the case of Friday, all workers, including those working in the public administration and the regional administration, are given the same day off as everyone else who works in Hungary. As opposed to you, you know, Mr President, one of the major differences in the appreciation of government officials is that we also wanted to touch and touch the wage balance as we did not do it on credit, completely ignoring the country's economic performance, abandoning the budget deficit and the country's debt, as you did between 2002 and 2010. We have always said that everyone has the same opportunity and the opportunity to move forward with the country's economic performance, and we have done this step by step in the administration sector, in the public sector. We said that first of all, the pay conditions for those facing the most pressing problems and working in sectors where there was no proper wage arrangement before decades, and the working conditions were not given, were not given. According to the expectations of the century. Such was education, such was health care, and such was the area of social care. But, of course, for those working in the territorial administration, the law on public officials also provided the question of the task and the wage arrangement proportionate to responsibility, and we did not start with a completely undifferentiated system, but in a system where we also gave tangible help to those who - let us say it quite frankly - you forgot about before 2010, so we started the process of settling wages with those people in the district offices who have the most customer relations. Thus, the wages of those with higher education in these areas increased by an average of 30 percent, the wages of those with graduations by an average of 50 percent, and the wages of the number of administrators by an average of 40 percent. With regard to government officials, this means 36,000 people, which means that when this programme ends at county level - this will happen until the elections in 2018 - we were able to provide an average wage arrangement of between 10 and 50 percent for colleagues working in the territorial and central administration of the state administration. However, it should also be borne in mind that this government has also provided significant assistance in terms of the different costs of everyday life, in particular, measures relating to reduction of overhead costs, reduction of personal income tax or family home support, and that, behind each step, it is measurable and proportionate to the country's economic performance. We believe that it is not a day off to spot out the eyes of employees working in government and regional administrations, but to provide them with real help, which can be achieved in terms of material appreciation and improving working conditions. In this respect, you have not achieved a substantial change between 2002 and 2010. The wages of the Ministry's central MSZP cadres were regularly increased, but the people who deal with most clients in the territorial administration and who do most of the paperwork did not contribute to their wages in a meaningful way. Right now, they're talking about what they'd do if they got the voter's approval. I think the most important question is what they did when they had this mandate. Basically, nothing. Thank you for your attention, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-13-16	Dear Parliament, János Volner, leader of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. The title of his speech was:.. Why do you exercise a communist opinion document on a billboard? Here you go.
u2017-06-13-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a bill on the cleaning up of party funding, which requires that giant posters will not be bought under a list price, and parties will not have this option. By the way, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that those who have done this law probably have never seen a commercial company up close, because there are such things as quantitative discounts, and practically everyone buying under a list price, who does not buy one piece or two pieces, but in quantities. [[9.30]] The law is, therefore, extremely unprofessional and extremely bad in this respect. It would have been easier to call the law lex Simicka, by the way. This law speaks of the fact that there were two good friends, two former college roommates, and today they are both multibillionaires; one was called Viktor Orbán, and the other was Lajos Simicska. There was a G-day when one good friend called the other with a famous sign, and then the fight got ugly. Viktor Orbán was the stronger dog in this fight. He was the one who cut Lajos Simicska out of all the public procurements, kicked all the people connected to Simicska out of all the administrative posts, and practically did everything they could to destroy all Simicska's companies. Shortly after we were there, it was also the question of the poster, that Mahir's posters, as proved subsequently, were illegally removed from the public areas of Budapest by the Orbán government, and then, according to the court's decision, was forced to reinstate them. But it is worth seeing how Fidesz, who was involved in the headquarters, and who is now talking about party financing, started its own party financing. This story began with the fact that Fidesz made a pact with the MDF that derailed the regime and sold the country out to foreigners in order to get to the headquarters. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks:]] It happened, they got their own headquarters, and shortly afterwards they sold it, otherwise at an unreally high price, for HUF 640 million. Counting today's value, the share on Fidesz would amount to HUF 5 billion, ladies and gentlemen. And who managed to sell it at an unrealisticly high price? A bank that was state-owned at the time, and now, typical of your system of stroys, can be regarded as a private investor, a company linked to Lőrinc Mészáros. So you're still state-owned, now you're privately owned. So their first job at Fidesz was to buy back their headquarters with a state-owned credit institution, and then, with this money, it was now admitted and proven that Fidesz' various leaders had the money in their accounts, and it was admitted to the Orbán family's account for millions of forints. Well, that's how Fidesz's party funding started! At this time, there was more weirdness. One of the findings of the State Audit Office is that the Fidesz party cash register simply lost millions of forints. No criminal proceedings, nothing followed this. Of course, we shouldn't be surprised at this, because the headquarters party was committed by Fidesz together with the MDF, which derailed the regime and led the police and the prosecutor's office during this period. So that's how you started your own party funding. I'll add that when they're terrified of Simicka, they've freed their own spirits from the bottle, they're terrified of him. He was the one who made Viktor Orbán Prime Minister three times; he was the one who, after fighting with each other, attacked the Prime Minister and started a serious war. It is also important to see that Fidesz, who lectures on clean public life and Christianity, talks about poster financing, the cleansing of public life, which, by the way, is being organised by the assistant of the head of the parliamentary faction, by Fidesz activists throughout the country to destroy the Jobbik posters. It turns out that, according to Christian national values, Fidesz activists are now ruining posters and ruining them. Now, the government coalition is working on trying to get this whole pathetic bill accepted by some opposition representatives who sit behind me, in the last row, among the independents, if possible, not to be present, because if they are not present, there will be two thirds of the Fidesz required in the legislation to accept this completely pitiful and personalized amendment. Of course, the Jobbik fraction will not be able to support this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-18	Thank you very much. I'm asking you who you want to speak for the government. Mr. Secretary of State Dömötör has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, When we saw that he was talking about the posters, we were a little crazy because we were hoping that Jobbik would finally explain what he was doing and why he was doing in this area. Instead, we regretted the fact that it was only available for a plea on behalf of a billionaire. So, in this case, we can also say that Jobbik has come a very long way, and that long journey is actually a 180-degree turnaround, which goes against their previous position. Let's look at the circumstances. In 2013 and 2014, during their poster campaign at that time, you said that you would like to avoid Lajos Simicska's empire. A year or two passed, and the favorite site of Jobbik became the poster park of Lajos Simicska. This also means that they are now acting as proxy for the billionaire. Your speech was more like the speech of a lobbyist than the speech of an independent politician. Well, it can't be easy working as a public courier here in Parliament. And, by the way, it's very instructive how Jobbik reports to the public about a poster campaign attacking the government that's been going on for the third month now. At first, they said they had no idea how many posters they ordered. So they have no idea how much it costs. Knowing the scale of the costs, this is astounding in itself, as is the fact that the party president keeps pointing at the party director. They then made the inability to claim that these campaigns had received a loan of 150 million. On the one hand, it is hard to believe because, according to press reports, your party president wrote a complaint to the Banking Association, complaining that Jobbik was not getting any credit. They also said they'd find another way. Well, we can see they've solved it. On the other hand, the story is limping because the price of a poster campaign of this magnitude, which is now running for the third month, could exceed HUF 2 billion. [[Dóra Dúró: 2224 pieces.]] If a market participant were to register on the market and try to order posters of this magnitude, this would be the amount. To perceive this magnitude, this is more than four times what Jobbik receives as state aid. Four times, Your Honour. Either way, the difference between the market price and the price paid by Jobbik could have been borne by their billionaire owner. If that's the case, then it's a covert party fund. I think it's one of the most serious forms of corruption, because it's capable of keeping me in check and stripping a party of its own will. There's no more serious corruption than buying a party all the way to the end. And in your case, there is a suspicion that this has happened. Dear Chief of Staff, To sum up the point, you're talking about how many posters you're ordering. [[Dóra Dúró: 2224.]] With reference to business secrets, they don't tell you how much this cost; you think it's a business. And third of all, they're lying silent and refusing to tell us how the costs were covered. To such a party, I think, let alone the country's governance, but public money cannot be very trusted either. Dear House, On the table, there's a billboard amendment on the agenda, and you referred to it in your defense, which would prevent the covert party funding. We want to ensure that billionaires in Hungary are not able to interfere with party competition with hidden money pumps. Tomorrow, this week is the vote on this regulation. Then the monkey will jump into the water; I could say that many monkeys will jump into the water. If other parties than Jobbik will oppose the proposal, then it will indicate that the exposure to billionaires in Hungary is much more significant than we thought. This distorts democratic competition [[Defiance in the Jobbik faction.]] That's another reason to fight these phenomena with double force. Dear Chief of Staff, It was not so long ago that your party president, the president of Jobbik, declared that he would invite Lajos Simicska into Parliament to account for the billions. It wasn't that long ago. We recommend that you make a statement as to whether this proposal still exists. [[Dóra Dúró: Yes.]] In particular, in addition to the billionaire, we now have something to tell you. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: After Lőrinc Mészáros.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-13-20	Dear Parliament, KDNP's representative, Mr László Szászfalvi, submitted a pre-meeting address on the most important issues of the spring session. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of the Christian Democratic People's Party was to protect and support Hungarian families in the spring session. The family is the most important basic cell in society; a healthy, strong society can only be built up from healthy, strong families. [[9.40]] In our view, the family is a living community of parents, grandparents and children, which we need to see together and which we need to help, strengthen and support in a unified, complex way. That is why we supported the government's efforts to help and support pensioners, parents' age groups and children, i.e. the Hungarian families. In the last seven years, according to our election promise, we have preserved the purchasing value of pensions, and we have even returned the 13th month pension of pensioners, which the Socialists have taken away. In addition, at the end of last year, all pensioners could receive a HUF 10 000 Erzsébet voucher. Thanks to the good performance of the economy, we can now be realistic about paying pensions to pensioners next year, in addition to the increase in pension according to the law. In terms of the age group of parents, our goal in the last seven years was not only to create jobs, increase and strengthen employment, but also to raise wages, in line with the programme of work, instead of aid. In many areas, career models, the establishment and expansion of the family tax system and the highest wage and guaranteed wage levels of the last 27 years have been launched to help strengthen families. The children's age group is supported and supported by a wide range of financial and institutional networks in the family support system. Let me now highlight two specific areas from recent months, in view of the short time, in which the KDNP faction has also actively participated. One was an amendment to the enforcement law, which helped families in vulnerable situations. Over the years, the government has created several debt relief packages to help troubled debtors: end-of-payment, exchange rate barrier, forintification, family bankruptcy or the National Asset Manager. These helped or raised hundreds of thousands of families from the situation in which they were transferred by foreign exchange loans. However, there are still over 100,000 families who have not been able to pay the repayments and have not paid for more than three months. To help them, we have accepted - our proposal - an amendment to the implementing law, which allows only a valid purchase offer to be made at the starting price in the event of the sale of residential property, compared to the previous 70 percent. In the case of multiple auctions, a valid bid of at least 90 per cent of the starting price may be valid if one year has passed since the publication of the continuous auction notice and the residential property has not yet been validated. With this device, we were able to help up to 150,000 families. The second is the 2018 budget, also the chapter on family support. We can spend some 1900 billion forints next year, about 8 percent more than this year, about 140 billion forints more in support of families who have children and foster families. This represents twice the amount of money and resources to support families compared to 2010. In 2018, more than HUF 5 billion is available for children's camping under the Erzsébet programme, we can spend HUF 80 billion on free children's meals and the free textbook program, which will support more than 1 million children, will also help these families and children. Finally, in a sentence let me remember the national consultation, which supports this policy of the Hungarian government in the opinion of the Hungarian people, the essence of which is to protect Hungary, protect the Hungarian families, protect our sovereignty, protect our independence, so that we can decide our own fate, our own lives, not Brussels. We continue to support these efforts by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-13-22	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Compared to the discussions before 2010, the current debates differ in that Members are now debating or exchanging ideas in this House about which sector, in what schedule, how much more to get, where to increase wages, where to grow in two years, where to grow in four years, where to start and continue to raise wages. This is a completely different debate compared to what this government inherited in 2010, where it was all about taking a month's wages, austerity, less money, or people had to pay a visitation fee, hospital daily rates, it is planned that they would receive the public services that they have received completely free of charge since 2010. And we can even talk about pensioners here, because they were hit the most by the time a month's allowance was taken from them, and a lot of what was needed for their everyday life needs was expensive. Compared to this, we are now talking year after year about the fact that the VAT on the most basic food for people with little money is the lowest level in Hungary, the least public burden is on the products that these people are buying, and the biggest difficulty for them is paying them. And we can talk about how much more people work, how much more people have incomes instead of benefits. In addition, in the field of education and health, there was a lot of new and positive development during the spring session. If I can highlight, for example, a few decisions in the field of education, perhaps one of the most important ones is that, based on this spring's decision, from 1 September this year, all elementary school students will receive their textbook packages free of charge. We said that this is not a social benefit, it is not a family allowance, it is not only for poor children, it is for free, it is for everyone, because this is a burden that the government and the state are taking over and we have accelerated this programme. In the last few years, a new year will receive the textbooks free of charge, and now all 8 years will receive them free of charge in primary school, not only the first grade in secondary school, but also the first grade in high school, so we will increase the number of students in one year by 39 percent, this means 285 thousand students, about that many families who receive textbooks free of charge. From 1 September this year we finally got to the point that more than one million students in Hungary will receive textbooks free of charge in schools. We want to encourage the best students to research both for students and teachers with a new national excellence programme, which, also following this year's decision, will rise from HUF 2.2 billion to HUF 4 billion. In health care we are in the sector's largest wage increase programme, a 26,5 percent wage increase has already been made last year, this year continues by 12 percent. In the case of paramedics, there will be an extra 10 percent from January, followed by an additional 8 and 8 percent in the case of nurses next November. In the case of doctors, the increase of 107,000 forints has already been made, and this year there will be a further increase of 100,000 forints. This HUF 207,000 increase in medical wages, I think, is an order of magnitude that few people would have thought in 2010 that Hungary could become so strong that it could increase doctors' salaries by HUF 207 thousand in two years. Hungary is lagging behind here, not only in the last 25 years, but we can say that in recent decades, generations too, there has been a very big lag in health wages. There has now been a very radical increase. I think few people remember if there ever was one. There has certainly not been a similar increase in health wages since the change of regime, and this is based on the performance of the economy rather than on loans. It is important that we now live the third year when the monthly income, card money, point money, as previously called, of the general practitioners in primary care increases by 130 thousand forints. This rose by 130-130 thousand forints per month last year, as well, and it is planned to increase further in the budget for next year. It is therefore not a one-off increase for general doctors, not a one-time, quasi-gest or campaign-like promise, but a predictable, long-term programme in which there is an increase in the funding of practices, and working as a general physician for a young doctor or a general practitioner is a prospect, as this has been rising for years. I can mention the residency support programme, 3800 young people have already participated in it, but among the decisions made this year, it is important that the applications for this year's GP residency application are almost doubled, since now up to HUF 20 million is awarded free-to-use residency support to a doctor who has completed a longer-term GP practice. Continue to disinherit the major social institutions and continue [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How much has been done in the last few months as a positive decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-13-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of the Committee on European Affairs:.25 years old. Here you go. [[9.50]]
u2017-06-13-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, I would like to commemorate an anniversary. 25 years ago, the Committee on European Affairs was the first to be established in Central Europe, with the unanimous support of this House. In the last quarter of a century, a body with different names has contributed to Hungary being a full member of the European Union today. Today, in cooperation with the government, we are involved in the exercise of the rights of the Member States, i.e. Hungary. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to briefly describe the events of the last quarter of a century. The inaugural meeting of the 15 members was held on 24 September, and the first period of our work was a period of search in a good sense, and then our activity was truly completed during the parliamentary term between 94 and 98. The emphasis has already been placed on preparing for membership. One important step was the establishment of a joint body with the European Parliament, the so-called Joint Association Parliamentary Committee, in 94, and this institution has also done a very good service in promoting the integration of the country. Then, in March 98, the accession negotiations that started were a whole new task, a new challenge for us. At that time, the emphasis was shifted to parliamentary scrutiny of the negotiations, and our members, by the way, were actively involved in the work of the European Convention establishing the Constitutional Treaty in Brussels, and, unfortunately, in the autumn of 2002, our committee organised a so-called road show to prepare a successful future EU referendum. The mature era of our Commission's history began with our membership of the EU when we developed the 2004 LIII, which governs cooperation between Parliament and the Government in EU matters. Law. On this basis, our committee has been given exceptional powers, and instead of the plenary session, we have conducted the conciliation procedure, which means the government's control of the negotiating position in the Council. Then the parliamentary dimension of the first Hungarian EU Presidency was of historical importance in the life of our committee. Well, in 2011, we, along with the government, went through the baptism of fire. For six months, we organised the meetings of the European Affairs Committees of the parliaments of the Member States, and I feel that we have contributed a little bit to the successful Hungarian EU Presidency, proving that we not only understand and have learned the way the Union works, but we are able to lead it. Dear Parliament, During the six years since our 2011 Presidency, we have seen a new face to our committee, new challenges, we could say: a strong defence and representation of national interests on the basis of the Lisbon Treaty. The Lisbon Treaty has put into our hands a very important weapon of law, when, recalling the vision of the United States of Europe, the European Commission has systematically begun to reduce Member States' competences by increasing so-called stealth powers. I feel we need to act decisively against this. As the government does in the European Council, we, honourable Members, must speak out against Brussels' centralising policy by conducting the subsidiarity inquiry. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, on the basis of the reports of the committee that I have led, the Parliament has, in recent years, shown a yellow paper against the legislative plan of 6 - I repeat, six - Brussels, that is to say, an objection to protecting the interests of the Hungarian people, whether in relation to compulsory resettlement or even in relation to the reduction of the rent. And we must also act, honourable Members, because the European Parliament, we have just heard, needs the protection of Ahmed H. as a terrorist. Well, fellow Members, this is not the kind of Europe we dreamed of 25 years ago. Finally, Mr President, as the founding chairman of the committee, I would like to thank all the former Commission Presidents and Members for their contribution to the successful functioning of our committee over the last two and a half decades. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-13-26	Thank you very much. Szabolcs Takács, Secretary of State, responds. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-27	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Members, Dear House, As we have heard from Member Richard Hörcsik, President of the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs was established 25 years ago, in 1992, for the first time in the Eastern Central European region. Indeed, the Panel played a key role in preparing our accession to the EU in 2004 and then made a significant contribution to the success of the 2011 Hungarian EU Presidency. In the last 25 years, the committee's name, function and activities have changed. The Lisbon Treaty, which entered into force in 2009, and the 2012 XXXVI on Parliament. Law significantly changed the EU's tasks of national legislation, including the Committee on European Affairs. The most important task of the Committee on European Affairs is that the Hungarian Parliament exercises control over the legislative activities of the government and the European Union through this body, which is mainly carried out in three forms. On the one hand, the committee's meetings are regularly reported on the various EU organisations and draft EU legislation by the members of the government, including at least once a year by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice and the representatives of the European Commission. This body will hear the government's candidates to be appointed to the EU institutions, and the ambassador of the Member State holding the current EU Presidency will present his country's priorities every six months. On the other hand, in the framework of the so-called conciliation procedure, the government and the Parliament jointly establish the Hungarian position to be taken on the EU's initiatives which are crucial for our country. This is perhaps the most important authority of the Committee on European Affairs, since during the conciliation procedure the panel has decisive powers, so it can adopt its resolution on behalf of the entire Parliament, which sets out the government's position on the EU forums with binding force. The committee's last meeting of 18 April 2017 initiated a conciliation procedure on current EU proposals that are extremely important for Hungary from both an economic and social and political point of view: a draft regulation and a directive on the internal market in electricity, the establishment of an EU agency for cooperation of energy regulators, the coordination of social security systems and the draft regulation and directive relating to the introduction of the European service E-card. Thirdly, one of the most important EU powers conferred by the Lisbon Treaty on national parliaments is to monitor the implementation of the subsidiarity principle. In this context, the legislative procedure shall examine the relevant draft Union and shall verify that the Union acts in a given area only when and in so far as the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore be better enforced at Union level. In recent years, as we have heard from Mr President, the Hungarian Parliament has adopted six reasoned opinions stating that there is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity: the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the crisis mechanism for asylum relocation, the revision of the Posting Directive, the internal market for electricity and the common rules for the internal market in electricity and the draft Dublin IV regulation. Indeed, it is extremely regrettable that the draft of the Posting of Workers Directive, which seriously divides the Member States and significantly distorts the internal market, remains unchanged despite the fact that a total of 14 chambers of national Parliaments in 11 Member States have launched the so-called yellow flat procedure with the largest number of reasoned opinions so far. The Hungarian Government consistently takes the view that the European Union must base its policy on transparency and respect for contractual powers and democratic legitimacy, and as an important element we support the strengthening of the role of national parliaments in EU decision-making. [[10.00]] We therefore regularly stress that the European Commission should consider and respect the objections expressed in opinions sent in national reasoned opinions or in political dialogue, and not sweep off the table more than a dozen democratically elected legislative positions. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The Parliament and the Committee on European Affairs can continue to count on the government's support to represent the interests of the Hungarian people and to defend our national objectives. With two and a half decades of successful cooperation, I trust him behind our backs...
u2017-06-13-28	Mr. Secretary.
u2017-06-13-29	... that despite our considerable achievements, we can say that the greatest successes are still ahead of us. Mr President, I wish you every success in this committee's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-13-30	We all wish you success. One of the foundations of success is accuracy, and I would like to ask you to abide by the house rules. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, has now applied for a speech before the agenda:. 13 reasons for going to prison! It's an address. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During last week, the Kúria sentenced Miklós Tátrai and Zsolt Császy, Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. to three and two-and-a-half years in prison for attempted misappropriation. former leaders. A third-degree verdict is final. This is an attempt at unfaithful treatment, and I am obviously immediately asking whether you, who do this every week, will get what, but that is not the question, but how the question of this case turned out, because Viktor Orbán mentioned 13 cases of opposition regularly, in which he wanted the previous governments to be accounted for at the time of his administration. The matter of election software: it didn't even turn into an investigation. Daimler-Volánbus scandal: there was no meaningful result. BKV scandal: there has been an official investigation, the police have been investigating several lines, but to date, no substantive progress has been made in the most important positions. Sukoro Lands: this is the only result that can be shown for the LMP's intervention, in many cases personally by LMP members, executives have reported in this case, this is the only one in which results can be presented. Bábolna Lands: Fate is interesting, because with you, who are now playing the Monsanto of the Bábolna Lands, this may be another topic when you leave. The case of the new headquarters of the MTV, the case of the headquarters of Magyar Posta: in neither of them there was an official substantive result, both of which were investigated, but nothing happened. The sale of Budapest Airport and the sale and recovery of Malév: there was no meaningful result. Some state leaders are offshore companies: they have more offshore companies for your state leaders, obviously there hasn't been any action here. Police abuse in 2006. The severance payments of the heads of state companies: this should also be considered now, how much you will give to your parachutized people. Falsifying the budget figures: Ferenc Gyurcsány and János Veres were not able to get into your parliamentary committee at all, and accordingly nothing came of it. The question of the fall of the government quarter: despite the irregularities identified by the State Audit Office in 2008, nothing has also happened. They had 13 points, and they couldn't produce any results, which is obviously also capable of proving your government incompetence perfectly. Just in order for you to get 13 points, we've also scored 13 points, what, if the good Lord says the LMP will have a chance, there will be a guarantee of accountability. 1. The case of abuse of EU funds, the background of Esos and Voldemorts. 2. In the case of agricultural subsidies, farm subsidies on the Hold Street market and unauthorized claims, no results can be seen, and then we will do the same. 3. A wide-ranging aspect of the issue of settlement bonds is political relations. 4. Rules restricting business life, such as aspects of the Traffic Act affected by business influence and parts of the tendering system relating to the purity of the tender system. 5. Monitoring the political influence of successful companies with high performance in public procurement and the purity of public procurement. 6. Investigating, financing, over-spending and over-invoicing of infringements caused by priority investments. 7. The issue of land applications and land privatisation: it is necessary to examine these points in criminal proceedings both in civil acts and in cases of fraudulent treatment. 8. Advertising spending, advertising expenditure of companies in the state monopoly situation, with particular attention to the support of the CF and other similar political organisations and the political relations of those who provide advertising services, referring here to Minister Rogán's dear neighbours. 9. We consider it appropriate to investigate the continued overspending and use of resources of the government media called the public service. 10. The case of MNB foundations that have lost their public finances and the use of resources by the Hungarian National Bank itself, namely President Matolcsy. 11. The examination of the direct impact of billionaires on legislation, whether we are talking about agricultural integration or anything else, will be justified by examining the influence of Sándor Csányi and Lőrinc Mészáros12. Russian influence and crimes related to treason can consistently be caught by the government in some cases.13. Last but not least, the question of the prosecution's accomplice is what will require accountability. Here's our 13 points, and we guarantee that we won't take it the way you said we would, obviously the Btk. Clarification of your status, rethinking the definition of crimes that threaten the purity of public life, the einstand, as you have put in your pocket property like a private pension fund, so you must reach for Lőrinc Mészáros. As has been done in the form of a 98 percent special tax in the case of severance payments for civil servants, so must we. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and the introduction of property taxes must be reclaimed by the state, the property that you have destroyed and theft. This is what the LMP will do in 2018, if we get the chance, not the way you did. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-06-13-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr Pál Völner is responding. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Perhaps the Member has not read the new Fundamental Law or the old constitution carefully enough, where the separation of powers is expressed in a very strong way by these laws. These were about the fact that the government has a Ministry of Interior, but the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office itself is also a branch of power appointed by Parliament and controlled by Parliament, and the courts form an independent branch of power. So in these cases, listed partly in recent events before 2010, we know that the Sukoro case also started in 2009, the authorities carried out the proceedings, and the independent Hungarian court decided in most cases as it had decided or was still pending. How much is this a government responsibility? This government has submitted laws to this Parliament that, for example, only transparent companies can operate in public procurement, which, for example, was not typical in the previous period. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy intervenes.]] Or, in fact, we have set up that kind of control system, and in numerous speeches by Minister Lazarus, he was able to confirm that he found only a small number of cases, just like OLAF. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: How many percent?]] , or any EU audit of irregularities. In his number, that's what I said, not as a percentage, because this story is not to be expressed as a percentage. I understand that I am responding to Mr Sallai's speech, so if I may, Mr President, I would not respond to these interventions. So you can see that there is a constitutional arrangement in Hungary that is to assess these matters. It is possible that the strict rules of the legal environment itself, the criminal proceedings, make it impossible for evidence to be proved to be held accountable. It's possible, as in the Sukoro case, that this is going to happen, and it's also possible that what you don't want to believe is that there are cases where you're shadowed and there are no crimes. The fact that you guys are constantly shouting theft to get it back and how the field applications have turned out - the congressman has also won a land lease in the field contest. [[Sallai R. Benedict: I didn't win!]] Then your interests, we can put it in a more subtle way, but basically, the tender documents themselves prove otherwise. So we have to say that this is an open system. Technically, it may hurt you that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can feel much better today. [[Dr. István Apáti: I wish.]] there is an environment where foreign multinational companies are not in place, but the Hungarian economy is finally developing, and the income generated here remains here. Nevertheless, we always tell you, if you see any irregularities or suspicions of any crime, don't send messages from the press. We've got the authorities, we can make the charges, either by name or by name, who they can stand up to, so it doesn't just happen like this. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP. Dr. Ákos Hadházy: We will!]] not in the press, but then undertake to bear the consequences of the false accusation, where appropriate. [[Dr. István Apáti: They go to prison, it's funny!]] Not by throwing up as much trash as they want on public figures, because they're obligated to put up with it. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] Technically, if you would take these rules into account, you could see that what the Member has raised - I have tried to take note of these 13 issues you have raised - you have practically made complaints in these cases, which have already been dealt with most of the authorities, and it has been proven that you have been a basic student of the determining authorities, or that the government has actually been accused of abuse or criminal activity. [[10.10]] This may hurt you, but the legislative environment cannot be overwritten, warranty rules cannot be changed from today to tomorrow, and I would also refer to the fact that, in relation to the events of the past, there is no retroactive legislation in criminal law. So it can't be established afterwards that this or that was a crime. These are ancient principles of law, which must be respected, my lawyers can confirm. And the fact that today's Hungarian legal environment would not protect Hungarian public money from abuses is not true. In Hungary, there is one of the strictest criminal codes in the EU, and in various international fora it was precisely this government that had to protect the restrictions after 2010. Let's just think of all the restrictions on public security in Hungary, starting with the three-strike act, but the same is true for the protection of public wealth. So I urge the Member to read the legislation and, if he has a better idea, has a proposal for amendment, to present it, but this environment and the current constitutional arrangement ensure that, if there were ever such a thing, you would be completely unsuccessful in doing so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-13-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Discussions are now taking place on Commission reports and summary amendments. In line with the Commission reports published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965 on the publication of an amendment to the Single Drug Convention in New York dated 30 March 1961 and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/15368. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, During the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 8 June 2017, the members discussed the amendment to the Single Drug Convention in New York, published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965, dated 30 March 1961, T/15368. Bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted an amendment and a summary report by 31 votes in favour, unanimously. The draft amending proposal contains a proposal for an amendment to the Committee on Foreign Affairs closing a detailed debate, which sets out amendments of a linguistic and technical nature and with which the Committee has fully agreed. To sum up the content of the proposal, I can say that a new active substance will be placed in Annex I and IV to the Single Drug Convention. the list of active substances, which means that acetylfentanyl is included in a circle containing the most closely controlled active substances. In view of this, the Parliament must decide whether to transpose the new element of the treaty into the legal order. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, this active substance is not yet included in the lists of legislation allowing more stringent monitoring. The Fidesz fraction specifically supports the most careful control, as these compounds have killed hundreds of people worldwide. Since their re-use has begun, I would like your support for the amendment of the law, and thank you very much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-13-36	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now. [[Dr. Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs: No.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Foreign Affairs Committee has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, and a two-minute comment is not possible. I'll see if anyone wants to tell me. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate, which was not, is closed. [[Defiance.]] I can ask the author if he's changed his mind, but it's a medical logic that he doesn't do that, and we appreciate that. So, my dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on this day. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the energy legislation and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/15338. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 8 June 2017 shall be subject to the provisions of house rules 46. T/15338 on the amendment of energy laws. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 23 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment only includes the legislative committee's own initiative. The text states that the procedures under the international treaties on this subject between the countries concerned have a decisive influence on the opening of the exploitation of hydrocarbon incidents along the common border. These procedures include elements whose duration is significant and involve a time limit which cannot be determined by the mining contractor, as it also requires the act of intergovernmental bodies. The proposed amendment to the law aims to set a ten-year period for the start-up of production of hydrocarbons along the common state border in the light of the applicable international procedure. The proposal also facilitates that the mining contractor should not suffer a legal disadvantage in the case of mine farms with cross-border involvement for reasons other than interest and responsibility for extraction. I ask for the support of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-13-38	Thank you very much. I will ask the Secretary of State of Aradski if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Members' speeches will follow if they undertake to do so. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed; the rapporteur, as appropriate, I think, does not wish to speak. [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] Mr. Secretary of State confirms that. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place today. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws relating to the transport of dangerous goods will be discussed. The government referral is T/15642. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Would it be possible for the Secretary of State of Aradski to speak as rapporteur? [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to speak to its representatives. I'll see if anyone wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I would like to inform you that the designated Foreign Affairs Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I have given you more time to apply, but since no one has made contact, the debate is closed. It is my duty to ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. András Aradski: No.]] No. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place today. It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. The Commission's reports submitted for the amendment of Law No 1 and the debate on the draft amendment. [[10.20]] T/1577 submitted by the Economic Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 9 June 2017 shall be subject to the provisions of house rules 46. Under §2 of the Act on Corporate Tax and Income Tax, LXXXI of 1996 discussed the application of the Act on Income Tax and Income Tax. Law No 15777 amending Law No 15777 and the Committee submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour and 4 negative votes against. The summarised amendment only includes the legislative committee's own eight-point initiative, according to which a foundation with a permanent public interest objective defined in its articles of association, in particular the provision of conditions for the promotion of sport activities related to competitors of replacement age, the organisation of preparatory and competitive tasks, is considered to be a foundation. The amendment ensures consistency between the definitions of the two laws, as it states that only foundations carrying out activities under the Sports Act are entitled to benefit from visual team sport support. The amendment also states that the aid certificate is subject to the condition that the investment in tangible assets, the renovation of the assets covered by the aid be carried out on the property owned or managed by the owner, or that it must be submitted in advance to the body entitled to receive the aid or to the body entitled to issue the aid certificate, by concluding an agreement on the real estate recovery with the effect that, in the case of ownership by the State and local government, an agreement on asset recovery may be concluded without competitive tendering. The bill submitted expands the range of visual team sports with volleyball, which we hope will serve the further development of sport. I ask with respect for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-06-13-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will now ask the rapporteur, on behalf of the Economic Committee, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I do not wish to repeat what my colleague Sándor Hadházy said. In the closing debate, I would just like to refer to what contains the main direction of the bill, T/1577. As rapporteur for the Legislative Committee, my fellow Member said the amendments that the Committee discussed and which were also supported by the Economic Committee as rapporteur. The most important element of the bill before us is that it expands the scope of support for visual team sports, making volleyball a part of visual team sports. As indicated in the general statement of reasons, Volleyball was also included at the time of the introduction in 2011, when Tao was introduced in 2011. In volleyball sports, there has been an improvement in effectiveness and at club level that justified the inclusion of this visual team sport in the scope of Taolaw. I think I would like to add that during the general debate, the revenue of this visual sport was also supported by all opposition groups in the Tao area. The proposal also includes a number of amendments that make regulation simpler, clearer and more efficient. I don't want to get involved in these reruns. I think that in the general debate of the bill, and then in the detailed debate, it can be concluded, on the basis of the arguments made before the Legislative Committee and before that at the plenary session, that the bill meets the legislative requirements. It contains positive and forward-looking provisions on support for visual team sports, which is why I ask my fellow Members to support the motion in today's vote. Thank you for listening.
u2017-06-13-42	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that you have seven minutes and 40 seconds left in case you wish to inform me in the closet. Now, on behalf of the government, the Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó. Would you like to take this opportunity? [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-06-13-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, From 2010 the Government of Hungary has treated sport as a nation strategy sector. To this end, state sports management has set itself a number of goals, namely, in addition to the training of replacements, the development of sport and the promotion of recreational sports, all children should have sports, sports facilities and as many international sporting events as possible. In line with all these objectives, a system of support for priority sports has been established, the basis for catching-up sports has been established, and as of 1 July 2011 a law facilitating the corporate tax relief scheme for visual team sports has also been in place. Organisations in visual team sports may apply for support under the Tao Act for replacement training tasks, training and organisations, personnel costs, competitive tendering, asset investments and facility development and renovations. Thanks to the subsidies used, the situation in Hungary has improved significantly and the number of athletes who regularly exercise and certified competitors has also increased greatly. As we know, the promotion of sport, health and mobility through it is also a useful and profitable social investment. Tao and other sports development programs contribute to the preservation of the health of the Hungarian population, the support of young athletes and their involvement in sport as early as possible. And a healthy child is the key to the nation's future. In view of all this, we considered it important to continue the Tao system. In the course of the general debate, following a comprehensive examination by the European Commission, it decided and authorised the extension of the Tao sport support scheme for another six years in March this year. The use of resources belonging to the visual team sports support system is followed by a multi-stage technical and financial examination and audit carried out under a very strict protocol. A system of three stages has been established within the administrative organisational framework, according to which the programme for the development of sport is approved in advance by the approval body. Following this, progress reports will be kept under constant monitoring and, after the closure of the sports development programmes after the grant period, the final or winding-up clearance certified by an independent auditor will be submitted and examined in the case of grants above HUF 20 million. The audit body shall be responsible for monitoring the legitimate use of the amounts of aid, monitoring the implementation of the sport development programmes, and subsequently and through the promotion of the development of sport. The legislation also describes in detail the conditions under which the aid should be used by the aided organisation. With regard to the Tao Law's amendments, I think it is important to note, as we have mentioned in the past, that one of the main elements of this new sport is the expansion of support, the range of visual team sports, namely volleyball, whose social support and visual team sports are, I think, beyond discussion. [[10.30]] The Law 1. A new paragraph 3 is added, which contains technical clarification. The amendment, as we have heard from the Member, ensures reciprocity between the definitions of the two laws, as it states that only foundations engaged in sport activities are entitled to the promotion of visual team sports, which is linked to the provisions of Article 6 of the Act. § new paragraph (2). Tao Law 22/C. A new paragraph is added, which is of a guarantee nature. The amendment therefore ensures that, where the beneficiary of the aid and the claimant does not invest or develop on own property, it can only be carried out on the basis of a prior agreement with the owner or trustee, which guarantees that, thanks to a prior agreement between the sports organisation entitled to the aid and the owner of the property or the owner of the property, the conditions for the real estate use will no longer be subject to any disputes in this respect after the implementation and putting into service. Under the property law, the amendment ensures that, in the case of state or municipal property development, the eligible sports organisation or association may be the owner of the property recovery agreement, since the development resource is realised on the property owned by the State or the municipality on the basis of the sport development programme it has prepared. Dear Parliament, In addition, as has already been said, the primary objective of the law amendment is to ensure that the volleyball sport, which shows significant progress and results, can be included in visual team sports. The other provisions covered by the legislative amendment proposal include technical specifications, supplementary guarantees and text-focusing provisions. Accordingly, on behalf of the Hungarian Government, I call on honourable Members to support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-06-13-44	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, I will inform you. There will now be speeches by Members on a time-frame. Time frame distribution: Fidesz 17 minutes, KDNP 8 minutes, MSZP 9 minutes, Jobbik 9 minutes, LMP 5 minutes, independent 2 minutes. First, Mr Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, applied for a statement. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-45	Thank you for the word and the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have applied for a speech if we hadn't listened to Madam Secretary of State's victory report on the law on sport and the Tao. Which is why we need to tell you a few things. Overall, what we see is that there are times when it is a very great idea, there are times when what we see is a very great government idea, but then we always see in the implementation that something is going wrong. In itself, the Tao system might be a good system, as it would also serve to strengthen sports, visual sports, team sports and reinforcements, but we have seen in recent years in connection with the Tao that, interestingly, there has always been a money laundry in this area, somewhere the teams supported by the local Fidesz potenta are growing. That was typically true of football, by the way. Among other things, the team of Mezőkövesd is mentioned here, which is the favourite team of the Secretary of State of Tállai. Interestingly, it is said that sports mail, which I am otherwise less qualified to do, I must be honest with you, that it is not justified that they prefer the teams that they prefer, but we are used to the fact that Hungarian reality is this way in Hungary today. What is one of our great pains about the Tao is precisely that we see that the Fidesz Mafia method works here, too, it is mostly about moving and redeploying money in a direction that we consider to be particularly harmful. Therefore, I would like to say once again: the Tao system alone may be good, but the implementation, the way Fidesz has done this again in recent years, has always and repeatedly been said, we believe that it has knocked out the guarantee, and that is why I wanted to confirm this with my comment. Plus, we could totally agree to, say, raise volleyball. In addition, I am personally or regionally involved, because in my county, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, there is a strong volleyball sport in Nyíregyháza. But with this, let's say, I think it would be much better if we focused money on handball or waterball, where we actually achieved results, because I am the biggest football fan, but unfortunately, this friday night's outrageous result shows that something is wrong with Hungarian football. We know that the Prime Minister's favourite sport is football, which is why we would probably understand it even though we don't understand it, but we can only see, unfortunately, how to build a stadium at Felcsútra, where the reception capacity of the stadium is virtually higher than the population of the settlement, but, as I said, this is how the Tao system needs to be played, let's say, the teams that are the favourites of one of the Fidesz potentates. Therefore, we say and claim that the Tao system alone is not good the way Fidesz does it and the way the government does it. We would agree, for example, to raise volleyball. But overall, once again, in the implementation, we always find that there is a mistake, and this error is usually made in the form of a down payment. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2017-06-13-46	Thank you. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Pigeon, whether he wishes to reflect or to speak. [[It indicates his intention to comment. Dr. Zsolt Legény: Of course, let's create a little debate.]] Here you go.
u2017-06-13-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that the presentation of the,, victory report is, in this sense, pejoratively unacceptable in this context, and I think that was not the intention of the Secretary of State. What my fellow Member Zsolt Legény said here is the same in our opinion that there are sports such as handball, and I can give you positive examples in this respect, because it is one of the academys in my constituency that can carry out replacement training from this Tao support that is exemplary. Obviously, I'm not gonna name a company name or an association. Everyone can read it. It is exemplary and forward-looking what they do with the professional work that my fellow Member has already mentioned the handball. But volleyball is also developing in our area. I think that we must look at the positive elements of the system itself, which was introduced in 2011, together with the extension of the Union. On the part of companies that are in a significant number in Fejér County and in my constituency that, in the framework of this social responsibility, and now I am seriously indicating this, we have also been able to address companies from remote regions that did not know the nature of this method, and when they saw what these funds were spent on, for example, in the field of handball, they gave with good heart and continue to give these funds, which, once again, represent a very important base for re-education. We are pleased that the introduction of volleyball into visual sports itself was based on a common view of the bill. I think that what the Secretary of State said is certainly correct in the light that indicated the positive and sustainable nature of the whole system. Thank you for your participation in the debate, and please support it with your vote.
u2017-06-13-48	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place today. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with a decision, which will take place from 12 noon. So I'm gonna take a break until 12:00, and then we're gonna vote. Thank you very much for your work. Goodbye. [[Break: 10.39-12.03]] (President: Dr. János Latorcai) Note: Dr. István Tiba and István Szávay)
u2017-06-13-49	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. I'll ask you to take your seats and make sure your cards are properly placed in the voting machine. Decisions will be taken. The information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2016 and the report on the institution's operation for the National Assembly will follow. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/15541 will accept it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 130 votes in favour, 61 votes against and one vote in favour. Following up is T/14967 on transparency of organisations supported from abroad. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14967/23. and a summary report by T/14967/24. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of amendments No 16, 18 and 8 and the Group of the LMP. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is the motion of István Szávay and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes to 168, with one vote in favour. Amendment 2 is proposed by Bernadett Szél and Ákos Hadházy. The adoption of this includes Amendment No 16 but excludes Amendment No 18. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 129 votes against and 1 abstentions. Amendment 16 is proposed by István Szávay and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 163 votes against and one vote in favour. Amendment No 18 is also proposed by István Szávay and Márton Gyöngyösi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 169 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/1496/23 of the Fidesz Group. A separate vote was initiated on point 2 of the summary amendment proposal. We will decide on this first and then we will decide on further points in the summarised amendment proposal. In point 2 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up a legislative proposal. The Commission proposes to add a new point (d) of paragraph 4 of this Article. At the request of Fidesz, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 2 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] A new point (d) is proposed. At the request of Fidesz, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 2 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 154 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1496/23. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 130 votes in favour, 35 votes against and 29 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1496/28. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 130 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 24 abstentions. [[Szabó Timea is trying to give Viktor Orbán a leporello, which is several metres long, which Viktor Orbán will not take over, and then the congresswoman will spread it out in the middle of the Chamber. Noise, interruptions. Szabó Timea: This is not Soros, this is rural large family organizations...]] [[12.10]] It follows a series of prosecutions... [[Szabó Timea:]] Madam Congresswoman, I do not know if you know that we are in the process of voting, and accordingly you are not only using an unannounced illustration, but also disrupting the order of voting. I will inform the Speaker accordingly. I'm asking you to stop this activity. [[Szabó Timea: You are welcome to continue voting!]] It follows the T/13972 on criminal proceedings. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13972/36. and T/13972/37. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of Section 4 of the LMP Group, the Group of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 13, 14 and 16, 22, 23 and 25, and the MSZP Group proposed that amendments Nos 5, 6 and 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 13 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Amendment 14 is also proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 128 against and without abstentions. Amendment 16 is also proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstention. Amendment 22 was tabled by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 130 against and 33 abstentions. Amendment 23 is also proposed by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. Amendment 25 is also proposed by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 167 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 7. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Amendment 6 is also proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 130 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is required for the adoption of points 29 to 40, 58 and 169 and Sections 54 to 56 and 82 of 172, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/13972/36. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 154 votes in favour, 11 against and 33 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/13972/36. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 153 votes in favour, 8 against and 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to 13972/39. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13972/39. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 154 votes in favour, 10 against and 34 abstentions. We are now deciding on the part of the single proposal that requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13972/39. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 154 votes in favour, 7 against and 33 abstentions. [[12.20]] Dear Parliament, It follows now that the rules for the collection of classified information are amended by the new law on criminal proceedings and by T/15054 on the order in which civil rights claims are settled for the victim in the course of judicial execution. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15054/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2 and 4, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15054/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 159 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15054/5. The point requiring a simple majority of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the simple majority of the summary amendment by 159 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. Please note that T/15054/7. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15054/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 154 votes in favour, 39 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15054/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 154 votes in favour, 34 against and 5 abstentions. Next up is H/15345 on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. The adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/15345 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 133 votes to 61, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/15784 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to a prominent national memorial site will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15784/9. T/15784/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments 3 and 4 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 126 against, 39 abstentions. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. A qualified majority is required to maintain it. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 130 against and 42 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1578/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 40 against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/15784/12. The adoption of the provisions of the single proposal, which require a qualified majority, requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15784/12. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not adopt the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 130 votes in favour, 67 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15784/12. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 153 votes in favour, 40 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Here comes the T/1505 on the free possession of certain state-owned properties in the church. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the bill submitted sets out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15058 will accept it. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 159 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the submitted bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15058 will accept it. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the submitted bill requiring a simple majority by 154 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. [[12.30]] Next up is the T/15371 on lawyering. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1537/16 and T/1537/17. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 5, and Jobbik's group of amendments No 11, 6 and 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 129 votes in favour and 31 votes in favour. Amendment 11 was proposed by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. Amendment 6 was tabled by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 33 votes in favour. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 129 votes in favour and 33 votes in favour. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1537/16. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes, 3 negative votes and 61 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1537/19. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 130 votes in favour, 3 votes in favour and 61 abstentions. The 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities now follows. Law and the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. T12366. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/12366/7, and T/12366/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/12366/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes, 28 votes and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/12366/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 135 votes in favour, 28 votes in favour and 30 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 LXVIII on the service of judicial staff. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. T/15785. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15785/14. and T/15785/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2, 3 and 9. That's what we decide first. Amendment No 2 was tabled by Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 129 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. Amendment 9 is also proposed by Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15785/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summation amendment by 151 yes, 40 no votes, without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15785/17. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal 153 yeses, 40 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1997 XXXI on Children's Protection and Child Welfare Administration. Act T/15378 on strengthening the system of child protection and amending other laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15378/11 and T/15378/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 2, 4 and 5 be maintained. [[12.40]] The Jobbik Group proposed that amendments 2, 4 and 5 be maintained. (12.40) We'll vote on these first. Amendment No 2 was proposed by Mr Sebestyén. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 126 against and 37 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Tamás Sneider and Sebestyén Vágó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 125 against and nine abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr Sebestyén. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 128 against and 38 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15378/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 133 votes to 34 with 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15378/14. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 133 votes to 34, with 25 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is T/15429 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2018. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15429/25. T/15429/26. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the House that the house rules are set at 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of paragraph 4 of paragraph 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 5 and 6, MSZP Group Nos 13, 7 and 9 and LMP Group Nos 17, 18 and 19. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. The adoption of this proposal includes Amendment 19. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstention. Amendment 19 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 127 against and without abstention. Amendment 18 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 6. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstention. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 127 against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 13 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 129 against and 24 abstentions. Amendment 7 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 128 against and without abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by Gergely Bárándy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 128 against and without abstentions. Amendment 17 was proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 129 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15429/25. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, 60 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15429/30. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, 64 against and without abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have T/15428 on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15428/21 and T/15428/22. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 10, 12 and 14. We'll vote on these first. Amendment 10 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 7 votes in favour, 134 against and 52 abstentions. Amendment 12 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 128 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 14 is proposed by Erzsébet Schmuck and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 129 against and 1 abstention. [[12.50]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15428/21. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 152 votes in favour, 35 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15428/24. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 152 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstentions. It follows now that T/155558 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the establishment of pensioners' cooperatives in the public interest. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15558/9 and T/15558/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Anita Heringes. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15558/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 59 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15558/12. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, 61 against and without abstention. The next step is the publication of the T/15368 in New York, published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965, on 30 March 1961. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15368/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The rapporteur is T/15368/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available to all of them on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/15368/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 189 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15368/9. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 191 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/15338 on the amendment of energy laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15338/7. T/15338/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Lajos Kepli. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 66 votes in favour, 118 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15338/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 56 against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15338/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 124 votes to 41, with 24 abstentions. We now have T/15642 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the transport of dangerous goods. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15642 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 154 votes in favour, 30 against and six abstentions. It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. T/1577. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15777/5 and T/15777/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 124 against and 32 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1577/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 151 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. [[13.00]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1577/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 150 votes in favour, 34 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] The Commission's reports on the amendment of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications and the final amendment proposal follow up. T/155557 submitted by our Fidesz colleagues György Balla and László Kucsák. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all of us on the parliamentary IT network. [[Move.]] The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. Before I give the floor to Mr László Kucsák, I would like to ask my fellow Members who are now trying to leave the Chamber to do so as soon as possible, or to sit down in their seats, so that we can secure the debate without delay. Congressman László Kucsák has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 June 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/155557 amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution - hereinafter referred to as HSZ - 46. He supported him by 20 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendments tabled by the Economic Committee in the background, which were further clarified by the Legislative Committee. The relevant paragraph of the Electronic Communications Act is complemented by the summarised amendment proposal that the duration of the fixed-term contract may be up to two years if the contract is also linked to the purchase of a reduced device, such as television, mobile phone, computer and so on. In this case, the subscription fee shall be the same as the one-year contract fee. Let me also point out the provision that, in the case of devices purchased under a loyalty contract, the service provider is obliged to untie the device free of charge after the fixed-term contract expires. I stress that, with a view to resolving the problems of interpretation of the law, the condition that the contractual terms after the termination of the loyalty contract should not be less favourable than the contract terms of the subscriber for a limited period of time. Furthermore, the proposal clarifies that after a fixed period of loyalty, the contract is automatically converted into indefinite, but the parties have the opportunity to terminate it. At the same time, it requires the service provider to inform the consumer three times, 90 days before the expiry of the fixed-term contract, of the changes resulting from the termination of the contract and of the contractual offers made by the service provider with conditions similar to those in force. Ladies and gentlemen, In this bill, we have laid down provisions to strengthen consumer rights, and I can say that we are expanding the interests of users even more than before. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let us stand by the interests of citizens, who count on the help of the legislators in this case as well. Thank you for listening. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-06-13-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I will ask you if you wish to speak on behalf of the Government, because there is now, or at any time during the debate, an opportunity. [[Ákos Kara: In the end.]] In the end, there is no possibility, Mr State Secretary, if I close the debate, then only the rapporteur can speak. Then I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-52	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We've been discussing another amendment to the Communications Act. This amendment is now about consumers, people using the Internet, telephone and cable, protecting their interests, strengthening their position. On the basis of the proposal, the Loyalty Time is reduced to one year, thus ending the period when a service provider has tied vulnerable customers to it only for years. Loyalty can only be two years if, for example, you buy smartphones or smart TVs or tablets for installments to your subscription. If, on the other hand, all details are paid and the loyalty period is over, the service provider will be obliged to untie the phone free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen, So far, the service providers have punished the faithful consumer rather than rewarded his loyalty at a higher price after the end of the loyalty period. The bill that has now been adopted forbids this in the future, so the situation of the subscriber will not be worse after the loyalty period. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] The new rules that we have just said will have to apply from November this year, i.e. who will pay for mobile phones, internet or cable TV in November will use the service on the basis of new rules to protect consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the government, I ask you to support this bill in the vote. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-06-13-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I'll see if anyone wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Since there was no debate, I will ask if, as a closing point, Mr Kucsák wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, please. Congressman László Kucsák has the floor. [[13.10]]
u2017-06-13-54	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to thank our fellow Members very briefly for their attitude in the general debate at the committee meeting. We have endeavoured to incorporate the opinions and suggestions that have been expressed in the proposals. These were also reflected in the amendments. So in view of the consent given to this silence, we hope that in the final vote too, there will be great support for this proposal, which is indeed in the interests of the people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-13-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 2015 CCXI on chimney sweeping activities. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/155778 submitted by our fellow Members Lajos Kósa, István Németh Szilárd and György Balla Fideszes. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 8 June 2017 shall be subject to the provisions of house rules 46. CCXI of 2015 on chimney sweeping operations. T/1577. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 35 votes in favour, with one abstention, without voting against. The summarised amendment merely contains the two-point text of the Economic Committee closing a detailed debate. The intention of the Committee to amend is that the tenants who have fulfilled the statutory obligation and can prove this with an invoice and a record, then this is for them by the National Asset Management Ltd. shall be reimbursed if the required document is presented by 30 September 2017. In this way, it is possible to avoid unfair situations for tenants who have acted in compliance with the law. According to the submitted bill, the National Asset Manager would also include tenants in the property management of the apartments subject to the provisions governing private dwellings, so that the chimney sweeping work would also be free of charge for the properties used by the tenants. I call for the support of this House. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-13-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask the author whether he wishes to speak now, or if he will give his opinion in the closet. [[György Balla says no.]] He doesn't want to speak now. Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás State Secretary if he wishes to speak. [[Tibor Scones: No.]] Then the speeches will now take place. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[György Szilágyi reporting.]] Member György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group is asking for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-58	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support the law and support the amendments, because it is indeed a situation, especially in the case of foreign exchange victims, where people with a difficult fate were forced to leave their homes, and they continue to live in it, but are no longer in their possession. Therefore, a situation has emerged where they have to pay for the chimney sweeping service. We think that's unfair, because they live as private people in these real estates, and they're only registered under a legal procedure in the name of a company. We believe that this is to be supported. Regardless of how we handled this part, I would like to point out once again that, as I did in the general debate, this law is not good. This law should be re-examined, and this law should be re-submitted in a form that is good for Hungary as a whole, good for the Hungarian population. I mean, it's not just any law; it's life and property security issues. A lot of people have died in the heating season over the past period, even after the introduction of this law, I also think, because they relaxed during the inspections. Now we don't have to check the chimney every year, but it's only available every two years, but this may lead to even more deaths, since carbon monoxide is not selective. It doesn't matter what kind of a citizen he is, he's just as dangerous to everyone. So I would ask you to reconsider whether we should touch this law in the next session and make a law to ensure that people in Hungary are as safe as possible for the heating season. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-13-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-60	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Orbán Cabinet has once again proven to be the best Hungarian student of the Kádár government. With a cramped effort, he seeks to bring back from socialism everything that didn't work in him. Following the re-invention of state price regulation, they are now working on full nationalisation, destroying a multitude of small and medium-sized enterprises, at least making their work very difficult, which had previously been able to function without problems under market conditions and with increasing performance. First, they showed me what the game was about in the power supply. The introduction of administrative price regulation was only a means of crowding out foreign companies in the industry. Today we are at the next step, when the actors of the innermost economic lunar station of Fidesz appear in the clean area from István Tiborcz to Lőrinc Mészáros. We can see the same in waste management, where we are now only dealing with a series of bankruptcies of small companies, mostly municipalised by state resources, and the collapse of wasted public services and selective collection. But there are already large entrepreneurs from the Prime Minister's environment lining up to take over the prepared market. Last time, the chimney sweeping service took place, from which the sector's professional companies were squeezed out with the slogan of the reduction of the rent and nationalisation. It is worth taking a closer look at what cheapness, public property at fidesz reading looks like. Nationalised services are free of charge for home owners, but when a person operates a micro enterprise in his home, apartment or even uses a delivery label, he must pay for checking chimneys, which is a multiple of the original fee. In other words, Fidesz has once again destroyed a previously well-functioning sector, and now, with the password of freeness, it collects the same amount of money from people as it did before, but instead of providing retail services, it pays the full exemption from charges to small and micro-enterprises. We see the worst socialist practice being revived, the corrupt and wasteful state moving in everywhere, making it impossible to operate on the market, and instead of being free, we can only expect a lower level of service and price transfer. We have tabled a proposal to amend the bill on the industrial activities of chimney sweeps, because it is also incomprehensible to us why, in the case of real estate operating as a seat, establishment or branch of small businesses, the service is to be paid once the service is free for the public. This was discussed by Parliament's Economic Committee, where the author, Szilárd Németh, appeared. Szilárd Németh does not like to hear proposals coming from outside, so he had so much to add to the LMP amendment that communism ended in Hungary and therefore does not support the amendment as a rapporteur. LMP is no stranger to the Community ownership of public services. Community property, however, does not mean the resuscitation of opaque and uncontrollable state monopolies, but rather the resuscitation of ownership controlled by municipalities and local communities, which is transparent and also relevant in the competitive market. From all this, the Orbán government, with nostalgia in view of the state monopoly economy before the change of regime, seems to be a stranger, destroying new players in the economy. Of course, LMP does not mind the fact that chimney sweeping will be free in the apartment that is placed at the device manager's disposal, but we cannot agree that if someone has announced a translation office or any micro-company at their address, they will now have to pay multiples of the previous fee for the same service. And we certainly don't give our names to call it even free. There is no free soup, the Hungarian people now pay the price of another unfair campaign by Fidesz through companies. Thank you for your attention. [[István Szávay is replaced by István Ikotity in the notary seat.]] [[13.20]]
u2017-06-13-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman György Szilágyi asked for the floor to speak again from Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If my fellow Member has already mentioned the pricing and the fact that the chimney sweeping service is in operation at the moment, then I am obliged to say, too, because the Secretary of State is here, and perhaps he will also give me an answer as to how it can happen - and indeed it is the socialist times - that disaster protection workers who leave for free work with their car, equipment, work clothes and working hours paid for by disaster protection, when they go out to a house and there they find that, say, a company is registered in a given property, they will immediately be transferred to a private station. to his employees by arriving in the same outfit and using the same tools, and the bill is already a private-kft. It's made out in his name. We have also filed a complaint in this case. What surprised me was that since then I have received a letter from the police - we have sent all kinds of documents to the police, we have submitted the invoices, the bills clearly indicate that they did the line work at the same time and then they have already made kft. I was billed for him - and the police were wondering where I got the information. The police are asking me to tell them where I got the information. They don't want to explore the case and handle it with comfort, they want to know who the crappy person who provided such information, data and evidence to a Member of Parliament could be. That's why we're here, and that's why I'm afraid that if we don't change this law, there will be more tragic deaths when the heating season comes. This whole law, as it is, is wrong; it should be changed; it should sit down with professional organisations; it should listen to the opinions of professional organisations; it should not be on its own to grind up an advocacy union that they are doing right now. So they keep calling in the workers and telling them that it would be good if they joined the newly formed union, because then it will certainly represent their interests, which you will lead, and what you will force them to do. There are professional organisations, these professional organisations and trade unions could sit down, they are well aware of the profession, because they have been working in it for several years, decades, they know all the drawbacks of the profession, all the mischief, they should be heard, and then they might be able to bring together a law that would be suitable both for the profession and for the users of the service, and therefore also for the population. I suggest that you consider this proposal and apply this law so that, once again, by the beginning of the heating season, there is adequate security of life and wealth in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr György Balla, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Time frame's ten minutes, Deputy Group Leader.
u2017-06-13-64	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We heard from István Ikotity that Fidesz doesn't want other people's opinions. He said his own saying, and at that moment he sat in the notary's chair - sorry, I didn't notice, Congressman. [[Defiance.]] Of course, this does not exclude that a lot of people would be interested in the opinions of others, as we have often expressed our views on this matter, and it does not seem to have touched either Mr Szilágyi or Mr Ikotity. Even though we give you logical, clear and clear arguments, there is one thing that is important to you: in some way they are trying to smuggle you into the otherwise perfectly good bill, which they both support, some criticism, because it may not exist that the opposition is saying that it is good and that it is okay. That's how today's opposition works, so they're making an excuse out of all kinds of hair. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You were better, weren't you?]] I understand, by the way, that you both work as an advocacy organization for chimney sweepers. The owners of chimney sweeping companies - not chimney sweeps, but owners of these companies - who were otherwise entrusted with the task by the municipal system that you praised, and then regulated the price. That's what István Ikotity says, the market worked. If this is the market operation according to LMP, then I think it has finally come to light that the LMP is a communist party, because it is about a market in communism, and nowhere else it can be called a market. Let it be clear that the safety of the people has increased after the adoption of the law. One thing is quite certain, however, that the service for which they have had to pay a great deal so far is free of charge to all individuals with house ownership in Hungary today. I've never heard of real estate owners, the tenants, organizing a protest to restore the old system, because they'd like to pay a huge amount of money to get into their home, stick a little measuring machine in their boiler, and then charge me a lot of money. So before we praise that system, Mr Szilágyi, which you are talking about, and what you would like to bring back, let us rest assured that there were many flaws, that it was nothing more secure, but that people had to pay a huge amount of money for it. I understand that you don't know what to do with the reduction of the overhead, but there really is an advantage in reducing the overhead, there is an advantage for the people, there is no advantage for those who make a living, people don't have to pay for the chimney sweep, gas, electricity, they have to pay significantly less. Unlike you, we are still on the side of the people, which is why we will continue to maintain this system. Of course, I thank Jobbik for their support for this amendment, but I just think that this could have been done without all the words being made, otherwise they are trying to pull out an objection to the interests of the people, but they are simply saying that yes, it is a good proposal, and we therefore support it. We could have settled this debate with this much, and you didn't want to, so I'm forced to say that we are on the side of the people, and you want to re-introduce a paid chimney sweeping service in Hungary. We're not going to be partners. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-06-13-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 2016 XCI on National Farms and Farms of Menes. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Sándor Fazekas and Béla Dankó, our fellow Members from Fidesz, submitted T/15776. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-66	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I will not complete the timeframe available, but this does not mean that it is not an important piece of legislation. I would like to inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 8 June 2017 is the House Rule 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act on the National Farms of Menes and the Economy, the 2016 XCI discussed. T/1577. The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 21 votes in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the proposals of the Committee on Agriculture, which was approved without discussion by the Committee on Legislative Affairs. With the adoption of the proposal, it is possible that the National Farms and Farmhouses Zrt. products, crops and reproductions generated on immovable property managed by the company shall be owned by the company. [[13.30]] Another important objective is that movable property belonging to the property management of stud estates is to be owned, free of charge, by virtue of the law, by means of a contract for the transfer of ownership. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above, I ask for your support in order to enable the company to fulfil its statutory obligations and to ensure its long-term viability. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-13-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask our fellow Member, Sándor Farkas, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. [[Sándor Farkas: In the end.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. You'll get your chance in the closet. I now ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. László Tasó, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-06-13-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the government is in favour of the bill. The stud estates are a model economy with public public tasks. Due to the nature of its tasks, the acquisition of property products on property managed, as my fellow Member said, of crops and reproductions, and of property rights over assets currently managed, is essential, and it is therefore necessary to obtain permissions to do so. Through the amendment of the law, the land belonging to the estate management of the stud estates is controlled along with its crops, and, as has already been said, Mezőhegyesi Állami Ménes Lótárs Kft. The legal conditions for the management of livestock and movable property from its property will also be ensured. I therefore ask with respect that you support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-13-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the designated Agriculture Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. First, I am speaking to Mr Gábor Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to record at this point that the MSZP does not have a specific problem with this proposal, but with the way it handled the whole livestock estate. There is no doubt that something had to be done. The fact that the step was practically a renationalization and that they were trying to repair the operation and take the necessary steps in the context of public treatment would be an eligible goal in itself, but the way they did this was, to put it mildly, the typical, typical, ignominious Fidesz legislative and operational practice. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Be modest!]] No, my fellow Member, you should be more modest in this matter. Because no less has happened in this case, that they first gave the land to their friends, and then, when they found out that they should nationalise the economy, they simply gave an unbelievable amount of compensation to the friends who never took possession that they didn't have to cut a hoof, and yet you threw a billion and a half forints at them. After this downfall, I think it would be expected that any decision concerning any additional assets should be taken, so that some guarantees can be given that it will not come to the conclusion that, let us say, that good racehorses coming out of the breeding stock will be played over by someone, just to give an example; because this will also be possible by law and your practice, honourable fellow members of the Fidesz. And besides, what makes this whole case even more outrageous is that they don't follow their own rules of the game, because stud estates as a model economy are integration. When you wrote in the Fundamental Law that a two-thirds law on integration must be drawn up, you literally used the terms when you listed in the Government decision on the establishment of stud estates as a model economy why and how this was created. So, instead of practically a two-thirds law, a half law was introduced, and then a half law, to make it work, was simply a government decision and a ministerial decree determining who would then be subject to it, and how it would work. This, my fellow Members, is an unacceptable practice, and after this whole story has started very badly, I say, with a huge downswing, and then neither the legal basis nor the trust is there, to support the fact that we can vote on this proposal. Therefore, we are rooting for the recovery of the herd, but, fellow Members, we should not have taken the money from the beginning, we could do the necessary legislative steps that you have prescribed, and then everyone could be happy to support it. Unfortunately, we are not in a position to support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-06-13-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. MEP Zoltán Magyar asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! As I said in the Commission debate and in the general debate, my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre replaced me, he said that we would not have a problem with the concept itself, so if this proposal came to Parliament two or two and a half years ago, then Jobbik would certainly be able to support it, as we have always urged that there should be such demonstration centres throughout the country, much more than there is at present. It's important for genetic conservation. It could fill exceptional gaps in agricultural-higher education and middle education, as we could create a chain of practical demonstration sites that would really all be missing, not to mention that there are a lot of important, valuable and outstanding jobs on the ground and have been able to create stud estates so far. It's all positive and forward-looking. However, given the history, I must confirm that the Jobbik faction will only be able to abstain from this proposal, and there are two very simple reasons for this. On the one hand, we would like to be clear on the issue of compensation. I mean, when did they change their minds? In what circumstances and in what way did the Hungarian State come up with it overnight to privatise the vast majority of the state's land, but we are going to reverse it in some amazing way and in a way that is nowhere to be seen? How did you decide to compensate the new landowners who had not yet come into possession with what amounts, with such brutal sums? I understand that they were concerned that these new landowners might go to court, but it would have been easier to just, let's say, on the internal mailing list of Fidesz, to give the order that it is forbidden to go to court, because the local information clearly outlines what kind of figures, which are linked to Fidesz, and familiar with local politics, have acquired the fatter part of the land in this place as well. But aside from this political part, we would really like to have guarantees, on the one hand, by amending the law on national property, that under no circumstances should the livestock or livestock of the herd be privatised, and I do not see any obstacle to that, if your intentions are pure, and you intend to maintain the function of the herd in this direction, which has been launched in the future, then I do not know why it is a problem if the opposition asks for such guarantees. Your word, allow me to say that it doesn't mean anything to us in this regard, since it's not even close to the subject, but that's where the whole story came from. Even in the week before privatisation, it was said here, in the House walls, that the Hungarian Government intends that the state's land and its impact on the countryside should be strengthened and the land increased. A week later, with an unexpected turn of events, they argued for privatisation, and then they did it. Therefore, no one should be offended if we do not believe and take your word as a guarantee in this regard, so we look forward to the guarantees in this regard. Just like the names and the exact amounts, because I don't understand why it's classified, why it can't be said here to us Parliamentary Members in front of the country, how much of the taxpayers' money has been wasted on compensation where, once again, no new landowners have been paid, satisfied. [[13.40]] We want to know the numbers, the hectares, the amounts, the names, because it's public money, it's for all of us, and it would be nice to finally clarify whose responsibility it was to get this far. I wouldn't consider it a disoriented thought that a minister who puts taxpayers' money in such an amazing position and practically throws it out the window with his own money. So, in addition to the fact that privatisation was a shameful step, undoing it in this form was a huge irresponsible waste of taxpayers' money. In conclusion, I have to say how committed we are to projects such as this, and how sorry we are that the Fidesz government's fault does not allow us to create and build much more such display sites, and we have no better proof than that we simply did not go to the Constitutional Court. I have already said at the committee meeting that, according to the clear and consistent position of every lawyer on the subject, if the opposition had collected the appropriate number of signatures, this solution would have been canceled in the Constitutional Court as well as in the draft, but simply in agreement with the case, we did not do it and we did not put you in another uncomfortable position, because, once again, we have a problem, not with the studry and the new title, but with the story I told you and the way we got here. So we expect guarantees and we want to hear names, then the stay will become yes. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Sándor Farkas if he wishes to respond to what has been said on behalf of the authors. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. Your time frame is ten minutes.
u2017-06-13-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we are in the debate of a law on which we have already heard from the opposition the excuses which we have learned not only here in Parliament but also within the framework of the committee, but these arguments are not really about this law. This feels a little out of place, because we're not talking about what the law is about, the law provides. I do not like to look backwards, but it has to be said that the history of the Mezőhegyi Méneszgazdaság dates back to 2004, when the socialists privatized this economy and handed it over to a circle from which - I might say - national wealth, agricultural-cultural values, and the traditions that Mezőhegyes has had, any government would have had an obligation to buy it back, to take it back, because with that privatisation, a value that would have been irreplaceable in the Hungarian agricultural-cultural history, in the Hungarian agricultural society. This was privatised in 2004, honourable Member, and should therefore be addressed to the then government. But we've been over this. When we brought the Law on Mezőhegyes to Parliament in 2016, then, but also now, this law was very pleased and has the support not only of the region but also of Parliament, even if certain opposition parties are looking for various guarantees and excuses. With this law, we have achieved that the 8100 hectares of arable land and more than 1,500 hectares of forest land are still owned by the Hungarian state, and a model farm, a demonstration farm, will be the location of Mezőhegyes, for which - I say too, unfortunately - there are not many examples in Hungary. But I'm sure that, if not to this extent, it can be replaced to a lesser extent. How the Mezőhegyi Ménes estate recovers and after what history it will be able to manage effectively, and how it will be able to play its role in accordance with the law, can honestly be one of the important issues of the remaining period, because with this law we are still based on the possibility of implementing the original law on Mezőhegyes. Unfortunately, there was a question that this law also provided for, which could be raised as a very simple professional question, and this simple professional question was that a company had been transformed from a former kft., which meant the herd. The stud did not have to privatisers either in 2004, the remaining state-owned, which is why in 2015 it became a budgetary body for the operation of the FM, and with this law we now had to settle the loose ends that had arisen in the past period. The purpose of this is that not only animals, horses and their breeding, but also the crops and crops of the entity as a budgetary body, which was produced in 2016, could not so far be fed, sold or done without the authority of this law. I am very confident that this law will provide a very good solution for the ability to have these options from now on as an entity. The different voices with which the opposition is talking about stretching out, I really don't like it. If I were in a situation like this, it is unlikely that I would have taken on the role of government commissioner for this stud farm, and certainly not. But the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Party and the government are not in favor of the downfall. It's all in your vocabulary and thinking, that's what they always think. I'm sorry, but I'm saying they're starting out on their own, that maybe this is the way to do it. I clearly reject this and even take it as a personal insult to try to influence me with such thoughts and manifestations, not to influence, but to question my faith and enthusiasm. And the fact that the opposition is asking for guarantees in this circle is again not part of this law. That will indeed be possible, and I am sure that the Law on Mezőhegyes needs to be amended. I don't see those points at the moment, but we see the ideas in our plans. Here we would like to prepare a very important programme for further irrigation development as soon as possible, which not only goes beyond Mezőhegyes, but it would also be about the whole Hungarian irrigation development opportunities. And again, I would like to repeat what is meant by the taking over of the agricultural school in Mezőhegyes, the Kozma Ferenc School. I would like to inform you that as of 1 September, you are the maintainer of the National Farm and Farm of Menes, and we will start on a course where Mezőhegyes will be a practical place for basic training and later on for higher education. This, of course, is the end of many more years. Not least, the use of agricultural-cultural historical monuments, monuments and their involvement in rational farming is also a very important issue. I have already pointed out that there will probably still be an opportunity to amend the Field Point Act, and that we will be able to discuss this issue when, of course, they are on time and we believe so. I would like to conclude by saying that this law is my belief that it will help in the management of today's National Farms and Farms, creating clear, transparent conditions and raising the level of farming. I ask for the assistance and support of my fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-13-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. [[13.50]] The Commission's reports to be submitted to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, on the publication of a protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and the debate on the draft amending text. The government referral is T/15555. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, the representative of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform the Parliament that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 8 June 2017, the provisions of the House Rules 46. On the basis of Article 4 of the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, T/1555. The Committee adopted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 26 votes in favour. The summarised amendment contains only one-point text of the Committee on Foreign Affairs closing a detailed debate. This provides that, under the title of the bill, it must also include an indication of the entry into force of the contract in international law with regard to Hungary, which is 1 February 2017. In view of the absence of any other intention to amend, our committee supported the above amendment, without any other comments. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary actively supports Serbia's accession negotiations, since it is of the utmost importance for our country that Serbia has properly completed its 23rd meeting. The conditions for opening a chapter on justice and fundamental rights, including the development of a national minority action plan. Please support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention, thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-13-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask the government's author, Mr. Secretary of State, whether he wishes to speak now, or if he wishes to speak at the end of the debate. [[For signal:]] Now. Here you go, Secretary of State. I indicate that you have a total time frame of 10 minutes for both speeches together. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Vécsey has just presented the purpose of the bill. In view of Croatia's accession, the Protocol was signed in Brussels on 25 June 2014 and approved by the European Union and on behalf of the Member States by the Council of the European Union, so the internal legal procedure is only necessary for publication. Serbia confirmed on 10 November 2015 and the Council notified Serbia of its approval on 31 January 2017 and the Protocol entered into force in international law from 1 February 2017. The purpose of the Association Agreement with Serbia is to promote the European integration of the country, in which the European Union supports Serbia's efforts to consolidate the rule of law and democracy, contributing to the political, economic and institutional stabilisation of the Balkan region. It is important for Serbia to develop its infrastructure and economic relations with Central Europe and its integration with the European Union, essentially through Hungary. Dear House, Serbia is at the forefront of the Hungarian neighbourhood, national and security policy and foreign economic efforts. Thanks to the support of the Hungarian government and the openness of the Serbian party, it could develop and operate in Vojvodina, in the Carpathian Basin in a unique way, the Hungarian personal autonomy. Its operating institution is the Hungarian National Council, which, through its numerous programmes, such as education, culture, language use, information, ensures the survival and strengthening of the Hungarian national community in the homeland. The Serbian law on national councils also provides the opportunity to set up directly elected councils by minority members, which have powers in the cultural, educational and linguistic matters of the minority community. The Government of Hungary has been a supporter of the Hungarian National Council's priority programmes since 2011 and supports the community's prosperity in the amount of HUF 600 million each year. The meetings of the Hungarian-Serbian Joint Intergovernmental Minority Committee are important forums between Hungary and Serbia. Ladies and Gentlemen, Negotiations with Serbia started on 21 January 2014, and 8 chapters have been opened to date and 2 have been closed. Hungary actively supports Serbia's accession, as it is very important for us to support Hungarians in Vojvodina and to ensure that they live there. On the basis of the arguments already made, I would also like to ask with respect for the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-06-13-79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to inform you that you have seven minutes and four seconds left to say the closing word. I would like to inform this House that the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs has not presented a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which has already been published on the billboard. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Member Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-06-13-80	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the rarer moments that is now coming, because what my fellow Member has just said, we fully agree with it. We ourselves believe that all measures or assistance or support to the government in relation to Serbia, which really brings Serbia closer to being a full member of the European Union, I believe, is a national interest. According to the MSZP faction, it is also a national interest. The special pleasure is that there are points in foreign policy that have enjoyed continuity almost since the change of regime. This is how we are pro-enlargement, so the current Hungarian government, Hungarian foreign policy, was pro-enlargement. I think this is right, because if our environment operates as part of a European family in an orderly, democratic environment, then there are many problems, for example, the issue of minority rights that have just been rightly emphasised. We therefore support the Government's efforts in this regard, so we will also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Tasó, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. It is now up to Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure and Act XLVI of 2001 on consular protection. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/155559. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. That leaves you another 10 minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform this House that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Accordingly, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Lajos Korózs: In short!]]
u2017-06-13-82	Lajos Korózs has already warned me that briefly. Given that there has been no big debate on this proposal, not in the general debate, not in the Committee on Justice and today, I would therefore only like to draw the attention of honourable Members to a few important issues and to convince those who have doubted so far. One important part is that the administrative burden on the registration of children born abroad is significantly reduced, as these children can also be registered outside by consular services. [[14.00]] At the moment, this can only be done in Hungary, and after the entry into force of the law, in consular services, abroad. Another important question is that the registrar will have the opportunity to correct incorrect entries, and if it still fails to correct them, the client may have a judicial remedy. The names of the predators last gave rise to some turbulence in the general debate. We believe that by making a decision of the client himself, he does not have to do so, it depends on his own decision, how it will be entered in the register, while the government has also decided that the procedure itself has been free of charge since 2017. Public credibility and reliability remain as basic values in the register. I think that this law is worth supporting to honourable Members, and I also ask them to do so. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for the attention of my fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-06-13-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on T/15761 on the abolition of lex CEU. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Cultural Committee. First I give the floor to the representative of the authors in a five-minute time frame [[For signal:]] Mr. István Hiller, Vice President. Push the button, Mr. Vice President. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I salute you. You have the floor.
u2017-06-13-84	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I cannot address the government because it is not present, but I understand that it is not present, because the law submitted and adopted was scandalous even when it was submitted and accepted, but since then not only the Hungarian higher education XXI. The 21st century history, but the 21st century history of our country. One of the greatest international scandals in his 20th century history was passed and presented. As a matter of fact, to our proposal, to withdraw lex CEU, I would like to point out that this is against the interests of our country, and it is difficult for you to find a more serious argument. As an additional argument, I would like to say that the four key figures of the Hungarian legal society, András Jakab, Miklós Lévay, László Sólyom and Zoltán Szente, have turned to the Constitutional Court today with a written request, called amicus curiae, in which it is proposed that the Constitutional Court destroy this shameful law. We fully agree with their opinion. Three points are added, namely the violation of the fundamental law of university autonomy; the right to scientific research, teaching and learning; and the restriction of university autonomy against the fundamental law; and the violation of the rule of law. One by one, it would be enough to withdraw this law, and together it would be unquestionable. In addition to the names of the above mentioned four excellence of the above mentioned four excellence of the Hungarian legal society, we would also like to mention the following, who in substance agree with what is listed in amiccus curiae and which we have been talking about for months: Michael Spence, New York University, Nobel-winning; Alvin E. Roth, Stanford University, Nobel-winning; Angus Deaton, Princeton University, Nobel-winning; Bengt Holmström, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, New York University, Nobel-winning; Edward C. Prescott, Arvin E. Roth, Stanford University, Nobel-winning; Angus Deaton, Princeton University, Nobel-winning; Bengt Holmström, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Nobel-winning; Edward C. Prescott, Arizona State University, Nobel-winning; Lars Hansen, University of Chicago, Nobel-winning; Eric Maskin, Harvard University, Nobel University, Nobel-winning; George A. A. Akkerllof, Akerllof, George-Akerlof, George, Georgetown, Georgetown, Georgetown, Georgetowntowntown, Georgetown, Georgetown, Georgetown University and University and University and University and University and University and University and University and University and University and University and University of California and University of California, California and University of California, California, California and University of California, California, California and University of California and University of California, California, California and University of California and University of California, and University of California, California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, of California, and University of California, of California, of California, of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, and University of California, of California, and University of California, of California, and University of California, and University of California, of California, and University of California, and University of California, of California, of California, and University of California, of California, of California, [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In addition, as a university, the following universities are: Arizona State University, Boston University, Columbia University, Cornell University, European University Institute, Freie Universität Berlin, Georgetown University, Johns Hopkins University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Princeton University, Sciences Po, Stanford University, Technische Universität München, The City University of New York, University of California, Berkeley, University of Chicago, University of Michigan, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, University of Oxford, University of Pennsylvania, University of Toronto, Uppsala University, Yale University. Mr President, Dear Hungarian Parliament! In recent decades, there has been no case of Hungarian higher education that would have put so many Nobel Prize winners, so many world-famous universities, so many national and foreign authorities against a law. One of the names listed would be enough in itself, and together it is unquestionable. We respectfully ask the Hungarian Government and the majority parties to withdraw this outrageous law. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-85	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group.
u2017-06-13-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary opposed the Fidesz bill that was known as lex CEU and we did not vote for it. Why is that? Jobbik does not wish to interfere with the fact that if we are talking about George Soros or anyone else, we should take a stand here on this issue as to who is now representing the rule of law. We see one thing: György Soros did not represent the rule of law in Hungary. We have raised a lot of criticisms about György Soros in recent years, decades, György Soros has been criticized in Parliament, outside Parliament. Far from agreeing with the policy that he represents, we disagree with the extreme liberalism that he represents, which he brought in Hungary, but we stressed that we do not agree with the same method that Fidesz applied in contrast. This method, as it practically made this university impossible to operate in one day, in one day, in a legislative day, is the truth that even Mátyás Rákosi, I say, would have been very honorable if he had been able to do such a thing. Today, you govern not on the basis of democratic principles, but on the basis of dictatorial principles. You have allowed György Soros to work here undisturbedly for 20 years, and you have taken advantage of this, because most of your leaders have been funded by György Soros at one of his universities, György Soros, and the ideological foundations for the parliamentary operation have been obtained there, and then in one day they think that this is something to be dealt with. You were just trying to make an enemy image of Hungarian society, and that's why you've been downplayed in one day with this institution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-87	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, MSZP. [[For signal:]] LMP - forgive me, notary. LMP Group, once again. [[14.10]]
u2017-06-13-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The May Other supports the petition on the abolition of lex CEU. CEU is needed in its current form. The anti-CEU law must be revoked. The impossibility of CEU is not an education policy issue, but a general political issue. Putting CEU in an impossible position is detrimental to Hungarian higher education because of the extensive connections of CEU in Hungary, and the whole country suffers from this law. This must be withdrawn as soon as possible. That's our conviction. What the government is trying to accomplish by trying to corner this university like this, we don't know that. We have tips for this, but we think it's not a fair way, and it's totally unacceptable. What I would like to say, however, is that if there is a privileged, beneficiary university in Hungary today, to which CEU is considered, it is not the CEU, but the NKE, the National University of Public Service, the András University of Paty. We are talking about a university with billions of budgets. If Fidesz, KDNP, had intended to create a level playing field in Hungarian higher education, then the University of Paty is a university that is truly harmful and detrimental to other higher education participants, it would have taken back the advantage of this. What privileges does this National University of Public Service have? It's a stand-alone law. It has a monopoly position in some disciplines. The study years at NKE are not included in the course of a free state scholarship, up to a maximum of 12 semesters. He also receives high-level state aid for investments and operations, and there is no university chancellor appointed by the Prime Minister and placed on the rector's neck. All this proves that CEU is not the specialized university. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Please withdraw this law.
u2017-06-13-89	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2017-06-13-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat once again the arguments that we have already made. Let me just remind you that there is absolutely no threat to the functioning of the Central European University in Budapest, Hungary. This is not the same - the English name is certainly CEU, but it is not the same - as Central European University, registered in New York. But I do not wish to go into this debate, nor do I wish to see that it violates university autonomy, freedom of teaching, freedom of research. We consider it not to be a violation. The President of the Republic also considered it not to be a violation; if another legal forum considers it to be a violation, it will undoubtedly be a different situation. In particular, the proposal that Mr Hiller has put forward, in addition to what has been said so far, contains one other element, which is why we cannot support this, namely the fact that he wants to highlight from the law the element that was introduced earlier in the course of the amendment of the Higher Education Act by the Education Office every five years to review and see whether the operation of each institution complies with the law or not. This is something that you wish to delete, Congressman. Since this applies to all of the foreign higher education institutions operating in Hungary, not to all of them, but to all of them, and does not want to build anything in its place, it simply means that foreign higher education institutions operating in Hungary would be drawn out of the Hungarian legal order without further ado and, compared to Hungarian universities, a completely different situation, if you like, will be created outside the law. I think it's unacceptable in a rule of law, so we're not going to support it. Thank you.
u2017-06-13-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-13-92	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The political attack of the CEU is a purely conceptual process. That's what the darkest Nazis and old communists have done in this country, and now you. Charge your opponent with something he doesn't have, ask him for something he can't do, and make him a scapegoat, blame him for not being able to produce results. The attack by CEU is also about Fidesz being able to do the darkest betrayal, the closure of the future of Hungarian children, in order to prevent Fidesz crimes from coming to light. Fidesz became a party to university closure, Fidesz became a party to the fight against science and intellectuals, and Fidesz finally took the path of defeat. But I would like to draw the attention of all opposition and disgruntled people in this country: for power they are trembling only as long as we pity their victims. Hungary sees precisely that the power of Orbán and Fidesz feeds on the fears of people who are crushed daily by the Fidesz hate propaganda machine, takes it into its mouth, swallows and spits out so that it can start again the next day. Today, those who are sickened by the attack of the CEU, who today despises the cynicism of the government, today have the task of helping the Fidesz voters who have been living in war psychosis for years to see their own lives, to see that Viktor Orbán is not a savior of the country, he is not even a politician, but simply a principleless manipulator who wants to turn Hungary into a dark hole. The Hungarian people and the Hungarian people are much better and more than those who run this country today. Thank you.
u2017-06-13-93	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak on behalf of the factions. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Vice-President István Hiller, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-06-13-94	Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. Thank you for all those who have argued for the withdrawal of this outrageous law. Mr Pósán, who spoke on behalf of Fidesz, I highly recommend footnote 9 of Amicus Curiae, which has been submitted today, because the four excellences of the Hungarian legal society, which has been listed above, write this argument, which has been repeatedly said by Mr Fidesz, write:. For the sake of the completeness of the argument, we refer only to the incomprehensible argument in constitutional terms, which often arises in political communication, that the universities concerned, as the likely recipient of the amendment of the law, can also function as a university in Hungary after the new regulation. The unconstitutional restriction of a law is not justified by the fact that not all rights are revoked. University autonomy is only possible for functioning universities. This, please, is a clear position of academics, university professors. However, what is not a legal resolution, but also the opinion delivered today in Strasbourg, I would also like to quote: the Central European University of Budapest is extremely important for both European and Hungarian higher education, so I will do everything in my power to continue the negotiations. This was said by Tibor Navracsics, your former party partner, your former political groupmate, your group leader, now European Commissioner. Today, a few hours ago, in Strasbourg. You guys are completely different. Take it back! Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-95	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Thursday's meeting. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to implement the 2013 LIV on the implementation of reductions in oil and gas prices on the world market. T/13877 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. Who will be the author? [[For signal:]] Congressman Attila Mesterházy will be the author. I didn't have Congressman Mesterházy, so I was trying to make sure that he really wanted to tell me. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, Mr László Szakács may have been present there as rapporteur, but he had other urgent duties, so he asked me to justify our presentation. The development of gas prices in Hungary, the substantially decisive oil prices and the significant and lasting decline in gas prices in Western Europe over the past two years, allows for about 60-70% reduction, while the income and financial conditions of Hungarian households make it necessary for legislation to take regulatory measures to ensure that the positive effects of price reductions reach the population. [[14.20]] It would not be appropriate if the beneficial effects of the reduction in gas prices did not reach the Hungarian families. The debt of Hungarian households is still huge, both in the number of consumers with public utility fees and in the amount of public utility fees, nearly HUF 22 billion higher than in 2009. At the end of November 2016, electricity, gas or district heating services were provided due to a tax debt suspended in more than 100,000 households. Not to mention that due to the loss of new taxes, tax increases and fees, and the tax credit, two thirds of the Hungarian families manage less money than in 2010 even with the reduction of the overhead tax that has been introduced so far. Our proposal, in the same way as the solution proposed at the time of previous reductions, aims to allow for a reduction of the rent in line with social justice, because it is possible and possible to implement it. It's just a matter of government will and ability. Simply put, the objective of the proposal can be defined as follows: energy is much cheaper, up to 20 percent cheaper for families with average consumption or lower consumption. A significant decrease in prices up to average consumption represents greater savings for families where this is more necessary, so that greater help could be given in reducing cost of living where there is a greater need, since three quarters of the savings have occurred in the case of a uniform price decrease so far, at the highest level of consumerism and thus at the most profitable one quarter of the population. In addition, government measures, tax increases and austerity in recent years have typically been more burdensome for households with lower incomes. The objective of the measure is therefore to ensure that average families with lower consumption, living in less modest conditions, have cheaper access to the energy needed to sustain their lives, while the more affluent consumers do not receive a higher discount despite their greater capacity to bear a higher burden. It is proposed to encourage energy saving by not requiring a reduction in fees for higher consumption. It is therefore proposed that the impact of the price reduction of international oil and imported natural gas on retail gas, electricity and district heating prices should finally be reflected as of 1 April 2017. The last price of oil reached an average of around $40-50 in 2004-2005, when the price of natural gas was HUF 40-50 per cubic metre. From 1 April, we propose that the 20% reduction to be applied to the average consumption will ensure that the benefits of the global price reduction of natural gas are delivered to the general public. In view of the role of natural gas in electricity and district heating, it is also appropriate to introduce an official price reduction in the population. Therefore, on the basis of our proposal, retail electricity prices would decrease by 10 percent from 1 April 2017 and teleheat prices would decrease by 10 percent. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-06-13-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group.
u2017-06-13-98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have said several times here in the Parliament since the introduction of a policy marketing product called a reduction in rent, that if we had taken into account world market prices, a much higher price reduction than the 20, 10+10 percent reduction could have been achieved in Hungarian households. In fact, prices that were frozen at the time of the adoption of the law on reductions were already not at all current and, rather than rising, the price of energy sources on the world market decreased significantly. In English: not only is it not fair to reduce the rent because it applies equally to everyone, from the largest consumers to the poorest, to the smallest consumers, but it is also unjustified, as it is called a reduction in tariffs, but it was actually a price freeze, which meant that people could now obtain electricity or natural gas or other energy carriers at a much cheaper price, instead they have to buy it to this day. This is clear that it was politically a marketing product on the part of the Fidesz-KDNP government, and it is also clear that this measure was exceeded by age. At a time when the costs were frozen compared to those at that time, the law on the reduction of costs was adopted, Jobbik also voted for it because it was timely at the time. However, this should have been reviewed several times since then and further reduced prices in line with world market trends. We did not think that Fidesz would cement this for two cycles from now on, and it would sell energy for that when world market prices would be much lower. So we are in favour of any series of articles that are intended to remedy this, so we are also calling for this proposal to be included in the subject series, and, of course, we will also be reviewing it in 2018 and we will implement a more socially fairer reduction of the rent. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-99	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-13-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We need a fair reduction in the cost of gas, as the price of gas is much lower than the price that people in Hungary get for it. So the MSZP's proposal concerns a substantial gas price reduction for two reasons: because it is necessary, consumers below average pay disproportionately for gas, and there is also a possibility, because on the world market the gas is much cheaper than Fidesz is selling it for in Hungary today. Therefore, it is not possible to maintain the unfair situation that the state obtains gas at a cheaper price and sells gas at a uniform price in Hungary. So when Fidesz refers here to any kind of consultation called national, it defends the unfair condition that it artificially keeps the price higher than the world market price, in this case the Hungarian import price makes it necessary. So our proposal is to reduce the retail gas price by 20 per cent to the average consumption, in order to compensate for the injustice that they have committed before, by reducing the price of gas to the same extent for everyone. Thus, they did not encourage a reduction in consumption, because those who were large consumers saved even more by the previous price reduction. So let's get this straight. The MSZP has submitted a legislative amendment nine times to reduce the gas price in Hungary, because the world market price offers this opportunity, and the Fidesz majority has prevented this nine times. This is the tenth time: let's reduce the price of gas together. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-06-13-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, who wishes to reply.
u2017-06-13-102	Thank you very much. We would also have liked to have heard the opinion of the Fidesz Group, as our proposal is in line with the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office's Communication of 15 April, according to which the price impact of the inexpensive gas storage should already be applied in 2016. But our proposal is in line with the opinion of the chairman of the pro-government politicians, in particular the Parliament's Economic Committee, who believes that the proposal will become timely if the price reduction becomes permanent. Given that the government expects the oil price to be lower than the high level experienced in previous years for a longer period of time, that is, even in the planning of the 2017 budget, the government has already calculated an oil price of $42,6 per barrel, i.e. the government, i.e. the fall in prices, and therefore our proposal is very timely, and therefore we are confident that the pro-government representatives will support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-13-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Thursday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on measures H/14507 concerning certain measures necessary to alleviate wage tensions in the public sector. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. Dear Parliament, First I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs as rapporteur... [[Lajos Korózs: No, Nándor Gúr!]] Sorry, the congressman just put his mic on. Since Mr Cook is on the table, Mr Nándor Gúr will be the rapporteur. Congressman, you have the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[14.30]]
u2017-06-13-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, Mr Korózs, will speak, yes, and then he will give a group opinion. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The civil servants' and government officials' salary funds remained virtually unchanged for the last year of the second cycle, i.e. in the eighth year as well. The truth is, nine years ago, since it has remained unchanged since the global financial and economic crisis, but eight of these years are now slowly linked to Fidesz. There was no political cycle in Hungary - not even the first Orbán government, I add - when this salary base did not change. Now, two in a row represents this. Practically 38 650 HUF unchanged. It is a shame, for it has a significant impact on the size of salaries. But it is also a shame that the civil servants' payroll is unchanged. This means that, let's say, the starting position in Grade 1 A has been 69 thousand forints compared to the former for many years. More than half of the employees, and here we are talking about civil servants, civil servants, government officials, more than half working on minimum wage or guaranteed minimum wage. The problem is that in terms of wages, you do not do what should be done, you choose the simple way to raise, and that is to change the first step of the pay table, the A/1, let's say, the scale of the minimum wage. If we did that, then we would have to keep everything that we have, in the sense that the differences between wages, whether in terms of employment, employment or qualifications, remain unchanged. No, you're not taking any steps in this, but you've frozen it, like I said, A/1 to 69 grand. I'll give you an example to make it plastic, to make it feel like it. Today, for example, if a career starter starts to work, then the XXXIII. In addition to the law, the rating fee is 77 thousand forints, and if the amount of the guaranteed minimum wage has to be set, 84 thousand forints must be added. In parallel, if, for example, there is a public employee with a college degree, say, in grade F/9, at the rate of payment, then he receives HUF 159 thousand, which is below the guaranteed minimum wage, so he has to complete his salary by HUF 2000 and thus reach the minimum wage. That is to say, what should be paid is lost in the field of employment and employment. This F/9 guy, by the way, has a working relationship between the ages of 25 and 30, but he earns the same money as the start-up maintainer, who I'm not sorry about, because he doesn't have a lot of money, but the F/9 employee who has 25 to 30 years of service behind him has a terrible lack of relationship. Well, that should change. Soon everyone in Hungary will be working on a minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage. This terrible and this is unacceptable. And it sharpens this system even further by pairing it with a wage system that does not carry any uniform principle, in Hungarian, raisins, in Hungarian, in the case of extortion, or in the case of extortion. A few more years like this, no, don't be like this, I'm just saying, if there were still a few more years like this, it would be almost all the same for civil servants to have a career starter or a pension, to work on a minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage. It's a shame. This does not exist in Europe, which does not exist at the level of the Visegrád Four. If comparisons are to be made, it would be worth looking at the government in this direction. Come on. These are the things, these are the processes that require that an overview be taken on this issue, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, concrete, tangible measures be taken to weed out these torsos. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2017-06-13-105	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now speak in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and also present his position in a two-minute time frame by the present member of the independent Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group.
u2017-06-13-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supports any bill or parliamentary decision proposal on raising the wages of public sector workers and resolving the wage tension there. We, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, have expressed our position that we do not agree that the government has frozen the salaries of public sector workers, at least in the case of civil servants and other employees working in the local government, every year during the fiscal debate. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs was my fellow Member, who was primarily the advocate of this within our group, but I, along with Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, tabled an amendment to this in all the amendments to the budget law. What we need to see is that since 2008, the basic salary of civil servants has not been raised in the public sector, and this means that there has been no increase in wages for them for nine years now. Since then, real wages have been devalued by about 35-40 percent, and their real earnings have been virtually reduced. We also did not agree when the government announced last year that it would separate different groups of civil servants and give wage increases in some spheres, not in another sphere, so the civil servants working in the local government were in fact classified as second-class and second-class citizens by the government. We do not agree with this in any way, nor do we agree that the system of advancement has virtually ceased, and that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage actually determine the income of those working there, and that there can be no progress for them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2017-06-13-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-13-108	Thank you very much. Dear House, In addition to what has been said by my fellow Members, Mr Gúr and Mr Gyure, I would just like to mention one thing. It is no wonder that public sector workers are preparing for a strike. For example, on June 17th, the Treasury announced that they wanted to strike for years because they could not agree on a promotional system or an increase in the salary base with the government. Dear fellow Members, Who are we talking about here? These are those who work day and night in the maintenance and operation of the state administration. I would also like to record and repeat that there are not nearly hundreds of thousands of HUF paid, as a significant number of public sector employees, as mentioned by my fellow Member Gú, will receive a minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage, not to mention those segments of the state administration where they work even with a lower education, i.e. without a diploma, they are administrators, authors, and I could tell you who are forced to work for such miserable little money. I would like to draw your attention to one aspect. One can imagine the amount of pension that can be expected after more than 40 years of working time at a minimum wage if a person works for such a low wage and retires for decades. Even if the pension combined with the service time is calculated from after 88, a starting pension of 56-57 thousand forints can be expected for these people. In addition, I would also like to mention that these people are organising, operating the administration of the state, and all the unprofessional measures that the government is unfortunately taking must be eliminated, so I would ask my fellow Members to support our motion. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-06-13-109	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, Fidesz Group.
u2017-06-13-110	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of the government's wage measures and in order to clarify the issue, 20,000 teachers and teachers working in higher education continue to have a separate salary table and an increased salary basis. [[14.40]] 106,000 teachers now receive their salary on a separate salary table for years. Ninety-five thousand doctors and public health workers are paid on a salary bill, but on higher rates. Sixty-five thousand social, 20 thousand cultural and 15 thousand law enforcement and defence employees receive a differentiated salary allowance based on their qualifications and practical time. It can be concluded that some 375 thousand of the 450 000 civil servants are no longer paid or not only on the basis of the civil servant's salary bill. The salary gap between the pay table and today's wages has been split. The increase in salaries among government officials will take place as part of the introduction of a career as a public official. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that, as a combined effect of the above and many others, as a result of wage increases, as a result of the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the real earnings of public sector workers increased by 25 per cent on average in the six years 2010 to 2016, compared to the 7 per cent real growth over the eight years 2002 to 2010. If the question of whether the wages they receive for the public sector are sufficient or high, we say that it is not enough and not high, it is not a question for us either, but everything must be linked to the burdeny capacity of the budget and the country, so please all of you to reduce your temper. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2017-06-13-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP fully supports the inclusion of the MSZP proposal in the series of subjects. We consider it very important that steps be taken to alleviate wage tensions in the public sector. In recent years, LMP has also indicated on several occasions that the government's public wage policy is flawed, unfair and puts civil servants and civil servants working in different areas in an unworthy position. Today, the situation has become completely unsustainable, as municipalities cannot keep pace with wage increases from central sources in other areas of the public sector due to the lack of resources, and the result is that a large number of officials leave their jobs. We see that the government has been very slow in dealing with municipal civil servants and civil servants, with around 2 000 of 610 thousand public workers who have not received a wage increase in 8-10 years. Despite his earlier promise, the government left the representatives of the local government out of the uniform public service career model as if their work were worth much less. We see that the government's wage policy is damaging to Hungarian society in many respects. On the one hand, it humiliates those involved in the provision of public services and, on the other hand, it also detects those who receive a lower quality service. While the salary of a municipal civil servant is barely enough for the minimum living, we should not be surprised that they leave the municipal job, go to the competitive sector, or the public service is draining the workforce from the settlements. This shall be varied. This could be a significant step towards solving problems. We support the inclusion of the series of subjects. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-113	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the rapporteur on the agenda, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-06-13-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the support of the individual factions. My fellow Member, I would just like to say that people must not be sliced here, they must not give something to some and they must take anything, but they must take wage-type measures in general and in general. At the beginning of the salary table, instead of 69 thousand, the minimum wage must be marked, and from then on things will be fine, there can be decent living salaries. You know, Orbán forgot to tell me about yesterday when he said that Hungary is a strong and proud country, that it is one of the poorest in Europe. It doesn't matter if we look at our economic growth, whether we look at our material possessions, we see that we are in the final tract, we are at the end, unfortunately, and the losers of this are the people. People working in the competition sector and in the public sector. It is a shame that for the eighth year now, the salary base is HUF 38 650 unchanged, and you have done this for two cycles. It's a shame they stole from minimum wage people for five years, and now they're talking about making a minimum wage increase. Besides, I'd like to raise the gross weight of these money in the first place. As a consequence, it is a shame that, today, in Hungary, and then when my fellow Member encounters the NAV statements, he will see that more than half of the people working, by far more than half, work for minimum wage or for a guaranteed minimum wage or less. One word, like a hundred, does not need to create a situation where more categories of public service pay table need to be added than not, in order for people to receive a minimum wage or a guaranteed minimum wage. And to confirm my last sentence, what my colleague Korózs said: you know, the small salary is due to the small pension, the small pension and the even smaller pension and poverty. Now, you've been doing this for eight years, which is why it would be appropriate and reasonable to change this situation. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-115	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Thursday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the protection of fair procedure in accordance with EU requirements and on the transparency of public aid T/1576. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Last December 9th, on World Anti-Corruption Day, we submitted an anti-Corruption package to the Hungarian National Assembly, which was voted down by the Fidesz faction in one piece in the last six months. Part of this package is also the proposal currently under discussion, and it is very topical, by the way, in the days when, in particular, in relation to EU funds, we should ask the Minister or the Attorney General in Parliament about, say, Roland Mengyi's criminal case. The package contains a lot of questions that have been addressed to public life workers in recent years. A significant part is the complete transformation of the declaration of assets system, another very important part is our proposal to eliminate conflicts of interest and job accumulation. The third part of the package is this present proposal, which I will soon describe in more detail. And so, on the proposal of the Venice Commission, which the Fidesz government only accepts and supports in words, it contains solutions, both for the prosecution and for the court, which have been described by experts of international law or authority to the Hungarian government in order to detect and prevent abuses in both the prosecution's and the court's system of organisation. These were included in the whole package. What we have just tabled has a very important purpose, and I would like to sum it up very briefly. We wanted to put rules on the table that systematically prevent corruption. And it is possible to prevent corruption on a regular basis if we come up with a legal solution that, if adopted, is simply not worth any of the parties trying to do such stunts. In the present case, this would be done, as we propose, not primarily to increase the threat of criminal law, but to continue to do so, regardless of whether these cases are being committed, but to ensure, on the one hand, that the rules on conflicts of interest and, on the other hand, that the public are fully aware of the transparency of spending each EU or budget resource on a tender. On the other hand, if these rules were broken, we would say, by the power of the law, that the grant agreement is null and void. Without any specific legal procedure. So, if you don't put him out... [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks.]] I will give examples in case I can draw the attention of my right-wing fellow Members to myself a little bit, so in the trade-off case, for example, where, for a very, very long period of time, opposition representatives have tried to find out who won and who didn't and why, as a general rule, it would be part of the law to publish the winning proposals, to publish the losing proposals, and to publish the justification for them, to see exactly what happened in the background. It is necessary to publish who criticized the application, what people they are and whether they have any conflict of interest in the case. [[14.50]] And if only the disclosure obligation is violated, the contract will be void. This has two consequences: in the case of unpaid aid, the aid is not granted to the entrepreneur, of course it must be repaid in the case of aid paid. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] From this point forward, neither the entrepreneur nor the company that signs up to spend EU or domestic funds did not care that this would happen in the proceedings, of course the applicant or the person who made the decision will not be interested, because according to another rather Spartan solution, he is responsible for the lawlessness with his personal assets. (Noise in Jobbik's ranks. ) There are very, very hard sanctions on both sides, none of which is about what is in criminal law today, that when someone commits such a misdemeanor, he will be convicted, arrested, and then spent 2 to 2.5 million forints a year on public money to eat and warm in his cell or to be cold, but it is precisely about interfering with the law where it hurts the most in such a legal relationship. This is that the entrepreneur simply doesn't get the money; this is that the politician or the administrative co-worker is responsible for his own assets if he does dirty work. We ask you to support this solution, and we believe that this will help to eliminate corruption in Hungary's spending of public money in the long term. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group. With all due respect, my fellow Members, it is quite disturbing when the Member speaks, while there is a loud laugh in the other row, whether it is his own faction or another faction. Let's honor each other so much, let's hear it. Thank you for your understanding. You have the floor.
u2017-06-13-118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Group supports a substantive debate on the bill before us, as it is about combating corruption. If we look back at the 27 years left behind, we can say that, unfortunately, there has been enormous corruption under all governments. From 2010, Fidesz and KDNP have changed so much that they operate the system of corruption. In this motion, which was submitted by the socialists, the subsidies from the general government sub-schemes, European Union funds and other programmes financed under an international agreement, would also cover the proposals and the companies founded by the MNB, the Hungarian National Bank. It is a very important element of this motion that it should not become a candidate, that it should not be supported, inter alia, by anyone who has any connection with the decision-making process, that there is no way, in person, who would have an undue advantage in the possession of tender information, that there is no political link and that no organisation which does not qualify as a transparent organisation is not allowed to enter into a political relationship. We can, of course, support this suggestion on our part, as we have seen, for example, that the wives of the Fidesz Members of Parliament were fond of various subsidies. Here it is enough, let us say, to refer to the land issue and to how much support L. Simon László's wife, working as a fitness coach, has received, but in the second place on the list is István Horváth, and Erik Bánki has also become a podiumist, and he is the third in this respect. But there are many other examples that could be set, and given the shortness of time, I cannot do that. I would point out, however, that the Jobbik faction has also tabled legislative proposals either in relation to the acquisition of assets or in relation to tenders, and we have also had proposals for a decision concerning public procurement procedures and the spending of public funds. So we have done our best in recent years, too, and we can promise that, following our accession to the government in 2018, we will be ruthless in terms of corruption. This is one of the most important commitments of the future Jobbik government. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-119	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-13-120	Thank you very much. Let me tell you the faction point of the MSZP, which is perhaps just a summary or a supplement to what my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó said. Indeed, the purpose of this regulation is to make the regulation itself, so to speak, preventive. This means that potential fraudsters should not enter into a bid that they would apply for clearly with the intention of stealing public money, whether it is European Union or Hungarian state resources. After all, if there are adequate conflict of interest rules, if there is transparency in the entire process, if the public is guaranteed, then it is certainly possible to control such a process much better. Thus, once again, this proposal also serves preventive purposes, so that abuses could be significantly reduced, thereby increasing confidence, confidence in the tendering process, and the efficiency of these resources, as we would spend these resources on good and good purposes. Perhaps even those who do not apply today would dare and would want to apply because they say that they have already ordered a tender, which of these fidesz oligarchs is taking these funds. Indeed, conflicts of interest are important, since many policy makers may have information that favours them or their relatives or relatives. If such rules were in place, the Matolcsy family would not have made such a career, it would have been certain, either Lőrinc Mészáros, or even Congressman Mengyi, or Congressman Simonka, or Flórian Farkas, but they probably wouldn't have started some dark or non-transparent activity, so that we would have saved a number of budgetary resources, the taxpayers' money. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-13-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, LMP Group.
u2017-06-13-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly: of course, we support any proposal that hinders and hinders the process that can be called the biggest organized series of frauds in Hungarian history, and this is the theft of EU money. We do not have too much doubt now that Fidesz will not support this, however we will support it. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-123	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Just the truth!]]
u2017-06-13-124	Thank you very much. At the committee meeting, we also said that we believe that this bill contains in particular provisions which are now contained in other laws. Without the need for completeness: for example, rules on the conflict of interest of aid are still covered by the Public Finance Act 48/B. § 5 and Art. 50, par. Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides that: Government decree. The above-mentioned Government Decree also contains appropriate provisions for making a declaration. With regard to nullity, the sixth book of the Civil Code is 95. §2 clearly provides for null and void contracts under the prohibition of contract designation. About the use of the judicial path in the first book of the Civil Code 6. §2 of the Act. The Act on Public Data Management, the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information, as well as the Public Finance Act, and not least the Fundamental Law, also provides for it. Thus, the legislative proposal contains a crucial part which is already contained in other legislation, so it is absolutely unnecessary to include it in a series of articles or to adopt such a law. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-06-13-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, who, as rapporteur, wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-06-13-126	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for the fact that, in the light of the seriousness of the matter, they have, in the end, largely quieted down. Anyway, it's really nerve-racking today and what's going on here in Parliament, but maybe you can take it a little bit longer. Thank you very much for the support of opposition parties. Thank you specifically for the fact that my better fellow Member seems to have read the proposal either now or earlier and is aware of what this is about. That is not entirely the case for my pro-government fellow Member. [[15.00]] You know, Congressman Vas, you're right that this law looks like a lot of others. Imagine, it has the same letters and the same words in it, compared to what you've said, that's a load of nonsense. He doesn't want or can't understand the substance of the law. The point of the law is not to have to challenge a contract in court on the grounds of the civil code, whether it is null or not, but to say it in this law, and the system is harsh. If these rules are violated, then without any court decision, the contract is null and void, and the contractor does not receive the money, or he must pay it back. Yes, there was a part of the debate that raised an interesting question about what was going on with those cases, say, if something is half recovered, and then it turns out that it was dirty. I am still of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, that in the first one or two cases there may be semi-finished buildings, but that many entrepreneurs will not think of doing such a thing afterwards, I am sure, and this country should have a few examples of straightening up these things; simply, as my fellow Member Mesterházy says, let us make a system where they do not even begin, and do not even begin to wonder how Voldemort or even go into other such matters. We ask you to support our proposal.
u2017-06-13-127	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Thursday's meeting. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the law necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy as rapporteur in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sure I won't take the five minutes, because it's not a new law, so the pro-government representatives could get to know each other a lot. Actually, it's the 15th time that we're gonna do it. My predecessor, András Schiffer, started it, and I've already passed this law for the third time. You're obviously familiar with him, and you're obviously not going to vote for him today, but we're bringing him here because he was immediately voted back on by the Justice Committee, and that's what we were expecting. We bring it here to make it a little uncomfortable for those who themselves were involved in this law, or to make it unpleasant for those parties who continue to protect these people. Here, Congresswoman asked how many times we had submitted it, and I said how many times. He said he could do it once or twice, and then, obviously, the important thing is that, in the event of a change of government, we do it again, and then we accept it. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-129	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-13-130	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me just say to my fellow Member Hadházy that you have very much respect for this initiative, because it is indeed being submitted many times, but let me draw your attention to this, if you have time to read the previous minutes written by this House, let me offer you a comment on 1 March 2005, which I did at the time when I was 31, a much younger politician on this subject. Since then, I have vowed that when this issue is on the agenda in this House, I will always comment on this debate, no matter who, when and in what sense, will submit this proposal. There have been many forms of this, and such a proposal has always failed. Let us be fair, this proposal has failed in our government as well. These governing parties seem to own the fact that, for some reason, they still support the entire public from opposition, and when they get there, for some reason they suddenly stand behind the mask of the profession or behind the real professional reasons of this support. I just want to be brief, because there are two minutes: I think we've been carrying this problem with us since the change of regime. Until there is full publicity, this issue cannot be resolved, and we cannot fully close the regime change. Two: there is no complete truth, because there was no data, there was no record of it, so we will not find the full, 100% absolute truth, but to make sure that this information cannot be abused, so that there are no different accusations and discreditable facts about people here and there, so that only the entire public can guarantee it. Therefore, for my part, I am 31 years old, and now, at 43 years old, I am in favour of settling this issue in the Hungarian Parliament, and this settlement can only be given to the general public. There are, indeed, national security interests, but the policy must draw the line, because the profession is clearly unable to do so. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-13-131	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2017-06-13-132	Thank you very much. If I say something unpleasant, Congressman Hadházy, it is not unpleasant for us, it is unpleasant for you that you cannot draw up a professional law for the 15th time. Unfortunately, Congressman Mesterházy has gone out, and I would say that the governing parties, if the MSZP is on the government, really have it their own to vote against such legislative proposals, but I would remind my fellow Members that, on the one hand, we have set up the National Remembrance Committee, and on the other hand, my fellow Members can vote on the bill by Gergely Gulyás, Zsolt Nyitrai and myself on the maintenance of the secret service activities of the last system and on the establishment of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services of 2003. Act T/15844 amending Act T/1584 and certain related laws. Bill No. 1 aimed at making magnetic tapes traceable. If we accept this bill, then we will make it completely researchable in the circle that is not contrary to the interests of Hungary. So I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill I have mentioned, and then we can create full disclosure, the disclosure of magnetic tapes. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-06-13-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-134	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Interestingly, there are two requests for a series of items in a row that both of which are afraid of Fidesz-KDNP as devils of incense smoke. One of them, when it comes to preventing or revealing corruption, is immediately not supported, and the other, when we talk about the Lustration or the need to face the communist past, is not supported either. And so far we have come to the point that the MSZP, which is the successor party of the MSZMP, would already support the opposition to the past, and you who claim to be national and Christian and conservative, you are doing everything in the world to prevent any such law related to it from passing. Why is that? After all, Congressman Hadházy has said that they have submitted this 15 times, and we have submitted our proposals on the same subject at least 15 times. You've always voted it off, you always refer to something because you're afraid of people who are still sitting in their ranks, who are still in high positions and who might be involved, because you served that communist system, because you are from the same source. For the last 27 years, the parties who have ruled this country, both you and the MSZP, have been afraid to explore the communist past. Indeed, as my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said, when they are on the government, whether you or they are, they do not support this. There is only one change in this country: when we can finally face our past, we can face the horrors of communism, because they were terrifying, because they destroyed families, when the 21st century. Century parties will govern this country, such as the Jobbik Hungary Movement. We are not afraid to expose the cases of corrupted and burdened governments, to put those people who have sinned in prison, whoever it is, and to exclude those who are so communists and sit here in Parliament like the people you are. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.10]]
u2017-06-13-135	Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the factions. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-06-13-136	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for the support of opposition representatives. I hope that when we are on the government, they will support it. And to the pro-government comment, I would like to say that what you are doing with this bill is very typical, because you know very well that these magnetic tapes are only part of the puzzle, only part of the puzzle. It's possible they found something on it that they'd like to show you, which is what you're doing. What concerns you, I'd like to hide what you've found about someone else, I'd like to show you. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-137	Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Thursday's meeting. The LMP Group has proposed that Parliament decide on the T/14725 amendment of individual laws to improve the situation of pensioners. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the elements of my bill to improve the situation of pensioners is that the HUF 28 500 minimum old-age pension should be raised to HUF 50,000 by the Parliament. I have to say that the majority of the government voted him down at the committee meeting without even firing his eyes, he was not ashamed. What kind of world do we live in, I ask. There is money to make stadiums, unnecessary luxury investments, but there is no money for old people to improve the situation of pensioners. Unfortunately, there are quite a number of people in the country, social groups, age groups, completely abandoned by the government. There are tens of thousands of people who are miserable, starving and freezing in winter. This group includes 71,000 pensioners whose monthly pension is below HUF 50,000. The Prime Minister recently stated here in Parliament that the government has fulfilled all its obligations in the area of pensions and has maintained the purchasing value of pensions in the last seven years. But that is not true, fellow Members. This claim fails immediately at the minimum old-age pension. The minimum amount of the old-age pension, which is HUF 28 500, has been unchanged since 2008. During this period, his value must have lost a quarter. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Think of what this amount is enough for - for people to starve to death. Of course, you have solved the problem by imposing parental responsibility. But what about the people your family can't help because they have a lot of problems, too? Have you guys looked at the retired consumer basket yet? Some elderly people receive a pension of HUF 28,500, which is just enough to pay off their medicines. How do they cover the rent, what do they get for their daily food? We also see that social solidarity is completely out of your system. The majority of the government voted against the increase of the old-age pension minimum to HUF 50,000 by referring to the fact that this also affects the amount of many other social benefits, i.e. they also increase. I have just read an article about this article, which said that this effect could result in a budget surplus of up to HUF 100 billion. I'm saying it's okay. The government says the budget is good, the economy is good. Mihály Varga said earlier that the budget closed with HUF 180 billion in the first two months of the year. There's a source for that. Lőrinc Mészáros should not increase his wealth by HUF 100 billion in a year, but the elderly who work a life fairly should provide these resources. Please, fellow Members, change your mind and support tomorrow the increase in the minimum retirement pension of HUF 28 500 to HUF 50,000. My other bill was to stop the government from sitting on the pensioner's money. In January, the government first wanted to grant a 0.9 percent pension, but it changed that, and they got a 1.6 percent pension increase. But why 1.6 percent, we do not know the answer, because the Hungarian National Bank already predicted 2.4 percent inflation for this year, which eventually changed to 2.6 percent. Instead of correcting the 1.6 percent increase, the government decided to pay the difference only in November. Why not now and why in November? I think the answer is simple: the government simply thinks pensioners are stupid. He believes that the lump sum increase will enable them to be bought, since there will be elections in early 2018. But the moment of truth will come, and pensioners will also judge your governance next spring 2018. I would also ask my fellow pro-government Members to support my bill tomorrow. Thank you.
u2017-06-13-139	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of Members and the first independent Member to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik faction will, of course, support the inclusion of the proposal in the series. We are well aware that we are experiencing injustices in the current pension system and in payments, and that the system is unfair. One part is the setting of the minimum retirement pension, this is 28 500 HUF, which has not changed for a very long time. I do not agree with the explanation that this affects a lot of other benefits, as well as the target number for determining certain benefits and determining eligibility. I think that a little extra work would be worth a raise. At the very least, we would at least have the opportunity to circumscribe benefits and eligibility limits a little in the current social care system and in the social law. The increase of this amount to HUF 50,000 will make it possible to change the rates, percentages or descriptions, and the system of other benefits can be adapted to the new increased amount. The other issue is the system of annual pension increases. We have a different vision of the pension system, but we can also support it, because we can see how unfair this system is. I'm a man who doesn't believe the statistics, I believe what I experience on my own skin, or what people tell me in everyday life, and as much as they raise inflation, people's everyday feeling, their own experience shows more, doesn't show that the price increase was only 2.6 percent compared to last year. That's why we need to make the system fairer. By the way, we are not introducing this automatic, calculated inflation pension increase for everyone when we get to government, but we are going to introduce a striped pension increase to give the small pensioners a higher amount of money in proportion than those with a pension of up to HUF 200-300 thousand. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-06-13-142	Thank you very much. Dear House, The disgrace began in 2012, all the more so because the current pension system has been mutilated and all the injustices have been encoded. One of these injustices is that practically nine years ago, as the author said, the pension minimum of old age remains unchanged. My dear friends, you can talk nonsense here, but you can't assign 28 500 forints for a month! - and that's it. Last year and the previous year, my colleague Nándor Gúr and I presented such a proposal, and the Fidesz majority in the committee swept it down by saying that so few people are affected by the increase to HUF 50,000 that it is not worth considering. That's what a Fidesz congressman from the poorest county in the country said. Shame and shame, I'm sorry. The injustice is that three or four years ago the ceiling was abolished and the possibility that there are millions of HUF pensions in Hungary today is a villain! [[15.20]] On one side, 28 500 HUF is the size of the initial pension and on the other side you can get 130 times the size of the pension; last year it was 170 times. Dear Friends! I think that this is intolerable in a civilised European country. As it was intolerable to put an end to retirement under the age limit, it was intolerable to allow age allowances, age allowances, the abolition of service pensions. And it is also intolerable that Hungary is the only civilised country in the world where there is no invalidity or accident disability pension. Please, 130 years ago, there was an invalidity pension in Hungary, even if not in this form, but at Weiss Manfréd, the workers had already created voluntary cash registers that provided for widows and orphaned children. This is what we should be discussing here, which is why the Socialist Party will support this motion. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-06-13-143	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-06-13-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And I thank my fellow opposition Members for their support. I'm shocked that you're a pro-government representative, and the government doesn't want to comment on that. You're simply putting dust in the eyes of pensioners. But when it comes to such a minimal thing, they keep quiet. You, sitting here in this room, don't look up about it right now. I'll be very curious about what they'll say to the pensioners in the coming period. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Choices are decided.]] I would also like to say that the LMP... Election, not an option - 28 500 forints will not make a living! [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. You were able to keep 28 500 forints and did not vote for the minimum retirement pension of 50,000 forints. I wish you would live in your old age with such a large amount of money. It's gonna be very interesting what they're gonna do. Shame on you, and that's what I'm saying. Not before the elections and after the elections, you've been fooling pensioners for years now, but you're not doing anything, you're constantly fooling them. I would also like to say that the LMP imagines a pension increase differently, but this simply could not be swallowed, that the government could not even give this little money to pensioners now, but will be able to collect it by November and use the money of pensioners without interest. This is simply unacceptable. I will be very curious tomorrow whether one of you will be brave enough to vote for this bill. Thank you.
u2017-06-13-145	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Thursday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/15422 on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, I shall first give the floor to Mr Gábor Staudt, on behalf of the Jobbik Group, as rapporteur within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-06-13-146	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We do not give up on the amendment of the basic law, which concerned the immigration issue, to draw attention to and make Hungarian society realize that Fidesz hypocritically submitted this proposal to exploit its own political goals, and not because it really wanted to protect the country. Well, he wanted to protect her, but not at the price of losing big money, and not at the price that the settlement policy was issued last year. Last November, the first vote took place when Jobbik said that neither the rich nor the poor migrants should come to Hungary, and that we can only give our support to a proposal that offers a perfect, comprehensive solution. We were neither the Juncker nor the Rogan quotas nor we could support them. There was a big debate then, obviously in a give-and-take much has been said. Now they would have had the opportunity, and in the parliamentary vote they would have had the opportunity to eliminate this damage. What's this about? You say I don't want to return the settlement policy. There are question marks in this, because, despite Viktor Orbán's statement that the construction has been terminated, this is obviously not true, because it is only on pause. No more bonds will be sold at the moment. But we know that if Fidesz were to win the 18th election, it would be possible to bring it back, not even to change the law. Therefore, the proposal before us contains, on the one hand, the same amendment to the basic law that failed in the final vote in November and contains the same amendment that was already tabled at the time, so that no government can do in any way, not now, or in the future, to grant the right of establishment for consideration to anyone. You are talking about around 1300 quota seekers here, and there may already be over 20 thousand of them - we do not know the final numbers after the last big rush - who can come to Hungary after paying the money, and the fact that the four-way check you call so strong has given practically condemned criminals the opportunity to gain a right of establishment, also in the European Union. We asked the question, and they didn't answer that if Juncker had then bought a settlement policy for all residents, or a bond for people who had previously been admitted as migrants or refugees, then they could have come. Yeah, you could've come, it could've happened formally. In addition, they should have paid even four times the interest to the European Union on these bonds. So I must say that even the European Union would have benefited from the construction. We also have to say as new information that at an international conference in Geneva, you could read it in the press, it was mentioned that the Hungarian settlement bond scheme was mentioned as an example of how you cannot provide a settlement bond to those who want it and how the state can lose. And the profits of offshore companies can be accumulated, and in other ways anyone is the winner of the construction, only the Hungarian state and the Hungarian taxpayers are not. By the way, at the conference, they said that they would suspend sales when the election comes, but then the practice is to restart it. In addition to the Chinese who received the largest number of settlement bonds, Afghan, Iraqi, Iranian, Yemeni, Pakistani, Syria, Saudi Arabian people could come to Hungary to mention only a few countries. And if you look at the sum totality of how much this is worth to the Hungarian State, you will receive EUR 271 thousand, which will have to be repaid with interest and 300,000, as this includes the EUR 29 thousand discount, which will also remain with offshore companies; plus a commission of approximately EUR 60 thousand will increase the benefits of companies. Which means EUR 271 thousand for the State, with four times interest, with a repayment obligation, and about EUR 90 thousand for these companies. Obviously, they just have to put it in their pockets through offshore companies. So the ratio is two-thirds - everyone can decide who this construction was worth it to. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-147	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can express his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I'll ask if the factions want to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik Group.
u2017-06-13-148	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague Gábor Staudt has already explained the reasons why this bill should be supported. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán spoke here in Parliament yesterday about the fact that the Orbán government is indeed defending Hungary. He protects her, he says, and he made a promise -- but who are you protecting her from? Because what we see is that at the moment when Fidesz business circles profit from resettlement, the members of the Orbán government will certainly be the first to receive this opportunity and install foreigners organized for Hungary, organised migrants. I mean, it's very clear that it's all a government communication scam that we're talking about on migration. The European Union would like to introduce thousands or a few hundred migrants here, which Jobbik, of course, rejects; we do not want to install any migrants here. [[15.30]] On the other hand, the Fidesz government has already installed about ten thousand people of the migrants, for money, for money that some people have taken up around HUF 200 billion in pure profits. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: It's a bloody lie!]] [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: It's a bloody lie!]] For every person who buys this settlement policy, after everyone, the intermediary company realizes a profit of approximately HUF 25 million. This 25 million HUF profit goes into someone's pocket, which made the Fidesz government interested in installing it in Hungary, even in the order of ten thousand, migrants. (Dr. Peter Hoppál: Lying in the Eye!) Of course, migrants can come for money, and otherwise they can't come. Anyone who supports that there should not be a foreign population in Hungary should support this bill. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's right!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-13-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone will be given the opportunity to comment immediately. I now give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2017-06-13-150	Thank you very much for the floor. The previous two speakers were not very disturbed by the knowledge of the facts. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: You're lying like a river!]] They have no idea what they're talking about anyway. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Disappoint, Imre!]] My colleague Gábor Staudt said that they would not give up. You gave up on 8 November 2016 between 10:6 p.m. and 7 p.m., when you did not have at least two Members who would have voted for T/12458 in the final vote. Bill No. 2, which was in substance the same as this law. Because what you added didn't change the content of the proposal, by the way. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Yes, you can. Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right! Lajos Rig: Say this after 18! Dr. Gábor Staudt: How much did you get?]] That would only have meant that an IRM regulation should have been repealed. Then, in what is called bond business, only one forint public money has not migrated to one Hungarian company. Only one forint public money did not migrate, but helped finance the Hungarian budget. But it's practically a thing of the past. As a result of the activities of the last seven years, we have put the economy in such a position that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian budget, does not need such funding. So it was you who did not vote for the same amendment of the basic law a few minutes after 10 a.m. on 8 November 2016. So you guys go ahead and blame yourselves. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-06-13-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the factions. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Staudt Gábor, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-06-13-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have heard arguments worthy of ghost giants in relation to both the yellings and the comments that have been made. Do you know how much public money or not public money is: Mr Vas, have you ever heard of, for example, concession contracts? [[Dr. Vas Imre: I heard.]] For example, when - and compared to - the right of establishment is sold out by a state, which is the law of the State, to decide how to do so, and it can be broadcast exclusively by offshore companies, it is that it is public money, or money that is abstract from the public, that goes in there. It is also public money that they have received a discount of EUR 29 000 out of EUR 300,000. It's also public money. And it's also public money for how much taxes should have been paid. And it's definitely public money that they're now paying quadruple interest on these bonds. How do you think the Hungarian State will pay these interest rates, if nothing more than public money? Yes, last year's proposal could not be accepted because of the rich migrants [[Dr. Vas Imre's intervention.]] He said yes to the rich migrants, he didn't care. All I can tell you is that I have told you the statistics you sent me, your ministry, how many people have received the right of establishment and the opportunity to live in Hungary. That's what you can say it's a lie, but it's your ministers who lie when they release this data. Not to mention that we don't see the final numbers yet, so when we put this estimate around 20,000, they build from the previous data. I understand that it is very unpleasant for you that money is more important than protecting your country, trying to wrap and pass on this responsibility in every way, but believe me, the voters will also see through the situation and decide accordingly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-13-153	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Thursday's meeting. Dear Parliament, Before I move on to the next agenda, I would like to ask the MSZP Group that Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi... [[Attila Mesterházy reporting.]] Congressman Attila Mesterházy took over, all right. Dear Parliament, We now have a debate before we decide on the Commission's resolution on the interpretation of house rules. I would like to inform you that the MSZP Group has requested that the Parliament decide on the Justice Committee 9/2014-18. IUB. of a case-by-case nature. The application was lodged in the Official Journal of the European Union. You can find it on the website. In the debate, the rapporteur for the group that proposed the decision and then the committee responsible for interpreting the rules of the house may be the first to speak. The speeches will then take place. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-06-13-154	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal concerns the rejection by Parliament of a decision of the Judicial Committee, which was a decision of a case-by-case nature. There was a dispute between the Speaker and the MSZP faction, because the Speaker considered that the faction's submission, namely in the petition on the abolition of the lex CEU, contained a sentence in violation of Parliament's authority. This is how it is said that János Áder has lost his character as President, so he becomes a smudge of shame as a paprika. This is included in the grounds of the MSZP. So the President of the Republic is considered to be a paprika because he has signed a law on which famous constitutional lawyers have established today, described it today, drew his attention to the fact that it is unconstitutional, in addition to violating our national interests. We therefore believe that János Áder is also the puppet of Viktor Orbán, and in this respect he did his job as a paprika-jáncsi. The protestors said much worse than that, which I wouldn't quote in the House right now. They rewrote a lot of songs and made jokes about his moustache, adding a permanent noun to his moustache. I therefore think that this is a clear and clear political opinion that can be debated, but we also find that the Speaker is constantly giving a political opinion on the various factions. This has been the case since 2012, and I, as a group leader in November 2012, in May 13, 2012 and at the end of May 13, turned to the House Committee on behalf of the ranking of the Chairman. That political opinion doesn't seem to bother you unless it comes from a opposition party. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
u2017-06-13-155	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Justice Committee, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-13-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/15071 on the abolition of lex CEU. I would like to add, in particular, that a few points on the agenda were not discussed in this bill, but in a more fair version of it, at least from a point of view. This is the President of the Parliament in the House Rule 29. On 25 April 2017, he rejected his right under paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act, since his view was that the reasons for the bill violate the authority of the Parliament. The petitioners of the rejected text requested the position of the order of business committee in the House Rule 29. Paragraph 6 of this Article. In its ad hoc position, the committee examines whether it was the place, the basis and the reason for rejecting the text. The Committee examined the text of the rejected bill and concluded that its justification contained offensive terms [[Attila Mesterházy: Who?]] especially for the President of the Republic. [[15.40]] In the Committee's view, the negotiation of a motion of manifestly frivolous and offensive content is incompatible with the authority of the Parliament. Rejecting such a motion is the House Rule 29 of the Speaker's Decision. The rights and obligations arising out of its task under paragraph 3 of Section 3 of this Article shall be added. On all these grounds, the committee stated in its ad hoc resolution that the Speaker László Kövér acted in accordance with the house rules when the House Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure was adopted. Paragraph 3 (b) of the Act rejects T/15071 on the abolition of lex CEU, which is obviously offensive. a bill submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. As a consequence of what has been said, the house rules are set at 138. I ask the Honourable Parliament to reject the request of Sándor Burány and his fellow Members, thus maintaining the committee's position. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-06-13-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and in a two-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the factions. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2017-06-13-158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So if the Speaker of the House can give a political opinion in this House, then Members can say it, in my judgment. I'd like to mention examples, some of which are closer, some that go further back. In 2013, following a speech by my fellow Member, István Józsa, before the agenda, László Kövér sat on the bench and gave the floor to State Secretary Zoltán Cséfalvay as follows: This is one of the finer ones. I'll give you another one. This was also said in 2013, addressing the group of the MSZP, we are talking about László Kövér:. So if you think you can order a large spritzer next to the pub atmosphere, but it would be even better if you behave like men in the Parliament. It'll make us feel better. You understand the word, don't you? The president can do anything, of course the president can't be criticized during the sitting, he can do political opinions or anything else, while the Members can do nothing. Or one more from the recent past, I might add with what kind of moral foundation it is not in itself worthy of the fact that the ladies and gentlemen on my left can sit in this Parliament at all. They're just examples, patterns. I could say a lot more like that, but my final sentence is that they know they don't have to fight their own demons, nobody, the current president, nobody else, the Prime Minister. It is not necessary for those who have lived their lives as Soros children, either those on the left or those on the left to call their fellow Members as attackers, who may have been political colleagues at the Social Sciences Institute of the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party. So, let's all take the consistency down, and, after deduction of the consequences, let's all say values and opinions similar to what I've read. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-13-159	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, who will give you a rejoinder.
u2017-06-13-160	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Vas Imre said that this is obviously a frivolous presentation. I would recommend that the only justification for this is 40 lines, not the law itself, but the justification for it 40 lines, of which there is only one line that you object to, which, once again, sounds like: János Áder has lost his presidential character, so he becomes a disgrace. So much for what's frivolous, what's not. But if there's anything frivolous, I'd like to quote the president of the immunity committee, who said that what's important is what's on the record, not what's happened. There was a time when the verdict was read before the indictment. So this is really a reminder of communist times, that what is important in the minutes is not what the Members have done, and that is why they have tried to condemn socialist representatives before. So I just want to say that once again, let me draw attention to the political opinion that politicians can express here in the House. This is what the Speaker of the House is doing, categorizing the opposition factions, in many cases in a low-critic way, while the Act on Parliament states that the President is leading the meeting impartially, since the president is not leading the Fidesz faction or the Fidesz election in this House, but the Hungarian Parliament, where there are also Members who disagree with his view of the world and his political position. In closing, let me just say, [[To Dr. Vas Imre:]] You know, my honourable fellow Member - I am sorry to say this to you, but many of you are no longer here - it violates the authority of the Parliament that you have passed such a law on the CEU, which violates the freedom of teaching, the freedom of higher education, this violates the authority of the Parliament, this violates our national interests, or that you have adopted a civil law which is also unconstitutional and embarrassing the Hungarian Parliament. So these laws should be revoked, as should be the case with this Committee on Justice resolution, so that would save the authority of Parliament, not what you say. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-06-13-161	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur for the Justice Committee, who also wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-06-13-162	Thank you very much. What Congressman Mesterházy has quoted here from the justification for this bill is enough to violate the authority of Parliament, in my opinion. What you have said about others, I think that if more universities compete for students, if we create a level playing field, it should not prejudice Hungary's authority, even if it violates the interests of certain circles, and they obviously then stand up for something that they may, in their soul, know is wrong. Thank you for listening.
u2017-06-13-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on Thursday's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Péter Hoppál, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Festival Life." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-06-13-164	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, When the current government took office in 2010, but at the beginning of the 2014 government cycle, its fundamental objective was to reduce in all areas the strong capital-rural development conflict that, as a result of previous failed left-wing policies, created a giant waterhead that focused solely on the development of the Hungarian capital and left the region to decay, decay and poverty. To compensate for this, the Fidesz-KDNP government has been working for seven years now to improve the balance of competences between rural cities and the capital, not unsuccessfully. Investment in the economy and industry, wage development, modern cities, are all aimed at this. In the field of culture, we have called the programme which aims at achieving a state in which citizens living in any area of the country can obtain high-quality cultural programmes, close to their place of residence. As a Member of Parliament and as a cultural secretary of state, I consider the cultural emancipation of the Hungarian people to my heart, even though I have always advocated increasing the budget support of the flagship festivals in the capital over the last few years. In the spirit of this cultural emancipation, the Budapest Spring Festival, Café Budapest, Mitem International Theatre Festival, the rural cultural festival framework has been introduced in recent years with an annual budget support of almost two billion years, which last year provides a fixed amount of HUF 250, this year 500, and next year's budget of HUF 750 million for the planning of the large rural festivals, of course in addition to the resources available in the NKA's tender framework. [[15.50]] Of this 500 million this year, 46 cultural festivals and events were supported by the cultural government this year, bearing in mind the high artistic and cultural quality of the decision, as well as the maintenance of the rural art festival life close to the place of residence, in addition to cultural decentralisation. In addition to this framework, Bartók's year last year and Kodály's Kodály programme will provide 200-200 million funding to host the Bartók Plus Opera Festival in Miskolc, which represents a high international standard. The fact that the grants serve a good purpose also indicates that 30 of the 40 Hungarian events have won the title of the European Certified Festival. Among them is the National Theatre Meeting in Pécs, the POSZT, and a new event in Pécs, the Zsolnay Light Festival. In Baranya, the creation of high-quality new cultural festivals and the constant increase in the number of visitors to traditional events can be measured by the need for quality cultural festivals, and now it is possible to create this. An excellent example of this is the town of Komló, Baranya County, that a small town with a heavy industrial past of 23 thousand can succeed in creating a cultural event that attracts many people or even represents a high level of art. In addition to the National Theatre Meeting in Pécs, three years ago, with these objectives in mind and the real need for the local initiative, the Komló Amateur Theatre Meeting, the KASZT, which has been held for the third year with a huge success and full-husband performances, will be opened the day after this year's four-day event. In addition to the growing number of restaurants, such as the Komló Sausage Filling Festival at the beginning of the year, which has a seven-year history, the Baranya town also hosts events involving representatives of high culture, such as the traditional Kodály Zoltán International Children's Choir Festival related to this year's Kodály Year. In addition, there is a great deal of anticipation and a high number of applications, with the support of 10 million HUF from the government, the Seven Hop Hill film festival for the first time this year. At the latter event, Hungarian and cross-border professional and amateur filmmakers compete in front of a highly prestigious professional jury. Dear House, Thus, a good example of the flourishing of high-quality festival life is Komló, the cultural center of the region. We strongly recommend to other cities the success story of Komló and the hops, and good organisation of cultural festivals can play a role in creating equal opportunities in the countryside. We wish the Hopians further success, and we are pleased that in addition to the exemplary organization, the Hopians contribute to the success of the festivals with their friendly hospitality.
u2017-06-13-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for a post- Agenda address:.Atlantis sinking, or when the government finally recognizes that if all goes on, the Ormany will also absorb South Somogy. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-06-13-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, During my last speech in the spring session, what else could I talk about, such as South Somogy, my narrower Patria, the walks of which the Ormania is preparing to swallow, as they disappear as sinking Atlantis, and may become annihilation if the current government does not pay attention and much more attention to this region, this region, the settlements that live here. I've been here for three years now as some stick-making successor to János Kodolányi or even Gyula Illyés... [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: It's strong!]] I was talking about a staffed successor, my dear fellow Member, but it would be your responsibility to prevent these words in such a way that they are no longer responsible for paying much more attention to the South-Transdanubian region, including South Baranya or South Somogy. I mean, like Géza Kiss, the Reformed pastor of Kakics, who rang the alarm bells about the destruction of the Ormany, I'm trying to do something like this here, and I'm drawing the attention of my esteemed pro-government colleagues to the fact that this region deserves a lot more than that. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Rising!]] like what you're about to get. Because the people who live there are right to feel that this area has been wiped off the map. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: 80 years!]] they rightly feel that they have been pushed to the side of the road, and they rightly feel that if they were buried alive and alive, because Budapest, the government, had forgotten their problems. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: This happened 80 years ago!]] And I would like to make these problems come to light here from time to time, and I would like to try to draw your attention to the urgent need to do something, because there are so many other things not only for South Baranya, but also for South Somogy. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Go down to the Ormans!]] If we look at the regions in Hungary, then the 10th position of the 263 European regions in South Transdanubia is the 10th place in the back, and the fact is that the metrics, the indicators on which this tenth place has come out have even deteriorated in the past period. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: It was worse five years ago!]] In particular, South Somogy is in an even worse situation, since if you look at the nine Transdanubian counties, the 69 walks, then there are 12 districts from the 69 districts, the condition of which, due to the serious situation there, has otherwise been classified as walking to be developed or developed with a complex program. The fact is that 3 of these 12 districts are located in South Somogy, in the area of the Somogy 2nd Constituency. The situation is very bad in the districts of Csurgo, Nagyatádi and Barcsi, and the sad situation, dear fellow Member Hoppal, is that they are not in a better position in the neighbourhood, because the Sellyei district is perhaps the second worst in the country. So it can't pull up our neighborhood either. The issue of small village syndrome, in a way that has become powerful in the area, emigration, ageing, unsolved Gypsy-Hungarian co-existence, is a matter of troubling problems that make the future of the settlements here gloomy. It has to be brought up, yes, the unsolved gypsy question has to be raised. Instead of you, my honourable fellow Member, having released the hand of the Farkas Flórian, whose hands had been covered with huge money, you have made a new alliance with him, which is a shame, a disgrace, rather than going to paradise, thanks to the gratitude of Viktor Orbán Farkas. The fact is that the dream you have set out for the people here, namely the three rooms and the four wheels, for many young people here, can only be achieved by leaving their homeland and seeking the fulfillment of their happiness in Austria or England. The fact that middle-classization is stuck in this area raises shocking problems that we, by the way, do not see, according to the 2018 budget and what you consider to be worthy of adoption. The amendments that the Jobbik faction would have tried to bring to such areas were not adopted, and would also bring about a better future for areas wiped out from such a map. This is a real shame, my fellow Members, and all I can ask is that once you have adopted the budget and the structure of the budget that we have come to know here, you will at least pay close attention to small regions, such as South Somogyi, where I came from, too. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-06-13-167	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Peter Hoppál wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-06-13-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, I cannot stand to speak without reply on the agenda, as I would respectfully ask if I had the opportunity to have a dialogue with Mr Ander Balázs on his last visit to the Ormanes. [[Ander Balázs: I live on the edge, Congressman.]] I have been in the Ormany for the last three days, and every week I am around, I know the people who live there, and I see, honourable Member, how much the situation of the Ormany has changed in the last five years. So if you're actually in the Ormany and you're not just talking about it, then you're probably talking to the people who live there. If that were the case, he would not have made the speech after the agenda he had just made. [[Ander Balázs: Did you also see the situation in Lower Saint Martin?]] Géza Kiss Kakicsi mentioned in his book Ormanság published in a huge sociology, later published in the form of a book, which was accepted by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences as a major doctoral dissertation with immediate effect, published by the author in 1937. [[16.00]] So you're talking about a problem 80 years ago, Congressman. He's not talking about last year's problems and five years ago when he says the Ormans are in a very bad situation. [[Ander Balázs intervenes.]] You said that the government put the Ormans in a very bad position. Honourable Congressman, It was not the government that did this, but the historical history you mentioned that caused the Ormany to be a disadvantaged social region, and indeed the rise and catching up of this is a need for government help. Honourable Congressman, They didn't help or even bring them into poverty before the change of regime, indeed, with the culacisation, the lack of activity and jobs, but now 20 years after the change of regime, there finally came a period of governance when people finally had a job. Go to the Ormanship, please. [[Ander Balázs: Public Works!]] I'm not asking anyone else to go to the Ormanship. Five years ago, there was 96-97 percent unemployment in the villages, and now there is 98 percent employment. People aren't hungry, people have jobs, they get up, they go to work. Do you know how much crime has been reduced on average in a village today? There were 130 crimes in a given village a year. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] There's a crime in the same village today. [[Ander Balázs: Infraction!]] If you do not see this as a result, and you say that the Ancient-Drava programme has not put in place such tourist potential with hundreds of millions of billions of dollars of funding [[Dr. István Apáti: the threshold has been raised to 50,000, Mr. Secretary of State.]] which helps the area, with 100 kilometers of cycling trails, tourist development, bicycle rental, if you say it's nothing, then you haven't been to the Ormans and you haven't spoken to the people there. [[Ander Balázs intervenes.]] This is the credibility of your speech on any matter. [[Attila Petnehazy applauds.]]
u2017-06-13-169	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-meeting speech for the developing Grand Community. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-06-13-170	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since we now know the budget figures, the figures for next year's budget, and we have roughly discussed all of this, which is part of it, I still thought that there was a topic, and this is the possibility of the Great Community's development, the future opportunity of the Grand Community, which is absolutely necessary to talk about here in this House. For this reason, my speech after the agenda is focused on precisely these issues, namely the life of the Grand Cuns and the life of the Grand Cuns, their everyday life, their potential for development and their potential for eruptions, and takes stock of the amendments I have made. I started right away, and perhaps there was a predominance of road renovation and infrastructure development in the budget amendments when I thought about the constituency itself, because the Great Kunság is in such an unfortunate situation that perhaps there is only one area of the country, I don't know, that Vas County may have areas where there is no motorway, and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County has no motorway, and therefore the fastest and most convenient approach is completely absent. It must therefore suffer a continuous competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis the rest of the different regions of the country. That is why I found it particularly important that the road conditions of a small settlement, Nagyiván, are very bad and ruined... - which leads to the settlement by road 33 and road 34, one by road 4, and the other by road 3, can finally be done, because without it, the whole settlement ends up in a sack village, a dead end. After all, the whole road on which the settlement can be reached from two directions is in such a state that in many stages it is impossible to go by 20, which is due to the wear and tear of the agricultural vehicles or the road previously built in a weaker quality, as well as the wear and tear of the surface, which has not been made once since. Thus, although it takes many billion forints overall, it would have taken at least 2.5 billion forints to start the design. The other is that people should not only be physically safe in their transport, but also have health care, everyday physical safety, and the development of the Kátai Gábor Hospital in Karcagi, which provides the entire district, had to be considered. Thus, it is absolutely necessary to mention the HUF 300 million amount, perhaps translated into everyday language, a very serious amount, which, in the language of the budget and politics, is a non-negligible, but a much smaller amount for a partial modernisation of the site in Karcag, a partial modernisation of the premises in Kunhegyes, the renewal of the diagnostic tools there, and the renewal of the diagnostic tools of the site in Kunhegyes. And what kind of banal things to spend money on, indeed, the hospital does not have a truck to solve the larger traffic between the two hospitals, and there is a need to move significant goods between the two sites, whether they are medical devices or other products. This would also be necessary for the purchase of a new vehicle. By the way, it shows the great need and the urgent need for these developments: at a time when the government, in order to reduce debt, provided hospitals with a HUF 15 billion, not a debt reduction but a development framework, this HUF 15 billion was applied for by hospitals for HUF 54 billion, so there are still development needs in the institutions that have not yet been covered or could not be covered, and this proposal would create an opportunity to do so. But we also thought about one of the cancer plagues on Highway 4, the crossroads for the gun. This is the intersection where there's an accident on a weekly basis. This is the intersection of the settlement's route to and from the Armenian road to Szolnok, towards Karcag, which is an extremely dangerous intersection. They are trying to reduce traffic there with a 70 sign, but both pedestrians and bus users are in constant danger, so from an investment of HUF 1 billion, so that the M4 will not be built that far, it would be possible to solve the crossing safely, so that there would be no permanent personal injury, neither going to work nor going to school. After all, the biggest amount could be the continuation of the M4 road, which, as we know, will not reach the Grand Cunea, it will not go into its heart, it will only stop before the Gun, and the continuation of this, the construction of this region, could help the neighbourhood to stay on its feet. So I wanted to draw the attention of this House and my fellow Members to these four budgetary amendments, so that the Grand Cunea could improve, so that the Grand Cunea could stay on its feet. I continue to recommend these excellent proposals to my fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-13-171	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 10 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 4:08 p.m.]]
