u2017-10-31-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 15th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and István Ikotity will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, asked for a speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-31-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, one fifth of women over 15 years of age, or nearly one million women, become victims of physical or sexual violence against women in their lifetime. In Hungary domestic violence requires at least one woman's life every week, and at least one child per month suffers fatal injuries. In Hungary, women suffer an average of 35 beatings before turning to help. However, most people never ask for help or can't ask for help. It should be said here that we can associate 25 undiscovered cases with one identified case. We are therefore 2017. On the 20th of the month X, we re-submit our resolution proposal that the Istanbul Convention finally be ratified by the government. There are many, many reasons for this, there have been huge scandals in recent years. Here we can talk about the child's home in Bicske, as sexual abuse occurred there, the child abuse in Szentmiklós, child abuse in Kaposvár, Gyöngyösi, and we will not forget the issue of László Kiss, and the case of László Marton, which broke out in weeks, also draws attention to the fact that the government should finally ratify this convention. Secretary of State, allow me to read details of a judicial committee meeting from the minutes. This Protocol was drawn up on 18 May 2016. Répássy, Róbert, said: "I was just watching the news, that we already said in February 2015 that the government was about to implement it, and he is about to prepare it, so that was our argument practically a year and a half ago, and I find it hard to believe that it has not been prepared since then. But that doesn't mean that if something isn't prepared, we're gonna throw that question aside. Répássy, Róbert, said this in May 2016. I'd rather abstain on my part, because the government has decided on several occasions that the Istanbul Convention should be ratified. The time for this seems to be slipping, obviously because of the unprepared or at least because of some difficulties. Here, Róbert Répássy explains that money cannot be a reason, because the government cannot continue to state that reason. I would now like to quote from a meeting on 20 February 2017, once again from Répássy Róbert in connection with the Istanbul Convention:. The draft proposal for the publication of the text of the Convention has been drawn up, the preparation of the accession will continue in the context of an administrative consultation, the draft will be published in the course of the administrative consultation and civil society organisations will have the opportunity to comment on it. Technically, the presentation of the publication was prepared by the Minister of Justice for his part. Mr. Secretary, what are we waiting for? How many more people have to die? Here in Parliament, I must say that domestic violence is not only physical, but also for financial reasons, but also sexually and verbally. We are talking not only about women, not only children, but also pensioners, disabled people and men. It turns out that Hungarian society does not have a segment where it does not happen today, either in the workplace, between friends and in the family. And, Secretary of State, I cannot miss it, since I have been given the floor before the agenda to tell you - and here I would stress - that there is also a verbal part of abuse. You have just published an Internet poster campaign, and I have to say here that in most cases, what upsets me and the public is always blaming the victims. In the Marton László case, it turns out that we almost got to the point that the victims themselves were to blame. You have put out a poster campaign where you want to draw attention to why few children are born in Hungary and have created posters where only women are blamed for the fact that few children are born in Hungary today. It says that 41 percent of the 35-44-year-olds have no children, and a woman is sitting in a swing with her back. Then it's that in the 35-44-year-olds, one and a half times more men want to have children than women. You know, it's verbal abuse when we're only blaming one group for a case. You know, Mr. Secretary, in order for a child to be born in Hungary, I still need a man and a woman, and when I look at you, I know what is missing from this. [[László Szászfalvi: This is also verbal abuse.]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary, thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-31-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-31-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In the last six to seven years, legislation has tried to prevent such problems, to punish and severely punish those who have committed violence against women or in any form of contact, obviously in the face of multiple criminal acts. On the one hand, the reason for this was that those who did so would receive their righteous punishment and, on the other hand, to deter those who would commit similar crimes. I stress that, for decades, relationship violence in Hungary has been part of public speaking as a criminal act, but no MSZP-SZDSZ government has drafted this as part of the criminal code. The Criminal Code is a half law, each of the previous governments would have had the opportunity to incorporate it into the Criminal Code, but they did not. It was the Fidesz-KDNP, which came to the government in 2010, which, on the one hand, made the various cases of sexual harassment stricter in the Criminal Code from July 2012: the sentence is 1-5 years, but if it is in some kind of dependency, it can be punished with 2-8 years imprisonment. The Fidesz-KDNP is also the most rigorous in its efforts to combat the use of criminal code tools to commit such harassment. In July 2013, the new Criminal Code, adopted by the governing parties in Parliament, came into force. This is the first Hungarian criminal law to introduce relationship violence as a stand-alone criminal case into the Hungarian legal system. A lot of people talked about a lot of things before, but they didn't do anything. Fidesz-KDNP not only spoke about the problem, but also made a proposal for a solution, submitted it to Parliament, accepted by the pro-government representatives, and rejected by opposition representatives. [[9.10]] This is far more stringent than before to punish the systematic violence against existing or former relatives, to act against dishonesty or material property, or even to prosecute anyone else not only on a private initiative but also on the basis of criminal charges. This amendment is important because it is very broad in terms of the facts of the violence in relations, and because, as you have said, the victims are very often afraid to press charges, they do not dare to launch these criminal proceedings, and we have therefore opened up this possibility to everyone else. It is important to help victims, so we have not only expanded the network of crisis management centres in Hungary, but we have also created completely new secret asylum institutions that appeared in 2012. This is precisely for the purpose of ensuring that if someone has nowhere to go to fleeing from his bullying partner, the state will provide him with the secret safe house - shelter house, called in the Western European professional language - where he can escape, where he can be safe with his child, and no need to fear his violent companion. In addition, the Code of Penalty also tightened the restraining order. In fact, among the new EFOP construction, we have launched a fairly wide-ranging asylum support project, which will allow for further expansion of the system of these types of shelters in Hungary. These are measures that could have been taken ten years ago; the money that was cheated, stolen, vanished or incorrectly used from the support of Metro 4 in the European Union could have been set up many, many of these secret shelter networks, but it was not important for socialist governments to use EU funds for this, but rather spent on the corruption of Metro 4. With the support of EMMI, a new professional protocol for the work of crisis centres was also developed in 2014 and the professional protocol for the secret safe house and halfway exit houses was developed in 2015. In 2016, we increased the support of crisis centres by 50 percent, and then we increased the secret shelters by 100 percent. It could be classified for a long time, either in 14-18 years of prevention or in other areas. Let me mention one of these things: A slogan campaign, also supported by the EMMI, is about how we try to help women and women who are in a difficult situation and become victims of relationship violence or any other form of labour. This government has also acted on this matter. And what you quoted, Congresswoman, is not a poster. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] but it is a research, and it is based on results that it presents only the results that have come out of a representative research, and there is no other intention behind it. We want to help you. [[The president's ringing again.]] We don't want to stigmatize anyone and everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-31-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I remind you that the house rules allow a five-minute time frame. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Excuse me.]] Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar, from the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Do you have all the means to retain power? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-31-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! We choose on Friday, because the national Chamber of Agriculture elections are held on 3 November. But what is the real stake in chamber elections? It is certainly the people who will be managing the professional public body organization, the Chamber, in the near future, which has a very big impact on domestic agriculture. That sounds nice, and if we were living in a normal country, we might believe that it really makes sense for members to vote, but with bureaucratic means and an anti-democratic government, you have achieved that practically only the Fidesz's home organization Magos was able to start at national level, and only he was able to set lists in the Chamber elections. Magos has been unable to perform the minimum task of appearing in the press, in Parliament or in any professional forum, as the voice of the Hungarian economy for many years. By the way, this system, which you have developed in the Chamber, is also a very good example of how you manage it, which means the Hungarian countryside, the agricultural region. Let's see what characterizes the four years that happened under the power of the low-supported NAK. I used the word "soft" because only 7 percent of the right holders voted in the previous Chamber elections, this is the national average. I don't know what's gonna happen this Friday, but I'm sure we can't expect much better, especially if we look at, say, the people who ran the chamber. A few words about former Director General Nándor Hörömpő. By the way, he is a childhood friend of Secretary Zsolt Kis, and for some time he was a business partner and roommate at the dorm. This director-general left after 8 months with eight months' severance pay, and a few weeks after he left, the bomb exploded that there were serious frauds at his previous job, MVH. By the way, he's been the second-degree defendant on this case ever since, and there's almost 80 other suspects. The criminal lawsuit is still in progress, with an illegal withdrawal of HUF 1.5 billion. By the way, Hörömpő also became head of the Cegléd District Land Office. But let's look at the current Director General, Tamás Darabos. This is President Győrffy's classmate for a change. It's a small flaw in beauty that it was sent from Eximbank just before his chamber appearance on suspicion of billions of dollars of abuse. The investigation is on this case as well. Last time I checked, he was interrogated by the Central Detective Attorney General's Office just a few weeks ago. It's funny that even before NAK's presidency, he denied that any investigation would be conducted against him. As far as I know, he wasn't charged with this lie. By the way, Darabos continued his untraceable IT purchases by his predecessor, billionaire Hörömpő. It is enough to mention, for example, a small website account of HUF 471 million. In recent news, Tamás Darabos, Director General, claimed to have received a HUF 5 million non-refundable housing grant from the Chamber a few weeks ago. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Wow!]] By the way, because of the case, the chamber manager resigned on November 1st. The commission was allegedly signed by President Balázs Győrffy himself. But it's not just the people who are insufferable, Mr. Secretary of State, for decent people around the Chamber. For example, there is the fact that NAK does not hold assemblies, so a significant part of the membership is completely excluded from the statement of opinion, as only representatives of the winning list of previous elections, i.e. the Fidesz-Magos list, can participate in the convened delegates. Obviously, they do not ask you sensitive questions, nor do they in Parliament, for example, they do not ask these suspicious IT purchases, as they are billion-dollar items. As a good student, the chamber leaders do not do what you do here in Parliament. This is the recent and present of the Chamber. They were unable to provide any meaningful assistance to social enterprises or family farms, even though they run out of more than HUF 10 billion a year. By the way, this body has made promises to the future. Let's look at some names here. President Győrffy - this will be a little complicated - is also a Chamber President, a Fidesz Member of Parliament and a Magos Vice-President, while István Jakab, President Magos, is also a Fidesz Member, and I think we will see him as President of Parliament today. Mr Zsolt Kis Miklós, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, Vice-President of NAK and Magos. By the way, we believe that this is incompatible, in itself, with the law of your own right, but obviously that doesn't bother you. This shows more than a thousand words, and it well confirms why they could not really speak in favour of family farms, when they were injured, why neither NAK nor Magos spoke in favour of Hungarian family farms and social enterprises. [[9.20]] Jobbik will put an end to the politicised chamber, we will create a real professional chamber, where we will eliminate the membership fees, and indeed we will create a body for the benefit of the stakeholders, the members. So, don't get too comfortable next week, plan for six months, tops. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-31-6	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-10-31-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I confess that I stand in front of your questions incomprehensible and disappointed, and I simply seek the meaning of the fact that, before the election of the Chamber, the party which, unfortunately - but we know for a long time that is not so - has put the interests of small farms and family farms on its flag, on the other hand, will attack the organization which has provided the most assistance in the operation of these economies in its history. Let's tell the truth, my dear fellow Member. The point is that during the nomination, the other organization, which you support, could not list in every county, and it was already behind the candidature, since the Magos and the Alliance were able to make an independent list in all 19 counties, while the other organization was able to set up only nine county lists on its own. This is a huge situation. And this is where it comes out of the bag that Jobbik is able to become a Moss spokesperson, and here in Parliament it is able to make a completely harmful speech against the body that represents the Hungarian farming community. My dear fellow Member, Magos and the organizations that joined forces can produce the widest cooperation in this election. There have never been so many organisations to stand next to any organisation representing farmers. Never so many interest representatives felt that they shared a common will to resolve this. And there's a choice, because whoever you represent can go. What I have to say is that the accusations you have listed here must be rejected in the strongest terms, since they are speculations, rumors and rumors. This is what you claim, which I most strongly reject, and I only consider to be the political action that the grapes are bitter, you are trying to incriminate those cooperations, the alliance that represents the Hungarian farming community, trying to reduce and distort all the results that this farming society has been able to produce in seven years. You said you didn't do anything to the NAK. If I say only to you, my fellow Member, that both the network of consultants and the network of village farmers, which has been set up, represent the Hungarian farming society organically; just look at the results that agriculture has produced over the last seven years, with a 55.3 percent capacity increase or a current price of 33.6, it is a huge opportunity, and we have never been able to develop such a product in such a short period of time. So I must say to you that the Hungarian economy is on the right track. All the laws, regulations we've made are in the interest of the farmers. I have to say, thanks to the Chamber's cooperation, we are building a nationwide hail damage control system. This will be done and operated by the Chamber. This is all an opportunity that allows farmers to produce safely and effectively in the coming period. I must tell you that the list of Magos and the Alliance represents the Hungarian economy from its smallest member to its greatest. And I am very sorry that Jobbik has made it to the point of speaking before the agenda - finally getting out of the bag - that it opposes the Hungarian economy and wishes to speak here specifically for the sake of a narrow social group, MOSZ. I'm really sorry we got here, but I'm glad that we finally turned out black and white to be who Jobbik represents. And all the action you've done to the farmers! So far, all the initiatives that prevented us from helping the Hungarian farming community to land, to create independent, free farmers from the Hungarian farming community, go against Jobbik's interests. Now it is obvious and understandable why Jobbik always opposes these laws, because that is not his interest, but specifically the representation of the oligarchs. Mr President, I'm sorry we got this far, but at least there's fresh water in the glass. Therefore, on 3 November, we are free to choose representatives of the oligarchs or the Hungarian farming community. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-8	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-31-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We can be part of a historic moment today, because exactly five hundred years ago, on October 31, 1517, Martin Luther nailed his 95 movements to the gates of the castle church in Wittenberg, and the Reformation began with this symbolic motion. This year we will remember this five hundred-year-old spiritual, social and cultural movement. In this festive, jubilee year, we would like to focus on the values that have brought radical changes that have affected us to this day. In addition to memory, however, the round anniversary of Jubilee also provides an opportunity to work on the future with the momentum of reformation renewal. Dear House, Reformation carries both the God-experience of renewable personal faith and the possibility of social renewal. It has had a social, political, economic and cultural impact that, to date, determines and influences our thinking, values and culture. Reformation has appeared as a renewal force transforming the entire Western civilisation, culture and society, the current consequences of which still live with us today. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The Reformation spread very quickly in Hungary already in the 16th century. In the first half of the century, and it has brought about a radical change that has played a fundamental role in the survival of Hungary, in the creation, preservation and protection of our Hungarian mother tongue, our national culture, our publishing, our school system, our national identity and our national sovereignty. Our Hungarian reformers served the spiritual renewal, the creation of a Hungarian native language culture and the survival of our Hungarians with their tireless work. Thanks to the churches of the Reformation, they have served the Hungarian nation unshakablely for five centuries, both at the right time and at the wrong time, and with their educational, social and health institutions the entire Hungarian people. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the parliamentary faction of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I welcome the intention of the government and the church not to separate 500 commemorative years of the Reformation, but to connect all Hungarians and all the forces who wish to serve the renewal of Hungary and the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin, the survival of the nation. Thus, the idea of the Transylvanian Reformed Prince Gábor Bethlen is still valid today:. All the forces that want and can be for the good of the country are not to be crushed, but to be united. Today, too, it is necessary to join forces, join forces, and protect all forces and wills in order to survive. And the basis for this survival is renewal. We need spiritual renewal in our individual and communal lives, as our Fundamental Law declares. [[9.30]] This is what we need to promote, help and serve all of us, and then we can hope and even be sure that our goals will be achieved, Hungary will be a strong and proud country, a safe home for our successors, and that the Hungarian name will again be beautiful, worthy of its great news. Dear Parliament, I wish that the half-thirtyth anniversary of the Reformation, beyond memory, would give a new impetus to the nation's renewal and the unity of all forces. Today, on the 500th anniversary, we are grateful to remember. We are grateful to remember the memories of Wittenberg, Budapest, Geneva and all of them, and for all of this, soli Deo gloria - the glory belongs to God alone. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-31-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Szászfalvi. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-31-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We are part of a generation that could have been a part of celebrating the 2000 joint anniversary of the birth of the Saviour together in 2000, the 1000th anniversary of our foundation in the same year, and now, after the 2000 and 1000 years of anniversary, the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, the anniversary of the very important moments in the history of humanity, including Hungary. There are probably few countries where there is such a high level of state representation on the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, where the state has set up a special memorial committee on the occasion of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, not instead of the work of the churches, but complementing and supporting it. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, Managing President of the Hungarian Reformation Memorial Committee, Minister Zoltán Balog, but he is a member of László Kövér, Speaker of the House, and there is also a representation at ministerial and State Secretary level in the Committee, as well as representatives of the Reformate, Evangelical, Catholic and Baptist Churches in the Reformation Memorial Committee, and as a permanent guest, the Ambassador of Switzerland, Germany and the Netherlands, as well as the representative of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, are also present in the Reformation Memorial Committee. Hungary is therefore proud of the history of the Reformation over the last 500 years, a good part of which, as the Member said, happened here in Hungary, also in Transylvania, an important part of Hungarian history throughout Hungary. When we say in the Fundamental Law that Christianity is a nation-sustaining force, we could have said that Christianity is a nation-sustaining force, then it is also evident in the establishment of similar memorial committees as ordinary government actions that the Reformation has shaped the history of Hungary as a whole, the history of Hungarians. That is why it is important to remember the events of 500 years ago. The official opening of the Jubilee Year was held at MÜPA on 6 January 2017, which was also followed by many in the public media. The exhibition IGE-IDŐK has been visible in the Hungarian National Museum for a relatively longer period, which can be visited for about a long week free of charge, with extended opening hours on weekends. We encourage everyone to go and see this is a very large Reformation Exhibition. An international round table discussion with the title "Politicals and Creeds" was also carried out on 26 April in memory of the Reformation. Protestant politicians sought the answer to what their Protestant faith had given them and what Protestantism today gives in their own country, in Europe and in the world. In the summer, August, Hungarian days were held in Wittenberg, including Mátyás Dévai Bíró, the commemorative plaque inauguration of the Hungarian Luthers, László Fassang's organ concert at the Wittenberg city church, as well as various state and church events on the spot. On 5 October, a Reformation Memorial meeting took place in Parliament's Upper House Hall with the participation of scientists, artists and public figures. Today a grandiose event will take place in the Papp László Sport Arena, where the entire arena, representing Protestant churches, remembers the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. On 19 December, as a closing event, there will be a special concert at the Academy of Music. It is important that there are public installations in the city centre with the title of.Reformáció 500. On the stone of 95 pieces of Kálvin tér there are a pair of quotes, half a millennium ago, and the thoughts of today's public thinkers and culture-makers engraved on the stones. This brings these thoughts together over 500 years. A Reformation Memorial Park was established on the side of the Castle, which was also inaugurated during spring-summer. Three huge series of concerts will be launched entitled Music Creeds, also in the framework of the Reformation Memorial Year; and the world-famous choir of Tamás Church in Leipzig visited Hungary, in Budapest, Debrecen, Pécs, and a concert titled Messiah.ma, which was also presented in the MÜPA on the occasion of the 500th anniversary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-31-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. István Ikotity, on behalf of the Group of the May Other Politics, also applied for a pre-meeting speech on why does the State destroy the vine producers in Tokaj-hegyalja? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2017-10-31-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As I pointed out in my speech, in our historic wine region at the World Heritage Site, small producers are threatened with destruction by the state-owned Grand Tokaj Zrt. I'm sorry about that. Based on the governance of the last few years, it is possible that small producers still producing grapes in Tokaj-Hegyalja will be destroyed, and most of the area will fall into the hands of an oligarch. However, before I go to the details of the situation, let me recall what came to my mind first of all about the problems of vine production in Tokaj. In one word, this is nothing more than corruption. Since the first Orbán government, the Prime Minister has shown great interest in agriculture in general and in wine growing in Tokaj-Hegyalja in particular. I think everyone remembers the statements published in 2005 on the State winery in Tokaj-Hegyalja in accordance with a protocol of 4 June 2001. According to the minutes, the Prime Minister spoke about state aid and privatisation, saying, I quote: "Let's not win as much as we have asked, although we get the most. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I recalled this old case, but it is a memorable one, because the gentleman who was referred to by the media as the Prime Minister's stooge has recently expanded considerably in the same area that the Prime Minister has spoken about. Meanwhile, the state company that has so far purchased their vineyards from small family farmers in the area seems to be trying to destroy these small owners. It arises how Lőrinc Mészáros's acquisition intentions relate to the serious harvest problems that the largest winery in the wine region, the state-owned Grand Tokaj Zrt. caused by Tokaj-Hegyalin. It is known that Lőrinc Mészáros has recently established a significant winery empire in Tokaj. A total of 2.8 billion forints of Ripper's interest will create new plants with public money near his own wineries. We are therefore faced with a well-thought-out business strategy, which will have processing capacity and, in fact, lacks its own vineyards. However, they are still in the hands of over a thousand Tokaj-hegyalja small farmers. But for how long? In Zemplén there are centuries of vintage tradition. For generations, the people of the mountain have handed over this knowledge that has made the Tokaji world-famous. After the change of regime, the Hungarian State created the Tokaj Trading House to buy the fruit from the producers and sell the wine made from it. In 2017, Zrt. did not enter into a purchase contract with the producers, unlike the previous years. On 19 September 2017, the first notifications to producers were made that they could expect the harvest to be bought. [[9.40]] In 2016, a contract was concluded with 1270 producers in 2017, i.e. only around a thousand producers were notified this year. Many producers with a single vineyard area have not been notified. For nearly 270 producers, Grand Tokaj Zrt. it did not provide any justification for the non-subsidisation of the offer. This happens in an excellent vintage year. Due to significant media publicity, Grand Tokaj Zrt. Finally, all producers were informed of their intention to buy and were sold in the Zemplén PGI category for 80 HUF. To date, however, producers do not have a valid contract. During this year's harvest, farmers have been offered a purchase price of HUF 10. This situation is only good for insecure producers to sell their small vineyards cheaply and to acquire them in various investor circles. One or another of the vulnerable small producers is already forced to reflect on the sale of its territory, in the absence of major capital reserves. The people of Zemplén have been working overpoweringly throughout the year to cultivate their vineyards. A significant amount is paid year after year for the mechanical work of the vineyard, and families also do the manual work in the vineyards with honor. The people who live there, who, despite the hardships of recent years, still stick to their grapes, deserve greater respect. They expect their grapes not to be sold at a price. My question is why the state doesn't provide Tokaj wine and world-famous Hungaricum aszú raw material for Tokaj [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a fair buy-in condition. Why didn't you sign a contract with them? What's your role in this? [[The president's ringing again.]] Butcher Lawrence? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-10-31-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer.
u2017-10-31-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Speaking of Cyrano, you could have said it better, little knight, but allow me to answer what you have said. You may not remember what many of us here do, because during left-wing governance, during these governments, the state-owned Tokaj company was destroyed, it served as a paying place for socialist governments. They destroyed a Hungarian product with centuries of tradition and foreign markets. I am sure that you do not dispute the importance of regaining and preserving the reputation of the centuries-old Tokaj wine. The second Orbán government made the necessary decisions to save the company: it transformed management; it modernised the operating structure; it renewed the technological infrastructure and rethought its role in the market. As a result, the company is currently operating successfully and has good partnerships. The State and Grand Tokaj Zrt. it does not destroy the vine producers against your claim. To select the contractual partners, Grand Tokaj Zrt. operates a documented plantation control system on a purely vineyard professional basis. From 2013 the inspectors shall inspect the plantations of the former partners three to four times a year and maintain personal contacts with the producers. This represents nearly 1,200 small farmers' 3700 parcels on about a thousand hectares. So much for an oligarch or two. Based on the site survey, evaluation of the state of the plantations and the experience of the inspector, Grand Tokaj Zrt was selected in 2017 as well as in the 2016 contract period. producers and parcels which can provide grape material with the required parameters. The Grand Tokaj aims to ensure that the products of the Tokaj wine region reach as many domestic and foreign consumers as possible. For the planned expansion of the market, Zrt. rely on any producer partner with whom it is able and willing to provide the appropriate grape material. It is in the interest of the more than one thousand cooperating producers who have observed the contractual conditions in the previous years and continue to produce grapes in the quality necessary for the production of marketable Tokaj wine. The interests of these producers are put at risk if they remain in this contractual partnership with those who have an incomplete, ageless or unorganised plantation, do not comply with production standards, do not implement the necessary plant health protection or do not comply with the contractual conditions. These producers, these parcels, fell out of the contract in 2017. Differentiated buying-in prices are applied according to the quality objectives set by the company, depending on the degree of must and the state of health of the grapes. The buying-in prices announced in the past have exceeded and are now higher than the average buying-in prices of the wine region in all categories. In 2016, the average buying-in price without aszúm was HUF 134 per kilogram, which provided a fair profit to the producers of high quality grapes. This is expected to continue this year. For years, the company has been working with producers, and therefore, in setting buying-in prices, in addition to the trends in the wine market, it also takes into account the recommendation of the National Council of the Mountains. In 2017, the total value of the grapes planned to be purchased exceeds the purchase value of the previous year by 10 percent, because they increased to the raw material of the more sellable, late harvest szamorodni. By the way, I would like to note that, according to the government's decision in recent weeks, the company is planning a purchase for the quantity that is not included in the company's processing system and which does not contain its storage capacity. So I am convinced that in 2017 the fate of all wine-growing farmers will be settled in Tokaj-Hegyalya. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-31-16	Thank you very much, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Bóna, Member of the Fidesz Group, with the title "500" has also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-31-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have all certainly experienced, in recent months a particular emphasis has been placed on the long-term and complex process called Reformation, given that its defining motive was just today 500 years ago. Thinking of the undisputed importance and achievements of the Reformation, we have reason to wonder whether Martin Luther was aware that he was not only risking the development of his own life by publishing his movements, but he is launching an avalanche that will bring about a radical change in world history and human thinking. In light of Luther's life and work, we can assume that his actions were motivated rather by inner conviction and dedication than by a desire to take advantage of fear of the future or even its potential. It is important to stress that Martin Luther did not want to be seen as an innovator or a revolutionary. His most important purpose was to show effectively how different the church and its people were from the sure foundation laid by God's son, Jesus Christ, a millennium and a half earlier. However, this effort to look back and turn back has given a tremendous impetus to the world's development. I can say from conviction that the Reformation not only fundamentally changed people and societies, but also made them better. In view of the decisive power of the Reformation, the question of what the Reformation has given to the individual, the Christian religion, the societies based on Christian values, and ultimately the whole world is highly topical on this day. Of course, there is no objective answer to this question, since the impact of the Reformation appears in a different way in our lives depending on the moment of time, the individual and the system of considerations. However, from the perspective of 500 years, it is important to find answers to the question that are objectively capable of showing the significance of the Reformation. From a theological and religious point of view, the greatest objective of the Reformation was to restore direct belief in God. [[9.50]] It can be said that this effort and many struggles around the world have brought huge changes to people by systematically removing obstacles between God and humans over the centuries. The Reformation, as its name says, has successfully turned the face and soul of society back to the God who turned to man. As a direct consequence of people being able to regain direct contact with God, the way opened up before reforming their relationships with themselves and their fellow humans. Thanks to the Lord of history, this renewal on old foundations did not remain among the temple walls, but with a revolutionary impetus it developed its beneficial and inspiring influence in arts, science, cultures and, not least, in the formation and strengthening of national identities. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to celebrate the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, it is not enough to recall the most important events of the last half century, and to pay tribute and recognition to the memory of the dominant personalities. For the blessings of the Reformation, we must give thanks and remain worthy of them, so that we must do our best to reform ourselves and our nation. In recent years, it has become clear that our national survival has not only been threatened by our own miscarriage and indifference, but also by global processes and aspirations behind them, and it is therefore important that we draw strength from Luther's example of the challenges ahead, who was convinced that if God is with us, who is against us. It can be a reason for pride, joy and gratitude that Hungary has a leadership that has spent considerable energy and resources to celebrate the Reformation as widely and as high as possible. Thank you to all those who have contributed to this in any way. Soli Deo Gloria - God alone has the glory! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Bóna. On behalf of the government, Bence Rétvári wishes [[Lajos Korózs: That was very nice!]] to tell you the idea of government. [[Lajos Korózs: For a man with fidesz, it was very nice. László Szász.Falvi: You are very cynical. You don't have to be cynical. The president's ringing the bell.]] Please, my fellow Member, have more patience to listen to the speeches, and we will also be very patient with the speeches of the socialist Members. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-31-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You yourself referred to the Reformation Memorial Committee at the end of your speech, which set several priorities for this year. The priority is to give the young people the richness of the Reformation, the message and the effect of the Reformation to this day; to show the importance of Protestantism to the whole society in history; to help the churches take a joint, credible stand and witness - a great many eco-menic events will also take place in the commemoration of the Reformation -; by presenting Protestant ethics, help to renew themselves in the profession, in the family and in economic life; and to help the faith that is a strong force for the entire Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, and, within that, Protestantism, to be known to everyone. These were the main objectives. There have been numerous applications for this every year, as there have been preparations here since 2015: photo contest, fine art competition, slogan contest, program competition for both church-law persons, non-church-law persons, within borders, across borders, conference-organization proposals, research, book publishing or contemporary creative proposals, the results of which have already been produced and presented in the previous years. It is also important to mention the national Reformation cultural competition, where 1,500 students participated with 300 teams out of 130 schools. The moving Reformation Exhibition has started, which is really moving, because you can see it in an articulated bus, so you can visit the country. We hope that you can reach as many settlements as possible. A Protestant school-historic travelling exhibition was also held, which started last autumn with the title Hiding Treasures. Each school can present the outstanding events of its institution, renowned students, their way of life, their Protestant values. There are village-walking theatres, there are Reformation 500 film days, which were realized at the Uránia National Film Theatre, and has put films on the agenda that draw attention to events 500 years ago. Because what happened 500 years ago really became a history creator, causing global change, both worldwide and in Hungary. For the Hungarian community, it has helped to enrich Hungarian language and Hungarian culture in many cases. Luther's movements have influenced both everyday life and farming, family life, community life, work, profession and culture in the last 500 years. We probably couldn't imagine the world what it would be like if that hadn't happened. The translations of the Scriptures appeared in Hungary, which could not only deepen the faith, but also boosted the Hungarian printing industry, helped to unify spelling in Hungary. Colleagues were created, the most famous of which were Debrecen, Sárospataki, and the papal, and they also flourished as a spiritual center for culture. In addition to theology, the work of the Reformers is also fully tangible in the fields of culture, politics, economy, music and law, especially because during the Turkish reign, Hungarian-language worships, Hungarian-language Bible translations were even more important, and they played an important role in the survival of the language and thus the Hungarian nation, both with printers and schools. Obviously, the last 500 years have not been free from religious disputes, wars, serious grievances caused by Catholics and Protestants alike, but I believe that in recent years and decades there have been countless gestures that require us to become better in the spirit of mutual apology. I can only give you the example of my high school Bible teacher, who himself demonstrated to us that there is a Catholic Church, there are Protestant churches, and if we all approach the Church of Christ, sooner or later the difference between churches will be eliminated, and the world will be better. Pope Francis spoke of nothing other than common renewal; it is no longer about the search for separation or differences, but about how each church can have a glow that can convey both the gospel and the gospel and serve our country. This joint renewal, this fresh start, the return to roots again and again, is what I think Protestants and Catholics alike are one of the important messages of this Jubilee Year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. Presentation submitted by Christian Democrats Péter Harrach, István Hollik and László Szászfalvi T/18004. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that according to the House Rules adopted, a total of 20 minutes for opening speech and closing speech, 10 minutes for the Government representative's statement, 6 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 minutes for the speakers of the political groups, 3 minutes for the speech of the independent representatives. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, the author of the item on the agenda. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total time frame of 20 minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting a possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-31-21	Mr President, Dear House, The amendment and extension of the eviction moratorium will protect families in distress by two and a half months. The implementation process affects thousands of families, but I must add that this is largely due to public utility charges, and the amendment itself, which prevents eviction, is a symptomatic treatment, but a radical solution is needed after the expiry of the procedure for those who have a serious problem as they may lose their home. [[10.00]] If allowed, lending should usually be given as an introduction to one or two ideas. Credit is necessary and, of course, the mortgage institution must be preserved in order for banks to lend. However, we know what problems the large number of foreign exchange credentials have posed for families, and there are families that are indestructible for other reasons. I believe that the truth is that the loan must be repaid, does not mean that the State should not provide assistance to those in distress, and that banks should also claim the loan back under a fair procedure. If you'll allow me, I'll tell you a few more measures that the state has taken in the interests of the families in debt. The settlement of the situation of foreign exchange lenders started with the end-payment, which was the solution to 170,000 contracts. Then came the asset management facility, which in 35,000 cases provided housing aid to 150,000 people, as they could remain in their homes as tenants. Next came the exchange barrier, which was a solution for 172 thousand contracting parties. We know that not only in the context of the purchase of housing, but also in the case of all foreign currency loans, it represents almost two million items, of which the borrowing for housing was roughly one million. The next major measure was the accountability of the banks, as we know that in the course of the unfair procedure the debtors had to pay back a debt that had already exceeded their strength, and we also know that the banks were forced to return HUF 1000 billion to the debtors. Then came the institution of the private bankrupt, which, according to the data provided to us at the moment, was a solution for 1056 families. This affected 2,700 people. This institution is a legal institution in the countries close to us and far away, but we need to see that there are different results in countries. Some have used only a few, a few hundred, but some have thousands. Hungary is somewhere in the middle field on this issue. Undoubtedly, the private failure or, as we call it, we must also make changes to the institution of family bankruptcy protection, and we will consider this together with a general repayment facilitation. And if I may, I would also like to say a few words about KDNP's proposals so far, as regards implementation. In 2013, we initiated the amendment of the law on judicial enforcement for the first time. That was the result, some of them allowed to be listed. The judicial enforcement investigation system has been renewed, the irregular incassions have been terminated and the recovery commission and the chargeable cost margin of the executives were subsequently reduced in the IM Regulation. This has eased the situation of debtors. Government measures have also been taken to control enforcement activities. The organisation itself has been transformed, the appointment of the executive is already for a limited period of seven years, and until 22 we have also obliged the executives to acquire legal qualifications. This will make the process of implementation more transparent and orderly. In 2017, we submitted another proposal for the law on judicial enforcement, and this was of great importance, as it also provided protection to debtors, the debtors in the final situation. From now on, real estate cannot be sold under value, and this can only happen if the two parties concerned are the same. We also have data on the outcome of this amendment. 1014 properties were sold at court auction, and 50 percent of them were valued, 100 percent of them, instead of 70 percent so far; the other 50 percent were sold at an average of 135 percent above the starting price, i.e. the value. In doing so, we have achieved that they can still recover a significant debt on the debtor for the property being auctioned, but there is still work to be done here, because in the future, I feel that this problem must also be solved, and that is what we have in mind for the final solution. This amendment, which we have just tabled, as I have said, extends the eviction ban by two and a half months. This protects families not only in the coldest winter months, but also in the autumn cold weather, against eviction of families in an indestructible situation. But again, this is not a definitive solution to the situation of a family of hundreds of thousands, which, after the eviction moratorium, we obviously need to resolve in the next parliamentary term with a clear, one-off and radical solution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-31-22	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Péter Harrach, for his speech. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, you will have 11 minutes and 10 seconds to say the closing word. I am now asking whether, on behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-10-31-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposal before us contains virtually a debt relief, since it does not put residents in a position during winter to suddenly solve their housing problems. We certainly support this idea on the part of the government, and I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Harrach, for also setting out the way forward, what Parliament and the government have done to ensure that these crises are as little as possible, and what means are available to prevent those who are in such a situation from being irreversibly endangered by their housing and their existence. We need all these initiatives, and I am asking my fellow Members in each of the parliamentary groups to support this initiative. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-31-24	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik, rapporteur of the committee. [[10.10]]
u2017-10-31-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, yesterday the Legislative Committee discussed the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement. a bill amending the law necessary for the renewal of the eviction moratorium, which was supported by 21 votes in favour of the members of the Legislative Committee, with a unanimous decision, without debate. Ladies and gentlemen, In the expozee, Mr Péter Harrach said the way to this point and drew attention to the importance of the proposal before us. I trust we can count on your support. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-26	Thank you very much, Congressman Hollik. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 3 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-10-31-27	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we will support Mr Harrach's motion for a vote, but I would like to say a few unscrupulous sentences on this matter. We see that this is only a continuation of the solution to the problem. It is undisputed that the problem families who are waiting for eviction will be in a more favourable position by bringing it forward by 15 days and extending it for a month. [[Péter Harrach: Two.]] the eviction moratorium. Because, as you said, instead of 1 December each year, on 15 November or 30 April instead of 1 March [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: It's two and a half months!]] This period will be protected from eviction. At the same time, it seems to me that further measures should or should be taken to remedy the problems of families in debt. As far as we know, there are still 15,000 families waiting to be evicted. This is a terrible number, and as we recall the recently published statistics of the MNB, it turns out that there are some 140,000 troubled families in Hungary today where the sword of the Damocles is hanging over their heads. The purpose of the enforcement procedure, we all know, is that the applicant for enforcement can satisfy his legitimate claim from the debtor's assets. Obviously, when a person applies for credit, this loan must be repaid, there can be no question. At the same time, humanity, in my opinion, requires, and it is also important for society that debtors have the opportunity to break out of the debt trap. On the other hand, it seems that the government has failed completely. He mentioned it, my fellow Member, and I, too, would like to refer to the private institution of bankruptcy, which is completely out of order. Mr. Congressman has referred to the fact that Hungary is located in the middlefield in countries where there is a private bankrupt institution or a self-succeed institution, no matter what we call it. In my opinion, this is a complete failure, a complete failure of the private institution. At the time when the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party presented the law, we said and spoke on this matter several times, we also said at the committee meeting, here in plenary, what other passages should be put into the existing law in order to effectively represent the interests of these troubled families. Unfortunately, this has not been incorporated into the law, and it is apparent that this institutionalized form is hardly being used. In addition, my fellow Member mentioned the National Asset Manager. At the time when this legislation was born, I first called the National Asset Manager such a fictitious institution, because for months it was not possible to know whether it existed or not, there was only a telephone number given that someone had recorded, but was never willing to answer any of the answers, and they could not give any meaningful answers to the questions asked. Congressman, you know very well that there are currently 28,000 families to whom the National Asset Manager has provided some assistance, at least on the Asset Manager's website. The quota you have is 35,000 people. Let us not argue that it solves the problem of 35,000 people, because against 35,000, there are 140,000, and not the 15,000 family to be evicted! The reason why the distance is so great is 35,000 - I stress, so far 28,000 families have been quasi-saved; moreover, I am telling you that they have not saved anyone in the world, because those who remain as tenants in the apartments owned by the National Asset Manager have the same problem, because they cannot pay the reduced repayment. So even though their repayments were reduced, they couldn't pay this lower amount, because these families have such problems. So the $35,000 is $140,000. The other issue, which I would like to mention, is that the private bankrupt institution of KDNP, which was developed and adopted by the Parliament, as I said, provides very little assistance. It is not surprising that under such conditions, as I said, they hardly use the private institution. I'd like to call here the opinion of a fellow Member. When this motion came before Parliament, Miklós Soltész, then State Secretary, said that since 2010, decisive and concrete steps have been taken to respond to the debt trap involving some 1.3 million families. Among these, he mentioned the setting up of the National Asset Manager, the end-payment, the introduction of the exchange rate barrier, the forinting, the setting up of the Ocsai residential park - this is the joke itself - the abolition of foreign currency-based loans and family bankruptcy protection. I put in parentheses that this is the joke itself. Compared to that, I think it's worth telling you that the private institution is bankruptcy. The semi-empty housing park in Ocsa is a spectacular government failure, the incredibly high-priced, unused homes symbolize the housing and social policy of this government, and the final repayment - sorry, fellow Members - helped those who had significant financial resources in the first place. After the final repayment operation, it's September 2011, the Swiss franc's exchange rate just really broke loose. So it can be said that the people who were really trapped in debt were pushed even further with this operation. Exchange rate changes can also be monitored on the Internet. And the forint was carried out at an extremely high rate of 256 HUF, while - just for the record - in 2010, I think we remember it, the Swiss franc's exchange rate was between 180 and 190 HUF. Summa summarum, the MSZP supports any proposal to protect people in debt traps. Furthermore, the MSZP continues to take the view that the protection of debtors and the soothing settlement of their situation can be achieved by amending the implementing rules, but rather by making the private institution of bankruptcy operational. In this respect, the MSZP submitted a fully-developed bill, which, unfortunately, Fidesz refused to support, but even prevented its debate in Parliament; the law which was inoperable, which ultimately adopted on the proposal of the KDNP, even though it was no more than a mere misrepresentation. If Fidesz-KDNP really wants to help Hungarians who are trapped in a debt trap, they should be willing, in addition to correcting the implementing rules, to review the rules of private bankruptcy in substance and to solve the problems that still exist for foreign exchange creditors. Finally, I would like to emphasise that we will support the extension of the eviction moratorium, despite our reservations. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-31-28	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I now give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-10-31-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, on the part of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we support the proposal because we submitted it ourselves. [[10.20]] On the opposition side, we are often accused of social insensitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I could list the measures taken in the last seven years by the government and the governing parties in order to help Hungarian families and help families in difficult situations. Such is the complete transformation of the family support system, such as the introduction and extension of free children's meals, such as the transformation of the children's system, such as the introduction of a free textbook supply. I can also mention the family home creation discount, which helped Hungarian families and those in need. I think that this line includes the proposal that is being discussed and to be negotiated: the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement. a bill amending the law, which actually means extending and extending the moratorium on eviction. Unlike my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, I would like to make it clear that we are pushing this particular eviction moratorium not for a month but for two and a half months by implementing this proposal. Mr Fraction Manager has already mentioned a number of initiatives adopted by the government and Parliament on the initiative of the KDNP in the last year. I would also like to talk about these in a few sentences, as we had already successfully initiated the amendment of the implementing law in 2013, and there have been significant changes to this amendment, since we have renewed the judicial enforcement investigation system, and we have extended the obligation to declare property to the bailiffs. This law has dealt with the abolition of irregular inks, extended the scope of the use of vehicles seized during the implementation, and, following the adoption of the law, reduced the recovery commission of the enforcers and the chargeable price limit. I believe that this was a very, very important law, because, perhaps, with many of my fellow Members, there have been numerous complaints about the implementation processes, the procedures of the executives themselves, and I think that this has been a major turnaround in the process of implementation and its practical measures. The government has also taken a number of measures to control enforcement activities. Our aim was, too, to strengthen public confidence in executive activity. As a first step, the Government has installed office inspection tasks in connection with the control of independent court executioners at the Justice Office. The Justice Office, as a public body separated from the enforcement body, was able to objectively assess any deficiencies in the enforcement operation. On this basis, the new system of rules for examining enforcement activities and for supervising complaints has been able to fulfil its function. In the framework of the organizational reform of judicial enforcement, the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court of Justice ended on 31 August 2015 and its general successor was the Hungarian Faculty of Executives of the Court. The faculty was founded on 1 September 2015 and the members of the faculty were elected by 30 September on the basis of the interim electoral rules approved by the Minister. The main change in executive status compared to the previous regulation is that the appointment of executives will be for seven years in the future, and executives who want to remain executives again after the end of the period can receive this appointment by tender again. In order to become a legal profession, the executive must have a legal qualification by 2022. Taking into account the principle of graduality, there is no need to obtain legal qualifications for executives who reach 65 years of retirement in the next seven years. In any case, it is an important process, we have introduced very important changes through this law, and perhaps the implementation process and public confidence in executives could be strengthened as a result. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2017, KDNP submitted twice a proposal to amend the law on judicial enforcement, which was already mentioned. On 7 March the Parliament adopted the first amendment by a clear majority. During the enforcement procedure, the sale is required by this law to ensure that the assets seized, in particular residential immovable property, are sold at a higher price, thereby ensuring that residential property is sold at least in value and that outstanding claims can be repaid as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us, which specifically refers to the extension of the eviction moratorium, is once again integrated in this process and proves once again that we cannot be accused of any social insensitiveness. We believe that this bill, this measure, will help those who are in a vulnerable position to be put in a vulnerable position. It is possible to say this as a symptomatic treatment, but we believe that it does help thousands of people, thousands of families, at least in this vulnerable situation, to have more opportunities to find a solution. We therefore respectfully ask all our fellow Members, all the factions, to support this proposed amendment. I could also mention the measures we have taken to save foreign exchange credentials, and we have managed to help hundreds of thousands of families: end-payment, National Asset Manager, exchange rate barrier, private failure institution. The institution of the private bankruptcy can, of course, be whipped, but we think that we can talk about the introduction of a new and important legal institution in Hungary, which the Korózs Lajoss could have done under their own governance, as they could have done during their own governance, to help foreign exchange lenders. They could have extended the eviction moratorium, which they did not; in 2010 we had to get away with it immediately. After all, our colleague Lajos Korózs can say many things, but when they governed, they did not use any of these tools, and they did not in any way help vulnerable families, vulnerable people. Compared to this, I think that all the measures listed here support the fact that over the last seven years we have tried to help the fallen, the vulnerable, and even the accountability of the banks, if I take it here, with which the debtors had to transfer HUF 1000 billion back from the banks, then I think that these measures have, after all, been a great help to the Hungarian families. Of course, KDNP supports this bill, and we ask the other factions to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-30	Thank you very much, Congressman László Szászfalvi. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa on behalf of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-31-31	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to point out that Jobbik supports the extension of the eviction moratorium in any way, so there should be no debate between us. At the same time, I am amazed by the insolence of my fellow members in favour of government with regard to the justification. It's a cowardly government, and it's a far-reaching cowardly proposal. [[10.30]] The fact that you're trying to idealize this is pretty amazing. Not only is the government a coward because it gives our faction a total of ten minutes to justify or try to extend this proposal in any direction, but also because it demonstrates its own social sensitivity, while in recent years, my fellow Member of Szászfalvi, every year we have asked for the extension of the eviction moratorium to be announced earlier. Where were you? ! They sat on the government benches as quietly as they did most of the time by a two-thirds majority, and they didn't want to extend the moratorium, you were socially insensitive. You have contributed to the eviction of hundreds of families. At least don't pretend. The fact is that, every year, our proposals to extend the eviction moratorium have been rejected, and the solution to the problem is now being pushed away. What is the second factor of cowardice is that the author stands up and talks about how after the elections they will come up with a bold and radical one-way proposal. Well, why not now? Why don't you put this very brave proposal on the table like a man now, if you really want to settle the situation of the credit-damaged? I'll tell you what that would mean. Damages must be caused to the commercial banks concerned, yes. Although these are not grievances, as I understand it, but take back the owners' money in terms of restoring the truth, we take back the original owner's money from those who, thanks to the government's legalized solutions - and here, in terms of gratitude, quote - have taken away these funds, and are unduly. But just because you're pushing the order after the election, it's still over 140,000 - it's said correctly - the number of people in acute danger and the size of ten thousand who are under threat of eviction. I'll tell you what's real in my script, and then you can disprove or react to it. The government simply doesn't dare to go against the Banking League before the elections, dare to go against the relevant commercial banks, because it has made a deal with them, just as they made a deal with the EBRD in February 2015, and you announced it yourself, so I didn't make it up. The fact is that they have made commitments that do not cause any financial damage to the banks concerned in order to make the victims easier. Now, that's why you want to hover a vague, completely unknown plan after the election, because you don't have the guts to act like a man and start doing this, and we'd support you. Without a word, we'd be in the line of people who would give their support to the government even if they took our own proposals and submitted them under their own names. I'm still going to vote yes on these. I just want them to do it. We look forward to a radical intervention later, but I think that after the elections, the efficiency of this will be significantly lower than it could be right now. I beg you, too, don't refer to your private failure. It can be interpreted as practically one of the disasters of Hungarian legislation. That little over a thousand contracts on the part of people in distress, that's a recipe for bankruptcy. In fact, tens of thousands of Hungarians could have been helped here. If you look at the so-called Western examples you refer to, there are not thousands of clients from each country, and not just because the population is higher. If they look at it in proportion, they will still see that they have been able to provide meaningful help with this solution, without being enslaved. As I suggested, we proposed to include walk away-type solutions, so by extending the right to walk away, after five years, it would be necessary to exempt debtors from the largely unjustified mass of debt that has been broken by your faulty legislation. I mean, right now, in the weeks, we're dealing with cases where out of a $5 million loan, a claim of $33 million was made. There's no KDNP here who can explain to me how 5 million becomes 33. This has occurred within the implementation system that you regulate. In your system, two executives, based on the same amount of debt, claim the same thing: 33 out of 5 million. But in the case of the next eviction, where they wish to remove a hero from their apartment, I also sent it to you, the Minister, who was tasked by Viktor Orbán, the address, the contacts, everything else to look into this particular case, because we found irregularities that call for intervention. As far as I know, your intervention didn't happen in this case. So I wish you a little courage to dare go against this system, because it's expanding beyond itself. They're committing a mass of irregularities. I have to say that if you want to find a perfectly good solution, it has been on the table since 2012, Jobbik has submitted: these so-called loans must be forinted at the rate on the day of admission. You refer to the fact that you are forinted at the market rate, i.e. at a market rate of HUF 256 instead of HUF 155-160. Their justification usually goes in two directions. One is that the exchange rate was good, but later the exchange rate became even higher, as if this had any significance from the point of view of justice, as it would be fair to redeem them at 155 forints, regardless of the fact that the situation became even worse than the bad one. And their other justification is that the Curia has given you some kind of guidance, which is a net lie. In the Curia's decisions, there was no mention of the introduction of a market rate. So I wish you to accept the opposition remedial proposals that will help you, by the way, and now try to put this situation in order before the elections, because credit victims cannot wait another six months. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-31-32	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, it may be Other Politics. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2017-10-31-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill before us is the best example of government cynicism less than six months before the elections. During last week, KDNP representatives submitted a bill to extend the eviction moratorium, and this week the Parliament will discuss this in an exceptional procedure. This is cynical because we launched an extraordinary parliamentary day in the summer, precisely on this issue. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Initiated in the CEU case!]] 'Cause I didn't put up with that question. You did not attend this meeting, and you are now presenting a proposal as a matter of urgency. I must also draw the KDNP representatives and the government's attention that this is not a solution to push the moratorium from 1 March to 30 April. This is all about the government putting the sensitive issue after the elections. You know very well that this is a huge problem, and the foreign exchange credit problem is ticking like a ticking bomb. As much as they emphasize that you have succeeded, you have not solved the problem of the victims. Firstly, they were not forinted at the admission rate, even though the sources of commercial banks would have provided cover for a fair conversion. [[Noise. Péter Harrach, László Szászfalvi and Mátyás Firtl are talking.]] Mr President, with poor KDNP Members to whom I would like to speak, I cannot speak, all three who are present in this Chamber are talking to someone else. Thus, the commercial banks have made a huge extra profit on each loan, and they also have a lot of reserves. The borrower has increased several times, demanding double or triple amounts from debtors now that they have actually paid their loans with interest. Instead of fair forinting, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank created foundations and regrouped the property there. You've lost your public money in the forint, at least that's how you put it. They also provided an opportunity for early repayment, but it also benefited only the wealthy, by doing so only the rich and the people close to the government, and those who had the opportunity to replace it. Is that what you mean by solving the foreign exchange credit problem, to help loyal people? The others don't matter? In addition, it should be stressed that the current banking supervision did not do its job and did not indicate to the customers the risk of the construction. They needed to know that, and yet they allowed the product to spread. If that hadn't happened, we wouldn't have kept tens of thousands on the street. György Wellmann, head of the Curia's Civic College, specifically apologized to the Banking Association for giving the right to the foreign exchange people. This shows very well whose interests the Curia represents and whose side it is on. Once again, the responsibility of the government comes to the fore, because this cannot happen in an independent court. Péter Darák was asked to proceed, of course that did not happen. On the basis of a report by lawyers and victims, this resolution is also reflected in the practice of lower courts. It's the best place to show that there's no judicial independence. [[10.40]] Many have left and left the country to pay the loans, which also means that domestic companies cannot find enough workers. Most of those who left were not in their right mind to leave, but they were faced with an emergency situation, because they could not solve this from Hungarian wages; this also results in a shortage of domestic labour. Auctions are currently not stopped, they are ongoing, resulting in eviction. As early as the summer, LMP presented a bill that affects many difficult borrowers in Hungary. This proposal, contrary to your proposal, is aimed not only at suspending evictions for the winter period, but also at halting such acts until a foreign currency authentic law is adopted that takes into account the outcome of the decision-making procedures in the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is sad that in the summer, when we initiated the resolution of the case in the framework of an extraordinary parliamentary session, where this was supported by the opposition, you did not attend the meeting, and now you are submitting a proposal to extend the moratorium. This issue is a matter of parties, in which the government would have a dog's duty to provide real help, instead of pushing out the moratorium for campaign purposes after the election, and then sweeping the problem under the carpet again. The situation of foreign exchange lending has now drifted to the point that tens of thousands of Hungarians are on the street due to invalid foreign exchange contracts. Implementation in force for invalid contracts could not continue, but this is what is happening in Hungary, led by today's Fidesz-KDNP government. The Fidesz-KDNP government does not care about Hungarian voters, the Fidesz-KDNP government does not care about the application of EU consumer protection rules for the protection of citizens in Hungary. When we presented our original proposal, we said that this law should be born after a decision has been taken in the preliminary ruling procedure in the Hungarian case, but we would now add that it is necessary to take into account the aspects of the Romanian case, which are C-186/16. These are related to the examination of the recently born foreign exchange authentic information obligation. The Hungarian case, which is C-51/17. It runs on exchange rate risk, so the law has to respond to that. What we still need to look at is how the Hungarian courts deal with the risk of exchange rates, the court has not yet looked at the advantage of the position of the two parties. It is incomprehensible why the Hungarian Government does not support the proposal when there is conflicting cooperation in the matter. In this case, too, the Curia should take a decision on equality of law that the Hungarian courts must examine whether there was a significant imbalance between the parties at the time of the conclusion of the foreign exchange loan contract. What we have to mention is that there is also a problem with the enforcement system in Hungary, because there are illegal procedures. In addition, we also have a bill that would greatly help the foreign exchange credit process, in which we also look forward to the government's support. We will support the bill because families in difficulty need every single day, but that is not the solution. We ask that we continue a substantive debate on the LMP proposal, and that we find a real solution to this problem, because the issue cannot be resolved by ignoring and delaying it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-31-34	Thank you, Member István Ikotity, notary. Dear Parliament, The pre-notified independent congresswoman is not in the room, so I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the representative of Jobbik. You have three minutes and 24 seconds, Congressman.
u2017-10-31-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am trying to add a few important things to the debate in the tight time frame. We are very pleased that this eviction moratorium will be extended, but we cannot go beyond the fact that this is probably due to the spring elections next year, and that the government does not want to see crowds on the streets before the elections, obviously this would also appear in the press, and it would show that they have not done enough for foreign exchange creditors. It should be recalled that in the autumn of 2013 we heard words of confidence from Antal Rogán and indications that, if Fidesz wins, a fair solution should also be applied to banks and enforced on the side of truth, where banks should also be significantly in their pockets, as well as if they would be affected by fair settlement. There were a lot of Fidesz foreign exchange-crediters who voted for Fidesz in 2014 at the time, although I told them that, in vain, they expected a HUF-based recording to take place at the exchange rate, because this could also be included in the words of Antal Rogán, very cleverly put it, or I could rather say that it was cleverly formulated to include it. Of course, after the election, it didn't turn out to be anything. There was talk of accounting executives and a more efficient system, and we couldn't see the results of that, but we can see that billions are still being spent on communication expenditure. By the way, I also raised this last week on oral questions, Mr Secretary of State, then I think it was unacceptable for you to say that communication expenditure could have been due, for example, to raising awareness of payments in instalments and similar things. Rather, I think, though I do not know the management of the executive faculty at such depths, that the costs which are collected from debtors and said that they are excessive, they mean so much money to the chamber, and now to the arm that needs to be pushed out. It's interesting how the century ended up with all this money! Is it not that what is being recovered from debtors lands in Fidesz companies with hundreds of millions of bills? We can now see from the concrete statements that this is true, and this could have been spent in a better way. Then we heard about the use of motor vehicles. It is very interesting that it was rejected here that if a person has to use the vehicle not for himself, but for his close relative, such as his child, for example, even because of his disability, they should extend it to this case. You have rejected this, and not so long ago in the Judicial Committee, the proposal to synchronise the value of value and value of turnover and to challenge the value of value within three years and to enable the valuation to be made on an annual basis. This means that, as the real estate was estimated at the end of 2014 at the end of 2014, they are today being auctioned at such prices. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] You can imagine how much this represents the traffic value; probably not at all. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-31-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Staudt. I now give the floor to the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, Mr László Teleki.
u2017-10-31-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is not only difficult to live in this country, but it is also very difficult for people who want to keep homes. According to the Ministry of Justice, nearly 900 thousand Hungarian citizens are being prosecuted, and we must take the Ministry of Justice's communication seriously. Of which 280 thousand debts are irrecoverable because debtors do not have real estate or movable property to cover enforcement. There are over 30,000 people waiting for an auction at home, and they're waiting for the auction until autumn. I would like to ask the MPs... - what they have tabled is very important, and I think that it is also very important for the opposition, as we have heard, and we want to support it. The Hungarian Socialist Party wants to support it, but this is a fire extinguishing, which is about the fact that they really want to limit the period before the elections, so that they can put a new layer next to them, but in the long run they do not address the problem these families have. Therefore, as I have heard from the pro-government side, they are willing to develop a long-term strategy. Our question is why they do not do it now, and why not try to put it to Parliament now before the elections, so that you can start a clean slate in the 2018 elections on this issue. So it would be in the interest of the opposition and the Hungarian Socialist Party to find long-term solutions rather than to do fire-fighting work, which could only lead to results in one or two cases. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party asks that long-term solutions be found. Thank you. [[10.50]]
u2017-10-31-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Teleki. Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, from the Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech.
u2017-10-31-39	The strange situation has emerged that, while the opposition seems to be unanimous and unanimous in its support for the proposal, they do not miss out on the government's kind of flogging, which I believe is not only unfounded, not only unprofessional, but does not correspond to historical facts either. My fellow Member in Szászfalvi has long listed the decisions and measures taken by the Government to alleviate the problems and difficulties of those who have actually been faced with a serious situation. It should not be forgotten, my fellow Members, that we did not cause this situation. This situation has led to the need to find solutions within a very difficult, financially and economically critical situation. These solutions could not be thought of differently, simply to maintain a balance. This balance had to be in financial security, it had to be in economic security, and it had to be given assistance. That's why what you're thinking, or what you're asking for right now, is that you should have hit the banks with a knight's attack, and then tell them to pay back everything now, it could have brought about financial bankruptcy itself. To accuse this government of not being able to deal with the banks... All of Europe has been paying attention to the fact that there has never been a situation in the world where banks would have been subject to taxes such as our government. And that wasn't an accident. But the limits of these had to be defined, they had to be defined. It cannot be done by endangering the safety of the economy and the security of the financial system on the one hand and, on the other, I may not even be able to provide sufficient assistance. What we are now giving, and what we are trying to do, there is no question that it serves the purpose of those who are in the most difficult situation, whether for their own faults or for other reasons, that in the coming difficult and cold winter, they will not be put in a position without housing. It is therefore understandable, I think, why the end of April. 'Cause I'm apologizing, and spring is just not adapted to the opposition, so that's pretty much when it starts. Spring is the time when certain implementations can already be made. No one, in particular a lawyer, should think that it is possible to enter into legal transactions which have no consequences. All legal transactions have consequences. It is our job to ensure that these consequences are not unfair, that they are not severely detrimental, and I believe that the government has done everything in its power. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. I now give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, Fidesz.
u2017-10-31-41	Thank you for the floor. First of all, the comments made prove that the proposal of the Christian Democratic People's Party is supported by the entire Parliament, and the whole Parliament is expected to vote for it. This is a very important starting point. In comparison, of course, the debate between us is not irrelevant, but let us note that this is a good proposal, supported by the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, because it makes the burden of debt bearable to many people and the burden of implementation. However, I would like to say that the comments seemed to me that my fellow Members did not fully clarify what this proposal was about. First of all, I would like to point out that the implementation moratorium or the eviction moratorium applies to the implementation of all debts, so not only is it a currency-credited but it is a general moratorium in this bill. As there has already been such an eviction moratorium for the winter period, this will generally be extended by the Parliament. The other thing I would like to note is that a significant part of the so-called foreign exchange-loan debtors disputes the validity of the contract itself, disputes that it owes the claim, so that these contracts have been challenged. However, in cases where the legal basis of the contract or debt is contested, they may, of course, request suspension of enforcement. Thus, the foreign exchange credentialers who have been spoken about here, who do not even acknowledge or accept that they have concluded a valid contract with them, have asked for suspension of enforcement, and the courts have suspended enforcement as a decisive percentage of the cases. So we are not talking now, honourable Members, about those who do not acknowledge their debt, but about those who have already acknowledged their debt, who accept that they really owe to banks or others, and thus carry out enforcement against them. Dear House, Let me also note that since 2010, especially since 2014, this government and this pro-government majority, Fidesz and KDNP representatives have taken a great deal of steps to improve the situation of debtors. Undoubtedly, there are still some debtors, not a small number of debtors who have a very difficult situation, but let us state that we have saved hundreds of thousands of debtors from the debt trap, we have allowed hundreds of thousands of debtors to pay their loans on easier terms. The Parliament intervened in private contracts in order to improve the situation of debtors. Hundreds of thousands of people have escaped from this trap, and indeed these decisions are due to this Parliament, this majority. This is completely independent of the fact that the difficult situation of tens of thousands of debtors who will now find some relief in this moratorium has survived. They will not be able to be evicted at least during the winter and spring periods. And, of course, in the next period, we will take further steps to ease the situation of debtors. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz.
u2017-10-31-43	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Kárpat, that if someone has a debt of 5 million, they can only demand 33 million if several of them are jointly and severally indebted, they will initiate the enforcement procedure against all joint and several debtors. These are typically spouses, parents who, by the way, know that they are guarantors and who are called in as joint and several debtors. But if either one of you pays the full debt, you can't claim all the rest. So that's it for the alarm. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What alarm?! The real case was there two weeks ago!]] I've listened to it, my fellow Member. It's okay to be aware of the legal environment, by the way. So if any of the joint and several debtors pay the debt, the rest cannot be demanded of the debt. And if any executor would do that, then that would certainly be possible with an enforcement objection. But I'm telling you, if anyone pays, they can't be demanded, so that doesn't make the claim $33 million, plus six times what they originally recorded. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Can debtors go to your host hour?]]
u2017-10-31-44	Thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] But not yelled at, but if you have the opportunity and the time frame, please let me know. I don't see that. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is closed and I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Péter Harrach, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have 11 minutes and 10 seconds of time.
u2017-10-31-45	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank all the factions for their support for the presentation. It also shows that a positive measure is being taken. It is also a fact, of course, that this debate has given us the opportunity to speak with some campaign taste. There's time for that, no doubt, but I don't think it had anything to do with the subject. There was also a rather distasteful text, which was not about the initiative nor about the preliminary measures, but about the abuse of fellow Members. It's unworthy, but let's give them a rating. [[11.00]] I believe that the fact that the fairness of banking and enforcement measures has prevented this measure cannot be silenced. For among these, perhaps the accountability of the banks should once again be highlighted, which gave back to the debtors a lot of 1000 billion. This was a bold measure that my better fellow Member drew our attention to: it made us brave. I don't know how many people in Europe bravely dared to oppose the abuse of banks. If that's not bravery, then I don't know what you mean. But if it was just part of the abuse, then we understand. But perhaps we should talk about the 135 thousand, because this is the last of the data presented about the number of debtors that are inexhaustible, according to analysts. The number of these debtors can be divided into about three thirds. In the first group, which may have been mentioned by my MSZP fellow Member, there are some who cannot sell their property, have no income, their debt is practically irrecoverable, and even the debt managers give up. Obviously for them, because they are not in danger in this sense, this does not represent direct, targeted protection. Another group that - also according to analysts - could pay, but does not. We don't have a role there. Where we need intervention, the layer where it pays, where it doesn't pay, intends to pay, but for certain reasons, whether it is unemployment, family events or anything, can't pay. Well, this is where the state has to intervene. This solution, which we are proposing now, is a temporary solution, although it is long-term, in the sense that it applies not only to this year, but also to later. It protects families from the greatest danger. I believe that when we have given protection to hundreds of thousands of families in the case of foreign exchange creditors, we have taken the most important action. But we also need to see that the overwhelming majority of the above mentioned 135,000 families in debt do not belong to families with foreign exchange loans, but are due to public utility fees, condominium demands and many other reasons for their debt. This does not mean, of course, that we do not need to help them, but the debate has gone a little towards the issue of foreign exchange creditors, which is not the greatest weight among those involved. I would like to thank you once again for your support, and I would also like to wish to the people concerned that this solution will give them a moment's rest throughout this parliamentary term, and that it will be possible later, if necessary, to resolve their situation with further measures. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-31-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Péter Harrach. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place today. The debate on the legislative report and the proposal for amendment of the Act on Home Affairs and related laws, adopted by the Parliament on 17 October 2017, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/17458/15. Letter from the President of the Republic T/17458/16. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee's proposed amendment T/17458/18. and T/17458/19. Available on the website. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the legislative committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Vas Imre, in an eight-minute time frame.
u2017-10-31-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 26 October 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed T/17458. The President of the Republic sent it back for consideration in accordance with his position. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In the light of the comments of the President of the Republic, the Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. § 3 has decided to submit an amendment. Thus, considering the provisions of the Presidential transcript of the Republic, the Committee's position is that the fundamentality clause should be deleted. The President of the Republic explained in his explanation that, at the time of the final vote, the Parliament did not adopt the fundamental provisions of the proposal, nor did it accept the amendment aimed at abandoning the essentiality clause, and therefore the proposal adopted has a misleading content for the enforcers. That is why he asked for a renegotiation of the proposal. Another criticism by the President of the Republic calls for an amendment to the Law on chimney sweeping activities. At the committee meeting, the secretary of state, present, gave reassuring answers to the pro-government representatives and said, in the context of the drafting of criticisms regarding chimney sweeping activities, that the control of single-house property, i.e. family houses, will not be terminated, but will be carried out on the basis of an order from the owner, in consultation with the provider, at the request of the owner. So as long as the chimney sweep goes to the street twice under this regulation, according to the new rules, the owner can ask when to come at an agreed time; obviously when he or one of his neighbors can let the chimney sweeps in. I would add that this has not come up in the debate, but just as, let us say, no one draws attention to the expiry of the technical test of the car, so that we can go and have a look at the car. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: The Policeman.]] If we forget to renew our license for medical fitness, it is obviously everyone's responsibility to know that their chimney must be checked. Ladies and gentlemen, The government will continue to provide the opportunity to carry out free checks, and I therefore believe that the public will always be able to enforce its own interests. I urge you to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-31-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2017-10-31-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, reading the Commission report from my fellow Member, Imre Vas, was a fine example, and this can be reflected in the whole law. [[11.10]] For all we see in telling this Commission report is lies, slips, and the like. Vas Imre said things here that were simply unprofessional, as he was talking about driving tests and the like; he only forgets, my honourable fellow Member, that if the car does not have an exam, the citizen will not be able to take it to the road transport until there is no such requirement at the housing house, simply order it or order it. He also said that you had taken into account the opinion sent back by the President of the Republic. Well, it's been taken very seriously, because what was mandatory, what they couldn't bypass, the legal parts are actually being modified, but none of the content. Allow me to read the letter from the President of the Republic, because Vas Imre may not have listened enough at the committee meeting, or he has not read the letter from the President of the Republic since. The President of the Republic has written to you, since you are in government, addressed this letter to you: The voluntary order-based chimney sweeping service represents a radical reduction in safety compared to the system that has been in operation for about 50 years and may result in a significant increase in life-threatening situations. According to international experience, the number of accidents is multiple in countries where the voluntary system is in place. For all these reasons, the Law is 79-82. I do not agree with the provisions of Section 2 of this Article. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to renegotiate the Law and to adopt it again with consideration of the above. Sincerely: János Áder János Áder didn't say exactly what you, János Áder, looked into this matter. [[To Dr. Vas Imre:]] You're laughing at János Áder, Imre Vas! [[Dr. Vas Imre: No! I'm laughing at you.]] You're laughing at the President of the Republic, exactly! You did the same at the meeting of the Justice Committee, when Professor Bándi gave you his opinion, the Deputy Ombudsman told you that you laughed at the professor just as much as you did because you were above the professor. You are above everyone, in a sense, in knowledge or in a responsibility. Congressman, get down on the ground a little bit. Don't tell me you know more than Professor Bándi about this matter. Professor Bándi asked you to do the same thing - I am talking about the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights - and he asked you to do the same. The professional organizations asked you to do the same. You guys laugh at everyone with your pride, your pride, your pride. You're the great scientists. No one but you knows this question. They did the same thing at the Legislative Commission meeting - they self-righteously asked themselves that I said that if this law was passed, it could be called attempted murder against the entire society. But you have self-respectingly requested that we withdraw this. I will be curious whether they will be so self-respected even when - God does not give it, but - death will occur as a result of this law; it is still a matter of self-respect to family members, to relatives whose relatives have died, and of self-respect to tell them how responsible you are and that you are laughing at the President of the Republic and Professor Bánd. You still have to go there, you have to stand there, you have to take responsibility. You should live in real life. We have said with statistics, everyone has said that at the moment only you, representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP, want to vote for this law. The opposition parties have expressed their concerns in this regard. As I said, Professor Bándi, who is the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, said his professional arguments. Professional organizations, the chimney sweeps, have given their professional arguments on this matter. The President of the Republic has made his professional arguments on this matter. And you don't take it into account, because you think you have the Philosopher's Stone, you're the only ones who can say anything on this issue, and whether you like it or not, you're going to vote for it. And it's not about anything else, and you know it, and I know it, it's all about you making laws that, at the time, we told you, in July 2016, will not be enforceable, and it will also be a negative law on the protection of life, the preservation of wealth and security, you brought in because you said disaster protection would solve it. They've found out since then that the opposition was right, and they've realized in a year and a half that disaster control can't solve this task, because it's been two years to check all the chimneys, and it's possible to talk about statistics here that you've checked it, and you're not gonna be able to do it, so you're moving this responsibility to the population. They think that from here on out, when there are chimney fires, when there are carbon monoxide poisonings, then disaster control will not be responsible, that's what they want to achieve with all of this. Congressman Vas Imre! I'll tell you who else doesn't agree. You know, most chimneys, 2.5 million are about in the capital. The capital has, it seems, a leader who, regardless of Fidesz's support for this position, thinks responsibly. After all, a statement has been published with the Főkéss, in which István Tarlós and the Főkéss say - and I will read it in full in my comment so that they do not tell me that I am lying - that he does not care about this law; he says that this law is, as it is, if it is adopted, irresponsible, and they, if there is such a law, even if there is no such law, will be checked every chimney in the capital, because it guarantees the safety of life and property. Then it seems that István Tarlós is also someone who doesn't know who can laugh at him, my fellow Member Imre Vas. I mean, let's have the right line. So Professor Bándi, President of the Republic, István Tarlós, the entire opposition, the whole profession - you can laugh at everyone! I'm just gonna say this again: you're gonna have to go to family members who lose relatives, loved ones in the event of a chimney fire or carbon monoxide poisoning, and you're gonna have to be able to look them in the eye. Laugh there, Congressman Vas Imre. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-31-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-31-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the basis of a proposal from the President of the Republic, the Government has considered and initiated a proposal for an amendment to the Legislative Committee to leave the polarity clause. The proposed amendment ensures that legislative coherence is maintained as there are no legal provisions requiring a qualified majority in the law. In closing the debate on the bill, I thank the Legislative Committee for its contribution. The adoption of the amendment, which lies before us and which includes technical amendments due to the President of the Republic's decision or his return, is justified and the law is acceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, LMP, who has indicated in writing her intention to speak. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-31-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot agree with the opinion of Secretary of State Pogácsás. I think that there really is a very dangerous bill ahead of us now, and I am also trying to say this in such a way that one is not guided by emotions and emotions, but by rationality. It is really difficult to argue about a bill without any reason to accept it. We are talking about a bill and an amendment that, on the other hand, could put people at great risk by essentially winning nothing. I think that there should be a serious argument enough for the two individually, so that it is not accepted, let alone together. To this day, I do not see why, whether this whole law is good for the state, for disaster management, for the administration system, what it would do to make it easier from any bureaucratic point of view. It's clearly nothing. On the other hand, it puts society and people in great danger. You know, Secretary of State, the fact that there is a problem in one area and that it could work better and smoother is not the solution to abandoning the task itself. And what my fellow Member Vas Imre mentioned, the technical examination of the car, I was surprised at that, because it is not the solution, it has not happened that someone would terminate the technical examination of the cars, as it would put those involved in the traffic at great risk - we are not doing that, are we? [[11.20]] Like, for example, we do not stop schooling simply because, let us say, parents may face administrative and other burdens by having to go to school. We're not doing that, are we? This, too, would put Hungarian society at risk in a different way. It is clear that both the Deputy Ombudsman and János Áder have drawn attention to the content problems in this bill, and they have drawn attention to the enormous risk that people could put at risk that more people will lose their lives in the heating season if this bill is adopted. I know they're not the tellers. I do not think that you will take into account the opinion of either János Áder or the Deputy Ombudsman or the Ombudsman himself in this case. The fact that they have issued such a substantive opinion, I think, is a rare and, in this case, a commendable thing. I don't think that's what you're basing yourself on. But base on the fact that you will also have to look into the eyes of people who will not ask for chimney checks, will not know how to claim this service, people whose everyday lives are filled with survival from one day to the next, fill in how they will get to firewood - and now I would not go into the firewood issue, unfortunately there are problems there - they will pay attention to this, not when the last chimney check is done, and how they need to get access to this service at all. It seems that disaster management is not able to properly carry out the task, but then you should obviously try to coordinate with the profession, but then in this way help and transform the work of disaster management, let's say. Really, right now at the last minute, when we still have an hour and a half to prevent more people from losing their lives in the heating season, I'm telling you, if you need more money to get disaster control to do the job properly, then give him more money. Tell me what it takes, what it takes to say yes, this bill you do not accept. Let's talk about it. Let's sit down and talk about this. Let's invite the professional organizations. This is a moment when I really have to say that families were given one last chance to escape during the heating season - we are talking about both life and property security here - and MEPs were given one last chance, especially the pro-government representatives - opponents did not support it, but then, for once in a while, let's put it to bed - a last chance not to have to spend their lives by voting in favour of a bill with which at least administratively it prevented its possibility. something that could put people's lives at risk. None of us want to spend the rest of our lives in such a way that this House has been through a proposal that will have such serious consequences, which will occur within a month. I am really asking you once again very calmly to consider this and by some means to prevent this proposal from passing through the House. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-31-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2017-10-31-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This bill, its debate, schedule and fate before Parliament, is so absurd that István Örkény could have advanced from one minute to one minute, because this is the salad law on certain domestic duties that we are talking about today, a salad law on certain domestic duties, where everything can be found from the angle to the plane, from chimney sweep to the wage increase of law enforcement workers to two-thirds of the municipal law. I think it shows this absurd situation very well that, although we are talking about an internal law, the Justice Committee was appointed to discuss this law, the Defence and Police Committee as a commission did not see this proposal either now or after its return. The absurd situation was further aggravated by the fact that, although in the general debate, every opposition Member said that what you are planning to do in the chimney sweep area would cause a huge problem, the members of the chimney sweep trade union said this, and then wrote down and said - as has been mentioned several times here - Deputy Ombudsman Gyula Bándi, who personally went to the committee meeting, made clear the simple Hungarian sentence that you could not even confront anything here at all, but even with a direct eye, they could not say anything to us that it was clear and clear that by adopting this law you would endanger the lives and security of Hungarian people. In this sentence, if we were not living in Absurdistan, the Hungarian Parliament would stop and voluntarily and sing to amend the law or simply remove these passages from it. And you're gonna laugh and tell everyone, the country and the people involved that you're still going through everyone. After that, the President of the Republic of Hungary, János, sent the law back here to Parliament for consideration, with the most cruel argument that they can't say, but the Secretary of State can't even look me in the eye, because that is the most cruel argument, because the numbers, honourable Parliament, are the figures that clearly show that in countries where there is no mandatory chimney sweep, but that announcement on a voluntary basis, which you are about to introduce, is not a little, but several times more people who are hurt and die there. Do you hear what I'm saying? ! Die! Your President of the Republic will write this down for you, and they won't move your ears. They're saying how good this is gonna be. Who? Tell me who's gonna like this. For whom will it be good when helpless, old people or children who are sleeping peacefully die because of this law! [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] Who's gonna like this? How will they look in the mirror? What's at stake, tell me, are you not responding to these arguments at all? ! Business? Power? Or what? [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: Both of them!]] Help me! These arguments cannot be debated, and not even by us, but by the profession, the authorised and therefore held Deputy Ombudsman and the President of the Fidesz Republic himself. Look inside and understand that this law cannot be voted. And it is not that the Fidesz Members will suffer political defeat if this law does not pass. And yes, it is also not a matter of opposition representatives winning political victory if this law does not pass. It's not about that. With good reason, there is simply no reason to expect legislation to endanger people's lives for a vile reason. You've been warned in advance. There may be only one winner here if you withdraw this law or you do not vote today, or at least this part of it. [[Lajos Korózs: 10 million Hungarians.]] The ten million Hungarians, yes, who live in this country. If your problem is that after the unthinkable and hasty nationalization and transformation of disaster protection, you cannot - because you cannot - carry out this task, if you wish, Mr. Secretary, I will also give you a personal example here in Parliament of how someone called for disaster protection on the phone, so that you can log in to do a chimney sweep in the next period, hearing the news where you laughed at him, that you do not understand what you are talking about, and after 1 January, but you are not available for this. This fantastic public service is free, of course, so it's especially free. What would be the solution? What would be the solution that at least we legislators could quietly lie down, that we did everything we could to make sure that no innocent victim was either the chimney fire or the carbon monoxide poisoning in Hungary? And that is not the elimination of the mandatory chimney sweep, but either disaster protection or the strengthening of chimney sweeping companies, increasing their funding, increasing their number, and, yes, Mr. Secretary of State, the exact opposite, whether every heating season or twice a year, is to carry out mandatory checks, as in every normal country where the number of such accidents or deaths is almost zero, this is the solution, even multiple mandatory inspections per year. [[11.30]] Don't tell me that Hungarian citizens get up and lie in such a way that it is written in their little calendar when to order the chimney sweep. It can be enveloped in advance that, of course, those living in a difficult line, the poorer, will be at greater risk not only because of their financial situation but also because of their access to information. But let no one rule out that any wealthy family will be in a situation where, completely forgotten or unaware of their fantastic amendment to the law, no one will look at their chimney for the next five to ten years, and tragedy will occur. In conclusion, we would like to ask you to take this seriously. It's not a matter of fractional discipline. This is not a party policy issue. It's simple - I can't say anything else, maybe this word doesn't say anything here in this House, there, on the other side - a moral, moral and human question. Please act accordingly at 1:30 in the vote. Thank you for listening.
u2017-10-31-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-31-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to continue, as I mentioned in the statement of the minority opinion, that you must do something with this law; indeed, it is incomprehensible to me too. Let's look at the current situation and see what this is all about. We are talking about the protection of ten million Hungarians' lives, the protection of ten million Hungarians' property security. That's what we're talking about, that's what we're arguing about. On this issue, the lineup in Hungary today looks like there is the Fidesz-KDNP government, there are the Fidesz MEPs, and almost everyone, the entire opposition, the profession, the deputy ombudsan, the President of the Republic, the mayor of the capital, and you are not willing to change that, not even for that reason. This is not about banning your greatest hobby, let us say, corruption, in which people will not die in good times, but people's lives. You are as arrogant in this regard as you have to decide whether you will defend Florian Farkas or Antal Rogán flying over the country, who does not know how to account for HUF 1600 million. But it's not a question of this type, it's much more serious than that. Yet you reject these things. Let's look at it again, since it's mentioned here that apart from you saying that we're not, and we're only passing it over to you, you can't support the legitimacy of this amendment with one piece of data, and even every single piece of data is against it. I think you'll remember - and you can't point back at the last eight years and things like that - that you made this rule from April 1, 2014, unlike the practice of earlier decades, twice a year to control the chimneys of wood-fired, typically wood-burning equipment, so we started from here, so we had to check it twice a year. You have modified this once a year. Do you know what happened from 2014 to 2016? Typically, the number of chimney fires at these chimneys increased by 40 percent. You may say here that there has been an argument at the Justice Committee meeting that there was a chimney fire in the country in 2015 and 2016. Yeah, sure, in Germany, maybe. The number of chimney fires increased by 40 percent during this one measure. Then what happened? In 2016, you thought that we would still change security. They said that the annual one-off check was converted into a one-off once every two years, because disaster control would do so. Then what happened? The number of carbon monoxide poisonings in 2016 was more than double in 2015, with 28 deaths. In any case, whatever they try to pin this data on anything else, there are 28 deaths compared to 11 in 2015. And you're still saying they're changing, let's go down, make it worse. If this is modified, believe me, everyone has said that the number of chimney fires and carbon monoxide poisonings in this country will unfortunately rise. I can't imagine that this could be someone's goal, just to protect the mundane's honor, to protect disaster protection, which, as it were, should be examined. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if we're going to deal with professional issues, but he probably won't be able to answer me that, tell me already that, let's say, at the Legislative Committee's meeting, 2.1 million trumpets also belong to disaster management. According to them, 1.7 million of them have already been checked. I'd like to ask you a number: how many places did you test the flue gas? Not in any place, because disaster management staff don't do these measurements. Do you know who's doing it? It's the Archbishop. They'll go out and measure it. This can be seen simply to see if the pipe is drilled, the smoke pipe, or if it is not drilled. If the pipe is drilled, that's where the exhaust gas was measured. If it's not drilled, and maybe the media will get it to the public, I'll ask the public to look at it, it's simple: there's a hole in the smoke pipe where you can put this instrument and measure it. This is a very important issue, because it already prevents problems that if values are measured there, then there must be some problem. You're the only ones who won't do it. I don't see how it's possible to put this responsibility on the public just to protect the mundane's honor. Up to 5 percent of citizens will order this, but we already said a very good data, we said a very, very good data. 95 percent isn't, 95 percent will be in danger. You claim that you want to reduce the administrative burden on the population. That's their argument, that's the only argument. The very large administrative burden, which meant that the chimney sweep had appeared, checked the chimney, and the owner signed it; a signature: this was the great administrative burden. That's what you want to reduce in time and in everything. Now there will be no greater burden to call someone, nor do they know what he's talking about, then laugh at him, or come out, or don't come out, or show up or don't show up, sign orders afterwards. The only argument they've ever had is because a signature was a very big administrative burden, a time burden, and then here you're talking about Vas Imre cars about how they should be tested and things like that. You're the ones who just mix things up. At the time, we hadn't talked about the fact that when the chimney sweep went out and found a minor flaw, he could have ordered the owner of the house to repair it. He had time to do that until the next check. Can you imagine in this economic situation how many families will know that there may be something wrong with his chimney, but there won't be, say, tens or hundreds of thousands of forints to correct it? Who's gonna call the chimney sweeps? No. Rather, he will pray to God that there is no problem. What if there is? This isn't just about people who don't order it. This law is also about those who, say, as a responsible citizen, will order the chimney sweep, and they will be all right, but it may not be your neighbor, and for a chimney fire, not just the house that burns down when there is a bigger fire that creates the fire, but all the others around it. One thing I recommend to you in a responsible way is that carbon monoxide and fire do not choose between who voted for it. No matter the party sympathy, your voters are in as much danger as the voters of any other party, because fire and carbon monoxide do not look at who they voted for in the previous elections. [[11.40]] So you're putting your own voters in this kind of danger. And you can say anything, the Secretary of State will stand up, tell you how hard disaster management works, and then we can ask you any professional question, and you won't answer that. But I would also like to ask the question that GEK has been failing to comply with its legal obligation for almost a year and a half. How do you feel about this, Mr State Secretary, that in the case of disaster management, you have a legal obligation for a year and a half to hand over the databases on economic organisations to chimney sweepers, together with the chimney stock, and you do not do that? Either he doesn't know or he doesn't want to, but it could be - and I think it might be the reality - that he doesn't have such a central record. This is a disaster! With disaster protection, you have put Hungary, the safety of life and property, in a catastrophic situation. I ask you not to bring it any deeper, and do not put the population in Hungary at even greater risk. Don't accept that law. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2017-10-31-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-10-31-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I think that there are basically a few things that are worth clarifying in the set of data that many of us have presented here. The chimney sweeping body currently has 2 million 150,000 chimneys on which the chimney check is to be carried out and the chimney check is to be carried out . By the way, until now, as Mr Szilágyi referred to it, 1 million 663 thousand chimneys were checked until 13 October, and the rest will be done by the end of the year. The law itself applies to chimney checks, according to which chimney checks are carried out at the request of the population, only to single-dwelling houses, so it does not apply to 10 million people, it does not apply to block houses, block dwellings. By the way, in the quoted capital and in the big cities where the old tenements are, there is typically the biggest problem with chimneys. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] And if this chimney sweep had worked so well before 2014 or in the previous period, there would not be more than 600 thousand chimneys in Hungary that are barely capable of carrying out the flue-gas discharge in condominiums, blockhouses, old apartment buildings. The chimney control, in particular in the gardened home zones, typically involved the collection of chimney fees, so to speak chimney taxes or smoke taxes. For years, for decades, no actual chimney sweeps or chimney checks have been carried out until disaster control has taken over this task. This is also supported by the fines imposed and the measures taken. Once again, I would like to emphasise that this option applies only to single-dwelling houses. Everyone will have the opportunity to order the chimney sweep free of charge. And all international comparisons lame that this activity in Hungary, when ordered by the citizen, the property owner, is free of charge and will be performed free of charge. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-31-60	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, From 1:30 p.m., we continue our work with decisions. I'm gonna take a break for 13 hours and 30 minutes. [[Pause: 11.44 13.32President: Dr. János LatorcaiCookies: Attila Gelencsér and István Ikotity]]
u2017-10-31-61	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and I immediately ask you all to take your seats, because there are decisions to be taken. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your parliamentary card has been properly placed in the voting machine. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, It follows a decision by the President of the Republic on the proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending domestic and other related laws, adopted on 17 October 2017 by the Parliament for consideration, and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/17458/15. Letter from the President of the Republic T/17458/16. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposed by T/17458/18 and T/17458/19. can be identified. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. [[Noise.]] It would be an extraordinary honor for you to keep the noise down a bit so I don't have to yell at you with all my might. Thank you. First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17458/18. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 116 votes in favour, 33 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the President of the Republic T/17458/15. Act sent for signature, but not published, with amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament passed the law by 117 votes, 58 votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Protocol between Hungary and the Republic of Austria on cooperation between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Austria in order to prevent and combat cross-border crime, on the amendment of the Treaty signed in Heiligenbrunn on 6 June 2004. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17564 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 174 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17780 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 174 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. There follows the T/17781 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of road border bridges and border sections at common borders. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17781 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 175 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. H/17753 on the adoption of the Hungarian National Bank's business report and report for the year 2016. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/17753. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 117 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Next up is the H/18032 on support for the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion for a resolution will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. [[13.40]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/18032. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution, the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 176 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. T/18004. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/18004/4, and its summary report T/18004/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/18004/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 176 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/18004. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill with 176 votes in favour, without voting against or abstention. Following is the T/17571 on certain amendments to the laws needed to increase national competitiveness. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17571/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1757/15. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, 28 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17571.7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 144 votes to 28, 28 against, with four abstentions. Following is T/17565 on the amendment of certain migration laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17555/5 of the legislative committee's summary amendment report is T/175656. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1755/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes to 31, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/175657. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 141 votes in favour, 29 against and 5 abstentions. It follows that T/17783 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the change of the name of the Governmental Officials Arbitration Committee will follow. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17783. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 144 votes in favour, no votes against, with 31 abstentions. Following a series of amendments to Act C of 2003 on electronic communications, T/17562. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17562/6. T/17562/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17562.6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, no votes against, with 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17562/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 147 votes in favour, no votes against, with 30 abstentions. The H/177885 on the Hungarian Sign Language Day follows. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/17785. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 177 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Following the 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings Act T/17572 amending certain criminal laws and the laws governing cooperation in criminal matters in the European Union and in international criminal matters. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17572/6. T/17572/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Staudt Gábor. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17572.6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 145 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17572/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 145 votes, 32 against and without abstentions. [[13.50]] Next up is the 2017 LXXVIII on lawyering. T/17563 amending certain laws and other laws relating to the entry into force of law Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17563/7. T/17563/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendment No 2 and 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is also proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 119 votes against, 24 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/175637. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 27 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17563/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes to 31, with 27 abstentions. It follows that T/17566 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the harmonisation of the law on insurance and payment matters. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1756/6. T/1756/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 118 against, no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1756/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1756/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes to 34, with 25 votes in favour. It follows from the 2007 General Sales Tax CXXVII. T/17786. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17786 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 176 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that the tax exemption for grants and scholarships granted by each State is T/17787. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/177787/7. and a summary report by T/17787/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1778/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 177 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1778/79. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 177 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now up to T/17558 on the amendment of certain laws for the employment of beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits through pensioners' cooperatives in the public interest. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17558/7. T/17558/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17558/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 144 votes in favour, no votes against, with 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17558/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 144 votes to none, with 33 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by our colleagues at Hadházy Ákos and Schmuck Erzsébet LMP, the LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. T/16750. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the bill into consideration by 57 votes in favour, 116 votes against, one vote in favour. I thank my fellow Members for their cooperation and attention, and we have reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber.]] [[14.00]] All my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber now because of their urgent duties, I ask you to do so as quickly and as quietly as possible so that we can continue our work. Dear Parliament, The 2013 LXXXVII on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by our fellow Members Gergely Gulyás and Róbert Répássy Fidesz T/18003. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Gulyás Gergely, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2017-10-31-62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The House must negotiate a short, clear and clear legislative amendment proposal. In 2013, we adopted new rules on campaign funding. It may not always be said, but there was a consensus between the parliamentary parties that equal opportunities are being served, that today all parties who can set up a national list for parliamentary elections have the opportunity to receive serious state campaign support. This is not excessive, realisticly adapted to the current costs of a national campaign, and, of course, it always gives rise to populist sounds, but overall, we can say that it is still much cheaper for the country to have public campaign funding under fair conditions than if someone otherwise serves foreign or Hungarian economic interest groups, they become addicted to them. We therefore believe that, overall, it was the right and the right decision, which was then taken by the Parliament by a two-thirds majority as a law, in the form of a law. However, it is also true that the assumption that in 27 single constituencies - and these 27 single constituencies must be in 9 counties and in the capital - anyone can make a list in these constituencies requires national organisation, and we thought that this criterion alone prevents abuse of state campaign funds. Therefore, while the campaign finance law provided for the candidates to have a repayment obligation of HUF 1 million in state campaign support, this was not included in the national list. The criticisms on this matter have been heard. I would not burden my fellow Members now - at most after the vote - to quote one by one from Members in the various opposition groups, or even from the amendments tabled earlier, which have been submitted by opponents, to apply some threshold, after which the party who has not achieved the result will be obliged to repay this party on the national list. We tried to do this in February this year. So if the question is why now: in February this year, there was a five-party discussion on which representatives of all the parties were present, everyone promised feedback. Jobbik and LMP have failed to fulfill their promise; the Hungarian Socialist Party has made its possible support subject to additional conditions that are not closely linked to campaign financing. In June this year, the amendment proposed by the Hungarian Socialist Party in connection with the Poster Act also included a threshold of 1 per cent, the obligation to repay would have been met if it had not been met, including personal responsibility. We voted in favour of this - and the authors voted against it, along with the entire opposition. Therefore, there is no threshold in the Campaign Finance Act today. It is undoubtedly true that Parliament has not yet been able to vote on this proposal alone and only on this proposal, but we would now like to give each of us one last opportunity to remedy a deficiency which would otherwise appear from the letter of the President of the State Audit Office, in order to adopt a bill which is appropriate to opposition criticisms by a two-thirds majority. The proposal is clear. If and if a party does not reach half a percentage on a national list and has received state campaign support, it is obliged to repay it. It is assured that all members of the party's governing body are jointly and severally liable for repayment with their entire assets. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér is replaced by László Földi, István Ikotity István Szávay.]] I believe that, if this amendment is accepted by the Parliament, we will preserve the positive effects of the campaign finance law on equal opportunities, while at the same time removing the various external and domestic lobbying forces, while at the same time eliminating the loophole that allowed abuse. Therefore, in line with their earlier statements, I call on the representatives of all the groups to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-31-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] I do now. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-10-31-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In short, the government supports every step that serves the cleanliness of elections. So we propose that the proposal be supported by all the factions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-31-65	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-31-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Each electoral system contains rules to ensure the seriousness of the nomination among election candidates. The nomination is clear, and the departure of the election is also responsible, so our electoral system also includes such thresholds. For example, think of the recommendations, since the recommendation also proves that the candidate has real support; that is why he can start and run in the elections, because he is not only self-appointed but also supported by others. Such rules include, in some electoral systems, financial guarantees where, for example, a deposit is required from candidates, and in this case, if they do not achieve a certain election result, the amount deposited will be lost. So there are other such financial guarantees. Here, in our case, it is very important that the rule that our group leader has referred to is that the candidates receive state aid, that nominating organisations receive state aid, that taxpayers' money is put at risk at the time of the election, and that taxpayers' money is used. [[14.10]] Therefore, it can be expected that, on the one hand, this State aid will be taken into account, and, on the other hand, if the nomination is subsequently proven to have been a frivolous nomination without sufficient support, then the State aid should be repaid, not only for the inclusion of State aid, but not only for State aid. This rule already exists in the case of candidates, there is a limit or threshold of 2 percent, and the bill before us, as you have just heard from the author, would set this threshold of seriousness by 0.5 percent, let us call it that. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, indeed, the Hungarian election campaign is different from that of many countries in which candidates and nominating organisations receive state aid to help them participate in the election campaign. So equal opportunities are supported by the state, because equal opportunities are valuable, and there are no organisations or persons in the elections at risk of external financing that is sometimes legal, sometimes illegal. Of course, it can also be legal if parties can legally accept donations. Dear House, The bill is therefore clear. In 2014, we saw that, unfortunately, many have abused, many nominating organisations have abused the generous support of the Hungarian state, and Hungarian taxpayers generously support the election campaign, so there was a procedure against many organisations. Unfortunately, we can see that the vast majority of these ended with the fact that, in the end, there was no one to repay these subsidies, no one to account for these subsidies. This proposal is intended not only to repay support for nominating organisations below the seriousness threshold, but also to ensure that the management bodies of nominating organisations account for the public money they use. So the proposal is for two purposes. On the one hand, as I said, like many of the world's electoral systems, it integrates a kind of risk for nominating organisations, and on the other hand it guarantees the liability of nominating organisations by means of personal financial responsibility. That is why I ask this House, like the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance, to support this bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-31-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-10-31-68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that before anyone else has any doubt that the electoral law, both procedural law and substantive law, and other legislation related to the election, was voted by Fidesz alone, and it was developed by Fidesz alone. That's why he's responsible for all his mistakes on his own. He didn't consult anyone, he didn't consult anyone, in English, anything that is wrong with what is a problem in which abuse is based is the sole responsibility of Fidesz. However, I would also like to emphasise that the direction that this proposal sets is good. But the tip of the iceberg. It's like scratching the tip and surface of the iceberg with a little nail file. The electoral rights system is wrong, unfair, in the interests of Fidesz as it is. The only element of this poor system is the legislation on fake parties, which is affected by this proposal. Moreover, it is not even complex because, for example, it does not provide for a system of plural recommendation, even though the National Election Committee expressed its concerns after the election and suggested that it be abolished, precisely because of the fake parties. It's just the funding you're talking about. I would also like to make it clear that we have a complex proposal in front of this House, which has been developed by the Joint Country Movement by seven parties. We consider ourselves bound, if you will, to support this, and we would also like to ask you to support it. This is in front of the Parliament, and obviously the committee will decide soon on the subject series. I ask you, if you change that, why don't you change the rest? It's hard for me to understand and understand. One thing that I think is that it is very important to think about, that this proposal should be supported by opposition parties, and this is the next. These fake parties, which have virtually no social support, nothing, because the party with the highest support, which did not get into Parliament, received 0.56%, but some of them received a total of 1572 votes nationwide. These parties cost Hungarian taxpayers HUF 3.5 billion. 3.5 billion forints. In other words, it is worth considering the support of this proposal, and I will say it once again as an opposition representative, because in the event that nothing else changes, we can do at least that we save the Hungarian people HUF 3.5 billion. However, I would like to draw attention to the problems that still exist in the area of electoral law. After all, if we are discussing one of its elements, we need to see and feel this in context. I take it as a starting point and to base my opinion on an independent body, not, let us say, on our own, especially on the key findings of the OSCE ODIHR report; I think this is very good as a starting point. Let us also look at what was written about the Hungarian elections in 2014 and, in that context, about the legislation on suffrage. First of all, the public-law transformation involving the electoral procedure undermined the system of brakes and balances. There was no guarantee of the impartiality of the electoral bodies. In particular, the OSCE mission pointed out that, by increasing the number of members of the NVB, its course of action had changed, and that some decisions were decided on the basis of party interests rather than on the basis of legal arguments. The OSCE considered the procedure of the NVB to be of concern. The boundaries of the constituency were drawn arbitraryly, without transparency, independence and consultation. By not applying the same method of law and procedure to voters residing abroad, depending on the existence of a Hungarian residence, obligations on equal suffrage have been violated. All this brought 100,000 votes to the governing parties and spared them at least so many votes against. During the election period, the rules on commercial media were designed in such a way that the parties' electoral advertisements could not appear there. However, the governing parties easily played this by flooding commercial televisions as government advertising with advertisements of the same content as those used elsewhere by the governing parties. In addition, they were able to fund campaigns from public sources where the opposition was banned, not forming part of the campaign spending. According to the OSCE's measurements, the media owned by public media and businessmen close to the government broadcast uncritically positive news against the government; the opposition parties, in particular, the left-wing cooperation, mostly negative. Sometimes the combined share of positive and neutral news did not exceed 20 percent. This problem in an election held now would be even more so. Under the OSCE mission, there were no government critical voices in the public media, but almost nothing in the opposition. According to the final report of the mission, the lack of parties' participation in the Media Council and its significant sanctioning powers are at risk of arbitrary intervention. In the campaign, the Media Council did not decide on any complaints. According to the law, opposition parties had very limited access to campaign opportunities provided by public advertising platforms, including billboards, public transport, lampposts, which were and are almost exclusively owned and held by government-related individuals. Well, that's changed a bit. In addition, companies did not have to publish the price list of outdoor advertising, so on the one hand, the transparency of campaign spendings was made impossible, and on the other hand, companies close to the government, even if they sold display advertising platforms to opposition parties, did so for a number of times, as in the case of government parties. [[14.20]] In addition, civil society organisations linked to each government, the Civil Alliance Forum, held a billion-dollar campaign, which did not fall within the scope of limited campaign costs due to lack of legal requirements. Here comes the following in the line: the governing parties created and supported small parties calling themselves left-wing parties, and they were most likely supported to collect the signatures needed for the start-up. The latter confirms that these parties did not receive as many votes in the election as they were recommended. This was the way, ladies and gentlemen, that the opposition parties reaching the parliamentary threshold overall received more votes than the government side, but the governing parties gained a two-thirds majority here in Parliament. But let us go further than this report: in the overall analysis of Freedom House on Europe and Eurasia, measuring the level of democracy, it analyses the electoral procedures of each country first. It is clear in the report that the level of democracy in electoral procedures has fallen significantly since the electoral reform between 2010 and 14 was carried out. In 2011, he was still scored at 1.75, while in 2012 he dropped by 2.25 and in 2015, the score increased from 2.25 to 2.75. But many analytical institutes, Political Capital, Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, Republicon, but the Századvég Foundation also analyzed the 2014 elections. All of them, my fellow Members, have found that there should be no misunderstanding, and the Századvég, that the new system is significantly more distorted than the one in force at the time, in favour of the largest party, the winner. A few words, perhaps, about proportionality, about constitutionality. Two researchers, using the so-called Losemore-Hanby index, examined the proportionality of the existing electoral system in 2014, which they found to be more disproportionate, i.e. categorized as one of the most uneven systems. Interesting calculation figures are also included in this study that in 2014 one vote on the candidates and list of Fidesz-KDNP was worth more than twice as much in terms of the acquisition of mandates as the votes of the left-wing electoral alliance, and about three times as much as the votes cast on Jobbik and LMP. To quote from the opinion of a constitutional lawyer, we are now turning to constitutionality: It may run counter to the principle of equal opportunities if the over-representation of the winning political forces is achieved. The election should not lead to the over-representation of a political force, resulting in a significantly distorted will of the people expressed by the vote, and the composition of Parliament is inexplicably different from that of the votes cast. I think that if a voting result brings a two-thirds majority, then when the number of votes cast to the opposition is greater than that of the governing parties, this statement is true of the Hungarian electoral system. With one question only, what these problems were specifically. Victory compensation: According to research, as a result of the winning compensation, in 2014 the governing parties on the national list gained 6 mandates at the expense of opposition parties, and without the introduction of the institution, the Losemore-Hanby index I mentioned would have decreased from 22 to 17. In other words, in this regard, an unsubstantiated policy absurdity, i.e. winning compensation, cannot be justified by anything. About drawing boundaries, I mean, from the constituency. Analysts have shown that the borders have been drawn by the governing parties in a way that clearly favors them. I don't think it's worth it. The abolition of the second round of elections - also stated by all analyses - has increased the pro-government candidates' chances of obtaining mandates, according to experts. The distinction between the voting rights of foreigners and the way in which they vote, which I have already quoted from the OSCE opinion, has resulted in the total number of Hungarian citizens working abroad being sold and cast by 28,000 of them. Obviously, they wouldn't have basically supported you. With a brief sentence about media regulation during the campaign period. In practice, there was hardly any political advertising, but at the same time there was dumping in the government's publicly paid advertisements, which were not covered by campaign funding, and news broadcasts of government praise and negative news to the opposition. In commercial televisions, government ads also appeared in a large number, but not at all in party advertisements. And then, of course, we can get to what you're about to regulate. I have gone through this, ladies and gentlemen, to show that there are a great deal of problems with this electoral system - why is this one being highlighted in it? Then let's talk about all of them. So, we're going to get to plural recommendation, the party support system. Of the small parties that could make a national list at the 2014 parliamentary elections, but did not finally reach Parliament, I will now give surprising figures, 12 out of 14, almost all the votes in the elections were less than their recommendations, 12 out of 14. Some, after 25 thousand recommendations, received 1572 votes nationwide and, as I mentioned earlier, as party support, a total of HUF 3.5 billion in state aid, with which they did not have to account for it in terms of terms, by law, and, if I understand correctly, we will not have to accept it in the future, even if we accept it in the future. The only reason this is interesting is because when using state campaign support for 1 million HUF to individual candidates, the law excludes cash movements, requires compliance with strict accounting requirements, and the costs are directly controlled by the Treasury. Well, in addition, with these candidates, the threshold is not 0.5, but 1 percent where the money has to be repaid, if it has not been achieved as a support. While we are already touching funding, I would suggest that we consider, by the way, why we do not do this with the plural recommendation system, because this is also the direct regulation of the fake parties and why we are not tightening up their clearing obligations. One thing's for sure. We have the logic and the package of proposals for ourselves, and once again I say that we regard it as being followed, which we have adopted together with the Common Country Movement. In this area, this threshold should be set at 1 per cent. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because this proposal, of course, makes it possible only by house to present an amendment in this context, and we will present this amendment, thus raising the obligation to repay to the 1 per cent threshold. I'm asking you to consider it. I think this is important not only because of this, but also because it will become coherent with the regulation of individual candidates and, by the way, with the system of party support. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I ask you to consider these, Honourable Parliament, and we will also consider the support of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-31-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr János Harghitai, is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-31-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Four years ago, the electoral law was voted by the Fidesz and KDNP factions [[Dr. István Józsa: For himself!]] So the responsibility of the Fidesz faction for the socialist keynote speaker, we take it upon ourselves. At the same time, we are willing to make corrections. [[Dr. István Józsa: For his own good!]] We don't think this electoral law is perfect. You can argue about obviously all the elements, things that aren't in the bill right now. The sentence of Mr Barándy, who said that we should consider even making a small correction to the electoral law, should we do so, as it is also a question of public money management. I did not expect that participation in the elections could be motivated by access to public money in itself. [[Dóra Dúró:]] These so-called fake parties may not consider the election outcome to be important to themselves. Therefore, with regard to the possibility of managing public money, in addition to not wanting to make the conditions for running for elections difficult, we would not do so now, but we would set some standards here. I think it is important, and my faction also considers it important that these restrictions take place, including what the socialist lead speaker has said; what he has said on this subject should be considered. Thank you.
u2017-10-31-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. Speaker of the Jobbik Group, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, you have the floor. [[14.30]]
u2017-10-31-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Gergely Gulyás said in the author's exposé that he could quote opposition representatives, we could summon pro-government politicians, or we could also ask you personally, or Mr Répássy, why Jobbik's proposal to do so had not been put on the agenda earlier in the previous term in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: I told you.]] Both of them were present at the meeting and voted when Jobbik submitted - by the way, setting a 2-percent threshold - a proposal that basically put forward the same regulation, and if it had been adopted then, then the 2014 case would not have happened. So if anyone has a responsibility in paying this 3.5 billion forints to fake parties in 2014, then it is you, fellow Members. If they had then been able to overcome the party's political motivation - because it was obvious that this was the reason Jobbik's proposal was not supported at the time - then we could have saved money in 2014 to pay money of this size and then not be recovered from these fake parties. Indeed, with regard to the whole electoral system, both the substantive legislation on electoral rights and the procedural rules and the rules on campaign financing have been adopted by Fidesz alone, it is a matter of one-party regulation... [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: Two pairs!]] Two parties... - unfortunately I cannot see KDNP as an independent entity in this respect either. When... [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: He is legally independent! Dr. János Harghitai intervenes.]] You will have the opportunity to respond to my speech. When, in the previous term, the Parliament, as it was a matter of two-thirds laws, and five-party negotiations were launched on this, Jobbik was the only opposition party involved, both the LMP and the MSZP remained absent. As their group leader, János Lázár took part in these discussions, and Mr Gergely Gulyás joined a later meeting, and the first meeting started at that time. The KDNP was also represented, of course, and Jobbik was one of the greatest lessons learned from my work. We went to these discussions, we prepared with honor, we presented our professional proposals, Fidesz also made its very good professional proposals, and then when the bill was tabled, a very different proposal came before the House than was presented to us at the meetings, and we had the professional debate about it, so it was not in a thank-you relationship with the proposal we had before. This, therefore, has been a very big lesson in how worthy it is to take seriously on voting rights issues that they want to involve the opposition, and it became clear to us at the time that it was nothing at all. Indeed, one of the biggest failures of the current electoral system and campaign financing system is the appearance and support of fake parties in this way, and Jobbik has also drawn attention to this on several occasions. At the same time, there are some details in the proposal that we believe should be corrected or corrected. At the same time, if we change this one regulation, the campaign funding system will not be transparent, the chances will not be equal, and the electoral law will not be such as to ensure that the election in a democracy should ensure that the will of the people is also enforced in the composition of the Parliament's mandate. This is not a question of choosing a government when we take part in the election, but of expressing our party preference, of choosing a party whose values we can identify with, regardless of whether the party is now in government or not. But in Hungary, the electoral system also pushes people's thinking to choose a governing party because of the disproportionateness, and if they want to replace the government, as the Hungarian people wanted to replace the Orbán government in 2014, this is a matter of fact, the majority of Hungarian voters wanted Viktor Orbán to stop ruling, more people voted for opposition parties than they did for governing parties, so the result of the distortion of the electoral system is that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán could remain. So if they were truly committed to democratic elections, they would not change such a detailed rule, which would otherwise have serious financial consequences and the consequences of justice, but would not change the result for the overall electoral system. And the problem is that the XXI. In the 20th century, in the world of mediaised politics, it is not only the technical conduct of the electoral system or the elements of the electoral system that determine the outcome of an election, but also media regulation and not just the role of the media in the campaign period, in those 50 days, but the four years that take place between the two elections. According to the annual statistics of the Media Council in Hungary, it is more than 70% - more than 70%! - pro-government speakers on political shows, that's unacceptable. This is a mockery of the requirement for balanced information, its contempt, and has been happening in Hungary for years, although this does not comply with any international standards. Because there is the French standard, which is applied in many countries, the two-thirds to one-third of the government-government opponent's voice rate is displayed, but in Hungary they can't even limit themselves to the two-thirds of the pro-government speakers, because over 70 percent of the previous year, it was even more brutal, and in the public media there was a news programme, a public service news programme where 89 percent of the speakers were pro-government politicians - 89 percent! So in a self-indulgent democracy, the opposition is allowed more space in a public service news program than 89 percent of the party's voice. In fact, with regard to such media appearance rates, it would be practically unnecessary to talk about how many mandates the winning compensation is distorting now, because the fact that the media are being robbed for four years is distorting a lot of mandates, not three, four or five, but much more than that. Plus, it's become a practice in the media to lie about Jobbik in a series of conscious, top-down lies. In a year - in a year! We won over 70 press correction lawsuits against fidesz media only, 70 in one year! It is not in these cases that a journalist is wrong or inaccuracies; it is quite clear that they lie from above, knowingly and repeatedly, and because of the regulation of press correction and enforcement, it is virtually months before the correction can actually be made in these press organisations; because the enforcement regulation is such that it is worth lying to the press organ, because it is months away, the victim has to pay more money, pay an enforcement fee to ensure that the execution takes place at all, and then 4-5 months later, after the final court ruling is delivered, the correction will be made 4-5 months later. But now they're not just doing this, they're not just doing the correction, they're doing it because they're failing a lawsuit, and then they're writing down the same thing in which the lawsuit failed again - it's the latest, and we haven't even filed a bill yet. So you're saying... [[Dr. Gulyás Gergely intervenes.]] they claim... - to the campaign of... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I will not deviate more than Congressman Gergely Bárándy did... [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Gergely Gulyás: No doubt that was against house rules! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why? I was talking about your environment! What else do you need?]] So don't criticize the president, Mr. Group leader, if... I was talking about media regulation distorting the outcome of the election much more than campaign funding. So if you really want equal forces to fight the electoral system, then that should be changed as soon as possible. In the same way, it would need to be changed and linked to fake parties, much more closely than media regulation, the system of plural recommendation. This alone, the blind can see that the hotbed of fraud is the hotbed, so small parties and fake parties can claim candidates from different directories, even from larger parties, without real social support. [[14.40]] And then, in particular, no one can verify that if the data meets the reality - because the law allows multiple recommendations - whether or not the particular voter has recommended the candidate. But then, when someone gives more than 20,000 recommendations and then gets 1500 votes, it is quite clear that behind those recommendations there was no actual support. So if we want to filter out the start of the fake parties, which we must do not only from a financing point of view, but also from the point of view of the enforcement of democracy and the will of the people, then it is our duty to prevent them from starting by having actual recommendations and real support in order to start the elections. Fidesz can also walk into its own trap if we think of the unlawfulness of the constituency borders, as the number of inhabitants will change so much in some smaller counties that will result in the fundamental illegality of the constituency borders. It may already be in 2018, but in 2022 it is very likely that if these trends, which have occurred in recent years, then there will be constituencies, both in Tolna County and in Somogy County, which will depart from the limits laid down in the Fundamental Law. Another issue I would like to discuss is the possibility of voting for Hungarians across borders and the possibility of voting for Hungarians working abroad. After all, this is as much a problem both for the campaign and for the election, for the electoral rule as these fake parties do. The fact that Hungarians across the border can cast votes instead of even dead people, this is an amazing regulation, for which there is no precedent anywhere in the world, and it makes it absolutely clear that this can also be a hotbed for fraud, because the fact that we do not check registration before every election, I think it is quite amazing and it gives us the opportunity to cast votes instead of others. If we really want the Hungarian Parliament to be national, as President László Kövér said, for example, in a sublime way, we should not only extend our hand to Hungarians working abroad, but also to Hungarians working abroad. But by saying that they should be able to cancel their Hungarian address and then they will be able to vote in a letter, this does not connect them to Hungary, but rather by removing a connection to Hungary and removing them from Hungary, it will cut a bond by eliminating their Hungarian address. It would be much easier if you said that we would consider - together, although I do not know if this can be understood in the electoral legislation for you - the possibility of electronic voting, because in Estonia, even in the 2009 European Parliament elections, one of the possible voting methods was electronic voting, as agreed by the European Union, mutatis mutandis. As an additional option in Estonia, therefore, it was possible and a legitimate election was made in 2009 with electronic voting possible for voters. In a country where around 600,000 people work abroad, migrated abroad, yes, it would be important for the 21st century to be able to work abroad. Let us use this achievement of the century, and let us also make it possible to vote electronically. Overall, we agree with the principle of the proposal. Our previous proposal included 2 percent. A final decision has not yet been taken to support the proposal, which will be taken later, but of course we agree with the groundwork. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-31-73	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-10-31-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP will decide, in the light of the final text, whether it supports the proposal, but I would like to point out that we are discussing the amendment of a law, even in its title, since the law on transparency in the election of Members of Parliament, after rejecting the amendments to this proposal without exception, did nothing. In fact, since the 2014 elections, the fundamental regulatory error that everyone has seen since the campaign support law is that state aid to the party list is a gift to fake parties without any electoral support. Even so, the fact that, only four months before the elections, the case will be presented to Parliament as a stand-alone proposal, in an ideal world, could also be attributed to the fact that the parties of government have so far sought a broader consensus on voting rights issues with the opposition. However, the adoption of poster regulation by a simple majority circumventing party law has shown that there is no need for consensus in the governing parties as regards the basic rules of political competition, even if they are interested in solving certain problems themselves. But not only can the taste of our mouth be bitter about this delayed proposal, but also because it is not a legislative error based on a professional error, but one of the unilateral, cold decisions taken by the ruling parties in 2013. The 2014 fake party invasion was not a side effect of the law, but was the desired result of the regulation itself. However, the real aim of the regulation, as in the case of electoral amendments that undermine the proportionality of the electoral system or in the case of laws that transform the poster market in this cycle, was to improve the parties' choices by all means and to gain benefits that do not result from electoral subsidies. The submission and negotiation of this proposal is particularly fraudulent, following such precedents. I do not think that, in a democracy, it would otherwise be abnormal for government parties to submit their electoral position to how to increase their chances of remaining in power. However, I believe that this has the limits given by democratic operation, which Fidesz had already passed in 2013. Even if we had only looked at the amendments that were absolutely necessary for the lawful conduct of the next election, Parliament would have been required to legitimise at least a number of far greater issues in this term. Of these, the LMP has repeatedly proposed to ensure the non-discriminatory voting of foreign voters by letter and to update the register of letter voters during the cycle. Once again, the LMP will decide in the light of the final text, and thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-31-75	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak to independent representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Konya. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-31-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, So far, we have only found that there is a problem with the long and medium-term memory of my pro-government colleagues, but at the same time it seems that their short-term memory is getting worse as the elections approach. My colleague Gergely Gulyás said at the beginning of the month that six months before the elections, we will not touch the electoral law system. [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: I didn't say that.]] [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: I didn't say that.]] [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: I didn't say that.]] When the Common Country Movement submitted a complex amendment proposal prepared by opposition parties and this was on the agenda, you said so at a residential forum, my fellow Member. (Dr. Gergely Gulyás: I didn't say that.) He said that six months before the election, we wouldn't touch it, because it could cause uncertainty in the electorate. (Dr. Gergely Gulyás: I didn't say that.) Well, now they're causing uncertainty in fake parties. [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: For the fake party.]] For the fake parties, that's right. [[General noise, interruptions.]]
u2017-10-31-77	Mr. Team Leader, I'll give you the floor. Just ask.
u2017-10-31-78	However, at least they acknowledged that you were responsible for everything, because in 2013, when this law was passed, there were a number of opposition proposals and look into it, even though I was not a member of the benches at the time, but there were many opposition proposals to prevent the start of the fake parties, yes, tighten up this law compared to the proposal you tabled, which you did not deliberately listen to. It is quite clear that your intention was to start as many parties as possible in this election, thereby weakening the power of the opposition and ensuring your election victory. There is no better proof that in 2014 everyone saw that fake parties started, in 2014 and 15 it was revealed that these fake parties could not collect this money. [[14.50]] What are we writing now? 31 October 2017. Why didn't you bring this bill to Parliament first anyway? And don't argue that opposition representatives didn't support it. The opposition representatives would have supported it if they had brought it in complexly and discussed all the injustices in substance that, by the way, you had unilaterally passed a electoral law. In a normal democracy, even though there is a two-thirds majority of a party, the electoral law is changed by consensus in general, in consultation with the opposition parties, not alone, abusing their position of power. I think that everything that my fellow Members have mentioned as a problem, or the problem of multiple recommendations, if they have already brought it here, why have they not brought such things here? This is clearly the basis, the alpha and the omega of the fact that the fake parties can start. If there were no possibility of a multiple recommendation, then obviously those conscious voters who, in any way, want to intervene in the country's decisions would vote for a party, which they would like to represent in Parliament. This multiple choice or the possibility of a recommendation proves exactly what you're doing in the country, and I've been there before the elections and even after the elections, that these fake parties are going into a village in a pub, saying that we'll pay you a shot if you sign the recommendation and you can make millions from here on out. Billions went out of the state's pocket because you wanted to weaken opposition parties in the 2014 elections, by the way. Now it looks like they're sitting in the saddle, and now they're looking at the idea that maybe we shouldn't throw this money out of the state register, that's good for something else. By the way, I am particularly pleased that I hope that you and Lőrinc Mészáros will not have what we save on this. Which is also a problem, and I think that one of the biggest problems is the restriction of electoral law, the possibility of voting for Hungarians living and working abroad. While we have given Hungarians across the border the opportunity to vote, I think that they should be second-class citizens, and not give them the same opportunities to vote by letter or electronically as Hungarians living across the border, this, I think, is your shame and shame until they change this law, and I think that this is where they would have had the opportunity to bring in this opportunity, by the way, together with this amendment. Speaking specifically of their amendment to the law, I could recommend that Mr Gergely Gulyás pay attention to your colleague. [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás consults with Dr. Robert Répássy.]] If you do not talk, it is written in the law amendment that the parties will name the governing body that otherwise assumes financial responsibility if they cannot repay the money. According to the law - and by the way, if you have formed or led a party, you know very well - the court and court records must record the senior officials or the senior officials of the parties who are registered and present in the court. I think that in order not to open any more loopholes, and not to be about the fact that the parties will name the governing body that otherwise takes financial responsibility, because the fake parties will find the loophole again to create a governing body that will be named, and in this management body, where appropriate, homeless people will be elected, and we can run for our money in the same way, it would be advisable in this amendment of the law, if they really want to collect this money from the fake parties, to name the full responsibility of the people who otherwise appear in the court register as senior officials - point. And then you don't have to smear or stir this whole thing around here anymore. I think that their entire electoral system, which has been set up unilaterally, is neither fair nor proportionate, yet as a responsible citizen, I think that every opportunity and every amendment aimed at introducing, by the way, some kind of rigour with taxpayers' money and public money management, or at all preventing unnecessary spending from taking place, I myself, as an independent opposition representative, if I do not change this proposal in a worse direction, I will vote in favour of it, and I will give my support to have two thirds of them for the amendment, while at the same time the Socialist Party, my fellow Member, Barándy, is proposing to raise the threshold to one percent, I agree. I would like it if you would accept the proposal of Mr Barándy, however, if you do not accept it, I can support it, because I think that every single tax-paying money that could be used for better purposes, and if we can grasp that there is otherwise abuse of public funds, I will always support it. Thank you.
u2017-10-31-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they are applying for a two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Then it is time for the speeches by the Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-10-31-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Many times, one marvels at the events that take place between the walls of Parliament. Why am I really starting with this? Because I think about the period before the 2014 elections that marked Fidesz's behaviour in this particular case, not in its complexity with regard to the electoral law, but in this particular case that affected the business parties. The business parties are now talking about making it impossible, and by their tacitness, not by doing so, they have expressed and confirmed that a multitude of business parties have appeared and distorted the system, and have consumed budget resources, not least, or little: HUF 3500 million. 3,500 million forints! This money could have been used on very different surfaces. I must also add that the argument system with which you come is that we need a level of seriousness threshold, or my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, if I recall correctly, said that it is necessary to incorporate a kind of risk factor, I understand, even to say that it is logical in this sense. What I don't understand is that four years ago, when the opposition made a unanimous position on the same issue, and in fact fought to prevent everything that was foreseeable to happen, where you were, what you did, why you didn't speak on these issues, why you didn't have a position, why you didn't have an attitude, or rather I say why you didn't feel the way you were supposed to let these distorted situations, the multitude of business parties be called to life, so that you could have a party that was national - on a national scale! - With 2,000 votes, you can take 200 million forints of public money. In other words, one vote meant a hundred thousand HUF of money exports from the budget, from the common register. Don't you feel that you have a huge responsibility in this regard? Don't you feel that your political intentions, the lawsuit at that time, are in your best interests or your perceived interests, the decision that was taken at that time, are practically responsible for you? And after about four years of waking up, I don't think he deserves any praise. So I cannot say that, but it is good that Fidesz now believes that... I can only say that everything that was said four years ago on the opposition side by the various political forces unfortunately proved to be true, that the elections took place according to it, and that it was looted, I can say with a calm spirit, the budget, in the sense that 3,500 million forints were exported from the budget. Now it is said that a party list will have a repayment obligation based on campaign support if half a percentage is not reached by this party support on the list. [[15.00]] In the foregoing, my fellow Member Kónya also said that the joint and several responsibilities of the members of the governing bodies have been expressed on this issue and that this should be not only the case, but it would also be worth taking into account liability based on court records, so that it is not possible to find another way around which virtually distorted situations are brought to life again. I also understand the intention of the State Audit Office of State to conduct investigations in this regard within one year after the elections, i.e. to examine what happened, how the aid was used after the checks. All right, I don't have a problem with that. What I'm basically having trouble with is this. The most fundamental thing is that we are not going to have a complex amendment to the electoral law. The most fundamental thing is that right now, we're just picking up or picking up a crumb from this story, and they don't want to deal with it in its complexity. Think of those who are abroad, who are driven away from Hungary, who have a Hungarian address, and who work outside Europe, but most of them work in different countries of Europe for their own livelihood and for their families. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Think about the situation in which these people can vote today, how and in what form. You know, it's very clear to you that the voting opportunities at embassies are practically limiting people. It is no coincidence what my fellow Member, Barándy, said as a keynote speaker: there were not 30,000 out of a circle with more than 500,000 voting opportunities, there were virtually the number of those who voted, cast their votes; it represents a 5 per cent share within the whole. It is not a coincidence, because they would have had to travel 300 kilometers in the country if they had to cast their votes, or they would have had to travel home to Hungary, if, say, the cost of flying had been financed by the government, there might have been a greater willingness to vote. But I don't want to set up nonsense categories. I am saying that simply what was given to Hungarian citizens abroad should have been guaranteed, and that is the possibility of voting in the letter. Of course, the torso that exists today in foreign elections in relation to registration, that dead souls may vote, where appropriate, do not wish to eliminate it, do not wish to change it, do not wish to delete it from the system. In English, what I'm trying to say is that the practicality of the thinking that you have just made up, I can even say that I understand. If I want to be very familiar with your vision, I can even say that I welcome something, a crumb from all of this, I mean, the amendment concerning the complex electoral law, but I would like to say at the end of the sentence that, my fellow Members, this is incredibly few. There should be much more to this initiative today. There's so much more to it. It's not just about the business parties, it's not just about the responsibility you committed four years ago with this country, using public funds. No, it's a lot more than that. This story also tells us that our election system is completely distorted today. Perhaps for a thought or two, there was a question of winning compensation. But think about the distortion that this has meant for you, for your benefit, in terms of the mandates that you can get on the list. Isn't this the abuse of power that you have brought to life in this regard? The fact that they have gained 5-6-7 seats on the list more than the opposition could have obtained is what you have kidnapped by implementing such regulatory frameworks. Or think about the algorithms that have been used to shape the boundaries of each constituency. If I were not to talk about parliamentary electoral boundaries, but rather overextend myself to local governments, for example, I know an example where the various stairwells of a ten-storey ten-storey ten-storey tenements are situated in different constituencies. This process is abnormal, only in your political interests. Shouldn't we consider, in line with the principle of proportionality, how this should work? Or what does the abolition of the second round bring, what does it mean? I don't even want to go into what's going on on the media or advertising platforms in the months before the election. But you are absolutely right, my fellow Member, when you say that not only during election periods, but you are in complete control of the cycle, and you want to dominate almost all the media. This is also intended to create a situation where there is almost no other opinion or opinion in the country than yours. Don't you think that's a massive abuse of power? The point is, therefore, that it would be more appropriate to negotiate it between Parliament's walls today, or it would have been appropriate in the previous period, which would be related to the amendment of the complex electoral law; precisely so that those contradictions, those torsos can be weeded out, precisely so that proportionality can be ensured, precisely in order to achieve an outcome in the parliamentary horseshoe, taking into account the submission of votes on the basis of the electoral will. The fact is that in this regard, as regards the electoral law, we have opened the doors of thought much more widely in our co-thinking with the Common Country Movement. Its element in this regard can be adapted to the proposal for an amendment to the law that is before the House today. This fits into the scale of 0.5 per cent you set, for which the result of this joint reflection is the determination of the threshold of 1 per cent. This amendment, as our lead speaker Gergely Bárándy said, will be submitted by the Hungarian Socialist Party and we look forward to their relationship with interest and curiosity. But once again, to me, the resolution of this issue alone, the inability of business parties, the introduction of a serious threshold or the risk situation mentioned by my fellow Member, Répássy, is not enough to bring to life. That's not enough. Here it would be the complex solution, the full overview, the redirecting of the distorted electoral law into a normal way, which could be a suitable and good solution. Secretary of State Völner, when you spoke about the security of the election, you said a complex thought as an attitude, if I recall correctly. [[Dr. Pál Völner: His Cleanness!]] Excuse me? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Cleanliness!]] Yeah, he was talking about the security of the election. I think that this is justified. In order to achieve this, strengthening the security of the election, it would be possible to achieve a situation that would really serve the issue of proportionality, not by taking out a single element, but through a complex overview and a necessary, multi-component amendment. Overall, I would therefore like to say that this legislative amendment proposal is not enough for me, even if I consider it appropriate, but rather it would be good for Parliament to amend the complex electoral law. Thank you very much. [[15.10]]
u2017-10-31-81	Thank you very much, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Gergely Gulyás.
u2017-10-31-82	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. In accordance with the rules of civility in Parliament, I wanted to listen to the lead speakership, because we are both present, presenters, and then I had the hope that, after the proposal is short enough, it could be short enough and I can respond to it as the rapporteur at the very end, but after I have to go, I would now respond to what has been said, and then my colleague, Róbert Répássy, will remain, and he will respond to everything else. First of all, I am pleased that, at the time, the infinitely liberal sitting of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which I also used, is also a practice at the plenary session of Parliament. This is why my fellow Members have been able to say 90% of their speeches, since they have nothing to do with the amendment proposal or the law that is affected by the amendment proposal. So if I limit myself to those sentences - there were not more than ten in all the speeches - which touched on the proposal that was tabled, then, if I understand correctly, my fellow Members will consider supporting it. Mr Kónya, if the proposal remains so, he considers it eligible, the Hungarian Socialist Party has a proposal that amends the half-percent to 1 per cent, and Jobbik has not yet decided whether to change its previous position or to stick to it and support the law, as the Member has said, they have previously proposed the same thing, but is not afraid, but with a 2 per cent difference. I can say that we have looked at the parliamentary election results, the difference between half and 1 percent, but even between half and 2 percent is of no importance. There was only one case during the last elections - my fellow Member, if you listen to it, you may consider whether I am even right - in the case of the Labour Party, where the Labour Party reached 0.57 or 0.58 percent, so it was a party, the Labour Party, for whom this change would mean something, but in most cases it would have meant nothing, so it would have meant nothing of the last three elections twice. But I have no objection in principle to 1%, and if my fellow Member submits it, the Fidesz faction will make a decision on this. I have a good heart to support a one-percent proposal. However, since everything has been mentioned here in the last hour and a half, which concerns the electoral system, I would also like to respond briefly to what has been said, even assuming that the debate will continue. I would like to state that if more than 50 percent of voters did not vote for someone, then the majority wanted to replace them, then I would like to say that today Europe may not have a government with one exception where the majority would not have wanted to replace the Prime Minister in the election that led to it becoming Prime Minister. I think it's worth considering the seriousness of these allegations. What I can tell you is that Fidesz achieved a result in the 2014 elections with only one exception, which was also Fidesz in 2010, never a single party, could not achieve in one election since 1990. It is possible to argue that this is a good or a bad result, and we are proud of it for our part, and we believe that opposition parties that are criticising the electoral system would not be ashamed of this result. My second point is that there have been elections from 1990 to 2010, and that electoral system has not brought any more proportionate results than the current, or even more disproportionate, results. And interestingly, the Hungarian Socialist Party is concerned here about the disproportionateness, which was one of the biggest beneficiaries of this disproportion, with a 32-33 percent result in 54 percent of the mandates, as it was in 1994. But if we go back in time, it was even more disproportionate in 1990 that the Hungarian Democratic Forum obtained 42 percent of the mandates by 24.5 percent. I would like to point out that in the previous electoral system, obviously due to a different party structure, but that still in the previous electoral system, there were significantly more disproportionate election results than last time. And if someone talks about compensation, don't just talk about winning compensation, because it would still be a mixed system if there were no compensation for losses, and there would be 106 single mandate constituencies and 93 lists. In this case, Fidesz would have gained five more mandates. There has been a mixed electoral system in Hungary since 1990, and we have not fundamentally changed that, and we have taken a small step - all other political opinions in this regard, disguised as scientific - towards government stability, at the expense of proportionality. But it was a very small step, and we maintained the mixed system of choice. Without clear categories in cross-border cases, everyone raises different standards. I would like to reiterate, not trusting that whatever the outcome of this call for attention will be, but the category of Hungarians from across borders is a single category - not from a national political point of view, but from a electoral point of view, but also from a national political point of view - and Hungarians from across the border include Hungarians from Cluj and Hungarians from London, and the same rules apply to both. So if someone has lived in London because they have lived there for five years or six years - I would add that almost every EU Member State's legislation requires the establishment of their residence - and they are not in Hungary, then we have allowed them to vote by letter. It wasn't possible before. It's a shame to shake anyone's head, it wasn't possible before. Today, if you have an address in London and you do not have an address in Hungary, you can vote in a letter. And the rest of it, we didn't change anything. On the other hand, if someone is in Hungary and is abroad on the day of the election, he can vote according to the same rules as during the period of the Socialist Party's government and after the former Fidesz administration, when we made it possible to vote abroad for the first time, because previously it was not possible to vote abroad on the day of the election. In this sense, the exercise of suffrage has only increased. And once again, the rules of the Member States generally lay down the obligation to establish a place of residence for three months, six months and twelve months at the latest. So those who have been working abroad for years should have a place of residence not in Hungary, but abroad. In addition, there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that I do not know if my fellow Members know, but it was celebrated at the time, and this is the decision of the Constitutional Court when the domestic registration was annulled. This makes it clear that there are two distinct homogeneous groups. One homogeneous group is the Hungarian resident and the other homogeneous group is the Hungarian citizens who are not resident in Hungary. It is necessary to lay down uniform rules with regard to them. In Hungarian, if someone wants to introduce - despite shaking my fellow Member Szávay's head, this is what is in the judgment - so if someone wants to introduce a vote in the letter to those residing in Hungary, then 8 million voters should be allowed to do so, otherwise we will make a distinction within the homogeneous group. We wouldn't want that, and I don't think you would either, because then the accusations that would be made against each other in the poisoned atmosphere of Hungarian internal politics are of no interest to either of us, nor to the whole of the country. So I hope, or I hope not, because I do not think they understand what I am saying, but they will continue to repeat it again and again, I would like to make it clear once again that we have not limited anyone's right to participate in any election, and in the context of the procedure, we have only made it possible, which, in the past, was not possible for those who have their place of residence abroad and not in Hungary, regardless of whether this is in Cluj, London, Los Angeles or Washington, to vote in a letter. And I will add it quietly - Ferenc Gyurcsány is not here now - that the kind of campaign that is being launched against Hungarians who do not reside in Hungary is frivolous, because I do not understand that if you want to withdraw the right to vote from half of them, then why would you not want to withdraw from the other half? Moreover, you do not talk about this either, and we have made a substantive difference, and this substantive difference is that anyone who does not have a permanent residence in Hungary cannot vote for the individual candidate, so about 40 percent of the value of full suffrage is the value of his vote. I think that this Hungarian society, in view of its attitude to a given issue, is a fair compromise offer, so we appreciated that, against Ferenc Gyurcsány, whose particular relationship with the Hungarian nation after 5 December 2004, I do not think it is necessary to explain to people of good sense, we appreciated that the other parties accepted this question, that we did not seek to fully enforce the power aspects in this, because it is obvious that if the votes of Hungarians living beyond the borders would have led to more mandates, it would have been much more favourable for Fidesz. So I think it is worth appreciating, and the compromise that appeared to be at least tacit in this case, to be maintained. Finally, of course, although this seems to surprise you, let us not rule out the possibility that in a debate you are not us, but you are right. The situation in 2013 is, and I said it with sufficient self-criticism, so I do not say that it is impossible to read into our heads, but it is not necessarily correct, I think it was a clear position that we imposed a repayment obligation on individual candidates below 2 per cent, because it is quite easy to collect 500 or 750 recommendations in addition to the plural recommendation. [[15.20]] However, we thought that we said that I said it publicly several times, and I said it, too - that is why we did not support your amendment proposal in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the time - that national appearance, collection of signatures in nine counties and in the capital, in at least 27 constituencies, is a limit that is an automatic filter and does not give rise to serious abuses in the campaign funding system. We were wrong about this, and the letter from the President of the State Audit Office, which the Speaker sent to every group leader last week, clearly states that there are criminal proceedings in this case, but this is about the future. So you can triumulate on this, we take note of that, we wish you further success in the political debates, but this is about the future, so we must decide whether we will allow it or not for the future. Why now? First of all, I would like to inform my fellow Member Konya that I have made it very clear, because I knew that this proposal will be tabled. I said that a fundamental change to the voting rights system should not be made before the election, so I said at the Fidesz press conference and at a forum in Kipest, whichever my fellow Member read, this is the literal text. This does not fundamentally affect suffrage, which precludes only abuse. Moreover, we did not just think about it, but I also said this in my first speech, but it was quite precisely last year, and in February this year, before the elections, there was much more than a five-party consultation. It is a pity that, despite his promise, Jobbik and the LMP present there did not honour us with the deadline they promised, and the Hungarian Socialist Party imposed conditions that we could not accept, so we did not submit the proposal at the time. I have also said once that, as part of the poster law, you are all here, as well as you, my fellow Member Konya, voted against this opportunity, which means you voted against this amendment to enter into force already in June. I note only in brackets and quietly to my fellow Member, Barándy, that in this context you also voted against what would have introduced a total government ban on advertising during the campaign period. We voted in favour of this, and you voted against it, so it is not the most elegant, in my opinion, to take account of this. Finally, after a substantial observation, we have also considered this and are open to all amendments, but at the moment we have found nothing better: there is no sign of the governing body, no governing body is marked in the court register. I have now contacted the register of the Hungarian Socialist Party, where three persons are entitled to sign: Vice-President Gőgös, our fellow Member Tobias and Gyula Molnár, I do not know whether together or separately, but no management body is indicated. That's why we couldn't think of anything better, but if someone has a better idea, submit it, we're open to it, rather than the party declaring its governing body, so that there won't be a debate later, because there's a different structure for different parties. It is a purely legal, professional question, I say once again, if anyone has a better proposal, I am available, but we can't do better than to name the governing body, because there is, where there is an election, there is a Presidency, there is one where there is a completely overgrowth of party democracy, there are hardly any leading bodies, so different parties have different practices. I therefore call on my fellow Members to consider this not a political issue, but a legal issue. Our aim is clear: we want it to be clear in this sense that the party's true governing body should take responsibility. Finally, I would like to add one more sentence to what has been said: this is that I do not think the plural recommendation is a problem of any kind, the plural recommendation is a problem for as long as the campaign funding system could be abused. So if this loophole is closed or closed together here, then this will not be a problem in practice. By the way, if parties want to run and put forward candidates, if this does not lead to financial gain, all of us who believe in democracy can only wish us good luck. Thank you again for your supporting opinions, and I sincerely hope that the two-thirds law will be adopted by Parliament in order to eliminate these abuses. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Gergely Gulyás. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, for two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-10-31-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only if Gergely Gulyás has two more minutes of patience, then... [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: Yes.]] Thank you very much. You just said you had to leave. I would like to ask you whether you really believe that it is okay that only 5 percent of people who work abroad are elected because of their own intentions; it is obviously not because they think that they do not want to or only so many people want to participate, but because of the fact that the marginal conditions are designed to be such that this is the result. So I do not think that encouraging him to move abroad, have a foreign address and have no address in Hungary would solve this question. I think it should not be achieved that, in addition to giving up existing domestic addresses, the birth of foreign addresses brings the result, that not their 5 percent, but their 25 percent, or their 45 percent, or their 62 percent, should participate in the election, but that a different solution should be found. Maybe I'm trying to give you a lifelike example of what the difference is. Let's say the difference is that ten years ago, a fraction of Hungary in Europe or anywhere in the world was a man who worked outside, 40-50 thousand people, now more than 600 thousand people. There is a difference of magnitude between the two rates, which I think is worth taking into account in terms of regulation, and I do not, once again, stress the need to give up someone's home address and have to have a home address in another country to vote under the same conditions as Hungarians across the border. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-31-85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr. Gergely Gulyás.
u2017-10-31-86	Thank you very much. Having addressed a question directly to me by my fellow Member, I would like to answer it according to the rules of courtesy. The fact is that according to the situation, I mean, according to the situation in the labour market, the regulation has changed in the direction my fellow Member requests. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Because until 2014, of course, you did not have any opportunity to vote in a letter, and now it is possible to do so everywhere in the world. I don't think that can be classified differently according to the basic rules of logic, only as the right and the right step in this direction. I understand how many people work abroad: I understand that the opposition is talking about 600 thousand people, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office has only estimates, but I believe them more than the opposition, and they are talking about 400 thousand people. In addition, in order to share some good news with my fellow Members here under the liberally-acquired house rules, I would like to tell you that last year, if we consider those coming back to Hungary from the West and those coming into Hungary from across the border, their combined number was more than the number of people who went out, which has never been so in the last decade. So for the first time, more Hungarians came and returned to Hungary than they had gone. I would also like this good news to be taken into account in the debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker is Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz.
u2017-10-31-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There was no doubt in my mind that, even if there were only a slight link to the electoral law, in the case of a bill tabled, the full electoral law would be discussed here in the House. I find it particularly positive that my faction has not been disavowed from this debate today, specifically with the assistance of the faction leader, there have been manifestations of a kind that apply to the electoral law itself. At the same time, I must also point out that, since the world, the electoral law in force, those in the minority, and those who run for the next election with little hope, are always concerned and doubtful. One of the most powerful objections of the opposition to the current electoral law is that it is firmly down, in their view, towards Fidesz, in fact, towards the winner. I believe that when the opposition keeps saying this, it is very strongly expressing that it does not see a chance to win the election, otherwise it should consider the rules of the electoral law that favour the winner. [[István Szávay: Not everyone starts from themselves!]] This is not unique in Europe, and I must even say that in most countries where there is stable governance, the electoral law favours the winner to a greater and lesser extent. I think it is clear here in our case that a fundamental change to the electoral law should now take place - now I do not say a month, because they mean less time every day -. [[15.30]] So I share the position that you said earlier, that this can no longer be timely, and I think that, by the time we finish the debate, there is once again a day less chance that such a change can be made. But it is right, and I think that what the Christian Democratic lead speaker, János Harghitai, said, namely that we are open, that we should be open, that, in the case of the proposed bill, we should be able to make a minor or greater change that clarifies it, and which may, to a greater extent, preclude the functioning of the fake parties, should not be rejected from their hips, should be dealt with, I believe that it should be discussed, and if they are suitable, it should be accepted. Why do I say that? When we discussed this in 2013 - I was still a member of that committee - I expressed strong reservations about whether the deterrent force that could be expected was sufficient, which was incorporated into the law. I have to say that there was a very strong pressure that had to be allowed, namely civil society organisations, which in large numbers indicated that they would like to become a party, but they do not see the conditions for them to be able to perform in some way in the election, because if nothing else, we have to accept that there is no doubt that there are three things that we need to be strong enough to succeed in an election, and one part of that is money. If the money is completely missing, then it is hopeless for a civil society organization to turn into a party and start. Therefore, I think it was a proper opening when we said that it was worth opening in this direction. That's another question, I'd like to say once again whether we've measured the consequences correctly. I think that they are too good faith - perhaps I should call ourselves good faith - we were in the sense that perhaps the built-in brakes are sufficient, perhaps integrity still prevails in the field of politics, and, therefore, perhaps such a very large number of parties that we rightly call a fake party will not be formed. Dear House, I think that the proposal is very positive and good in its kind, so - and this is the other thing that I have asked for - the positions that want to link the support of this proposal with a broader amendment of the electoral law are rather uncredited. I'm sorry, but I can't do that if I want to put some right and good sanctions in the penal code, I'm saying that I won't accept this unless I accept the other one and the third one and the fourth one. This is pointless, and I have to say that it is nothing more than support for the maintenance of a phony existence. I suggest to the opposition that you consider whether it is possible to go this far, or whether it is indeed necessary to consider supporting a sensible and improving proposal. I share that I would say once again what János Hargitai did not exactly say here, but I think he did suggest this: I think that at half a percent, the one percent is a more powerful deterrent. Does that mean anything? It was a good example, as the leader of the group said, that there was a party in such a situation, but I think that it is easy for these fake parties to learn how to achieve half a percentage in the next stage, even for more people and for more cooperation, so, once again, to live and to prevail. Therefore, this is also worth considering. Overall, I consider the proposal to be particularly useful and forward-looking for my part, and I can only hope that the opposition will not say, out of some kind of perfidious consideration, that I do not support it because it is. My apologies, after all, I have to conclude that, as a last thought, they should always consider what I said at the beginning: perhaps the course is set in the direction of the winner in order to become a country that can be governed, in order to form a government, to have stable governance in the country - but not for Fidesz, but specifically for the winner! You try to win, and if you succeed, this field will fall! I think that this attempt might be premature. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-89	Thank you, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. The next speaker is Mr István Szávay, notary, Jobbik.
u2017-10-31-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I am sorry that Congressman Gulyás has left because he has provoked me to speak for many reasons. I would now like to move past the fact that, at the beginning of his 13-minute speech, he whipped the opposition, for which only a few sentences were intended for the specific subject of the proposal, and then he himself spoke 12.5 minutes on other issues. But these are important questions to come here, and I do not fully agree with my fellow Member, Turi, because this is not only about other proposals being made, Mr President, but also about the fact that you and Fidesz are talking about the purity and democratism of the election, and I do not know what sublime aspects you are acting on when you are bringing this one little detail rule to the House. But let me be very clear. We don't have any preemptive trust or good intentions towards you when you bring in any law on electoral or electoral proceedings, because in the last seven years, it's always been brought in because of some interest, some intention, some kind of sanda's intention. Obviously, it is no coincidence that this proposal is here and that this proposal is on its own. If you were really driven by the intention of making elections clean, democratism, of creating equal opportunities for you, then on the one hand, not six months before the elections, and on the other hand, you would not raise such a small question, which is important in itself, and I do not dispute that, but we could also discuss a number of other proposals on the security of elections. Thirdly, what would have happened then, yes, was that much earlier, before several times, the elections could have been discussed on the basis of a joint, preliminary five-party agreement on how the electoral law could be amended either in terms of the method of election or in terms of issues that might have an impact on the outcome of the election, so they concern certain rules, or issues that could have an impact on which party's mandate to acquire, or how many mandates, but we could have talked about whether to look at the elections from a truly security point of view. Several Members have said it here, but let me say it very clearly again: if there is a security gap in the elections, it is precisely that the votes of those who have died from outside Hungarians can be abused. Mr. Secretary, why doesn't that bother you? Why does it not bother you that according to current regulations, if you register, you will receive the election package for ten years? Unfortunately, if a person dies either the next day or a week or two months after his registration, he will receive the package of letters for another ten years, because the Hungarian State does not know if a person died in Transylvania if the family does not report it. And it may happen, and in many cases, it has happened over the past few years that the family has not reported it. In many cases, he may not even have known about this obligation, and if there is a dead person in the family, then there is less concern for everyone than to run to the Hungarian state. Let us continue this story only for the record and eternity, as to exactly what kind of abuse is possible here. It is simply necessary to renew the registration so that someone will take part again in the vote for the next ten years. We will get there not so long, with a few elections later, that there will be 110-year-old voters in the register, because it can be done that if someone dies, they will receive a package of voting letters for ten years, which if one of the relatives sends back on their behalf on a case-by-case basis, the registration of the person will automatically be extended to ten years. You have made this rule clearly because it favours you among the Hungarians from abroad. And the reason why you exclude Hungarians travelling abroad - and only in practice, in principle not, in principle, but practically yes - is because they can only vote at foreign representations, because most of them are not your voters, because most of them have left Hungary because of you and under your governance. [[15.40]] There is some truth to what Gergely Gulyás said that there has never been a chance to vote from abroad, now we have it. It's really a change in that direction. But you're here on the basis of rules as to where your registered residence is. In fact, we should be looking at situations of life here, fellow Members. Because the life situation is that somewhere in Scotland, there are two young people who work in a workplace or live in a tenant. One of them came from Budapest and the other one came from, say, Cluj Napoca. One of them has to give up his permanent address at home, and the other one doesn't have to give up his permanent address at home to get his ballot in a package of letters. The youth from Cluj-Napoca who goes to work in Scotland gets his mail package at that address; and the young person who came from Budapest must travel to London, taking several hours' travel, costs, lost hours. That is why this system is not fair. And once again, we should start from a life situation here. What you are saying, and this is what my fellow Member Dóra Dúró referred to, is quite simply unacceptable to me, but Mr Répássy has also spoken about this at the Justice Committee meeting before, so that you can encourage Hungarian people to participate more easily in the elections, to cut a public-law link between themselves and Hungary. Cut another link that connects them to Hungary, give up their permanent address only so that the injustice can be eliminated so that a foreign Hungarian can get it from anywhere in the world, because not only do the Cluj-Napocas request their mail package not only in Cluj-Napoca, but also in Argentina or Australia, wherever in the world they can request their mail package without having to give up their permanent home address. A Hungarian can't do that. And there was a very serious slip in what Mr Gergely Gulyás said, not a slip, but rather a very important detail about the decision of the Constitutional Court; he even noted that I should not wave. It is true that the Constitutional Court did not say the unconstitutional nature of what we were just talking about, so that foreigners can request a package of letters, not those with a Hungarian address. However, in the Constitutional Court's decision, I cannot literally quote it now, I am sorry, but the point was that, in addition to not saying that there was an unconstitutionality, the Constitutional Court considers that the legislator also has the opportunity to establish other additional rules for those with permanent addresses in Hungary. So if you would be willing to vote in the letter, or even the possibility of electronic voting, if you had already adopted Article XXI. We're in the century, create it, if that's what you intend to do, then you can do it. And it is no longer possible to say what a difference it is, and then people in Hungary must also have the opportunity to vote on the letter; this is the most demagogue argument we hear from you, because that is not the case. Mr. Secretary. Then why is there no e-vote in Hungary in 2018? This could be done, it would be fair, it would affect everyone, it would end this debate from now on as to who can receive a package of letters. Oh, and by the way, it'd be a lot cheaper. It'd be a lot cheaper. I don't know if anyone calculated it, it would be worth looking into how much the Hungarian state costs to post so many mail packages throughout the world. How much easier it would be to solve this thing on the Internet! So when we talk about security issues, these questions could be put here. But you do not want to deal with these issues. And then another reaction to Congressman Gergely Gulyás, who here pointed out to us that we had not respected him from Jobbik, was something like that, and we didn't respect them with an answer. And that's just not true. Two things happened. At this meeting, where our fellow Member Dóra Dúró took part, we clearly indicated that we would not be able to support this package of proposals in this form. Done, period. This position was expressed there, and we should not have signalled anything in particular after that, since we made the position clear at this meeting. By the way, I published a statement on behalf of Jobbik myself, where I also indicated that we do not wish to touch such rules if you do not resolve the injustice already indicated in the vote on the letter. After all, one of the aims of Fidesz at the time was to make it even easier for Hungarians from abroad to participate in the elections. In this connection, you wanted to make further facilitations, for example, about what really was a problem with how your mother's name should be included. For this reason, there were many invalid votes, since not everyone entered their mother's name on the corresponding registration sheet in accordance with her official documents. So in this direction, towards a electoral target group, a electoral group in which the number of Fidesz voters strongly dominates, they would have made another relief. And they refused to deal with in any way, either with the extension of the letter vote, with the Internet vote, or with any other idea of how to actually facilitate the participation of 400 thousand people in the elections - fine, then only 400 thousand; not so much anyway, but fine, then only 400 thousand - for whom this option is given in principle, but with this right to vote in practice. Now, for one more thought, when I accused you of ulterior motives and shadyness here, allow me two things. At a time like this, especially when we touch small details about something big, we always have to ask what your true intentions are. And the rarest thing they say is what they say. There may be two things here that can be remembered in this matter before our eyes. First, it was in the interest of Fidesz in 2014 to put together a large block on the left, which you considered dangerous for the elections, to try to cut it down a little bit, to make as many small opposition parties as possible, to take votes away from the left. Well, now you can ask the same question, only the other way around. And now there's a bunch of big left-wing couples that don't even want to get together for God, and everyone's working with a tenth of their own couple and 0.5 percent. This law may be well suited to forge cooperation between smaller parties, where appropriate, and thus make the left at least a few more potent challengers than it really is. In this election, you are no longer afraid of the left, but of Jobbik. In this election, Jobbik will be your challenger, and in this election, it is in your interest to try to lower Jobbik so that they can cut Jobbik. In this election, it is in your interest to make the left seem more provocative than it is. And by the way, I don't believe in it, we can try and do an experiment, or maybe one of my fellow Members has already done it to raise this 0.5 percent to 1. Congressman Gulyás said that he could support such a proposal. I've got a lot of skepticism about this, but maybe it's a little too high. Here was the name of the Labour Party, which was able to jump this 0.5 percent on its own the other day. Therefore, the inability of the Labour Party is not particularly in the interest of Fidesz. Without stating anything specifically, I would like to draw attention to how the Labour Party has acted, let us say, in the last few months in the elections. That alone can be talkative. After all, if you look at the interim elections, say, going back a year and a half, just go up to Vaktas.hu, then we can see that the Labour Party has been able to start anywhere, from the smallest village in Szabolcs, to Zala, Salgótarján and Szeged, with a candidate, which is completely nonsense and totally absurd. The Labour Candidates somehow, somewhere in every small village and every small local area, from Józsefváros, I don't know where the elections were now [[Anita Beringes intervenes.]] Tata, Paks - thank you, Pakson was a Labour candidate, thank you for your help from the left here - the Labour Party had candidates everywhere. He was able to find some sort of mysterious, or possibly not so mysteriously, signatures for departure - and then it is worth looking at how many votes they received. [[15.50]] He was a single-digit vote everywhere, my fellow Members, a candidate for the Labour Party. Four plus three plus two plus one with these numbers. They couldn't have done this on their own. The fact that the Labour Party was able to start was helped by someone, these recommendations were helped by someone, for some political reason, by the Labour Party. Can I ask for an extension here, Mr. President? [[On the president's signal.]] Thank you very much. One last thing about security then, Mr Secretary of State or Congressman Répássy, and I ask you to answer that. What do you think of the way the DAHR complicates the election registration in Transylvania? There's this initiative called Minority SafePack, it's very important. The RMDSZ collects the signatures in such a way that it also declares the Hungarians of Transylvania that they want to register for the elections in Hungary, so that the RMDSZ obtains the data of Hungarian voters practically illegally and can mismanage them. By the way, the National Election Office said that a few days ago at the request of Transylvanian Transylvanian Transparent. Isn't that a security risk, Mr. Secretary, Congressman? I'm asking you to answer that. They won't, I know, but that's the question I asked. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-31-91	Thank you, Congressman Savay, notary. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2017-10-31-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, here are some of the points raised in the debate that deserve and need to be answered. I would like to say, first of all, to Mr Gergely Gulyás, Mr Group leader, that the idea that a liberal sitting is necessary here in order for us to be able to say these thoughts is not true. It is not true because anyone who knows the house rules, and he knows it very well, knows that the analysis of the legal environment and the social environment in the general debate of a bill is as much a part of the debate as the concrete bill, let us say, at the paragraph level. So what he would expect in this respect is true of the detailed debate phase and not of the general debate phase. If we are talking about a legislative amendment to an election, then there is an analysis of the voting rights system that is appropriate in a general debate. The other thing I would like to respond to is the 1% subsidy threshold, which we are proposing in our amending proposal. First of all, the principle of party support is that all parties have 1 percent. That would bring this bill into line with our proposal. On the other hand, as I pointed out, there was a very large number of party opposition talks organised by the Common Country Movement. Even Jobbik sent his suggestions to this movement. There, the signatories agreed to jointly submit a package of laws in connection with electoral legislation. It's a complex package of suggestions. I also think that once again I stress that this should be supported and accepted, but I must say that this proposal is a small part of this, but in our proposal, in our joint proposal, we have 1 percent. Therefore, in keeping with the joint agreement, the declaration signed by the seven parties, let us now channel this into the Parliament. Before anyone suspects any other ulterior motive, this is the reason, I would like to express it very strongly. And this is where I return to the conspiracy theory that Congressman Szávay here has told me about the left, that this will help or will not help, and who is the challenger. I would like to point out to my fellow Member that the opposition parties that are currently being negotiated have been measured by all public opinion researchers over 1 per cent for years, but mostly above 2 per cent. So that means that this 1 percent threshold in the world has nothing to do with what you said. I understand that this is part of Jobbik's policy now, but I think that if this topic has been opened, at least that much is worth mentioning. So I'd like to disband any assumptions about that. Not to say, this 1 percent is also proposed by the parties in the framework of the Common Country Movement, which you are thinking of; it is clearly not your own enemies. In other words, it is certain that this is not a malicious proposal on our part, but just to channel their proposal here now, who are not in Parliament now. In addition to 1 percent, there is one more argument, and I think we can see that parties that take themselves a little bit seriously, let me put it this way, and really want to play a role in public life, can easily jump this 1 percent threshold. Let me say, for example, the Momentum, which is a very new couple. They are measured immediately, stablely above 1 percent, but rather 2 percent is what is realistic to them. But I could say the PM, the Ensemble, any of these, they're stable over 1 percent. But I have to say that even as far as I know, the two-tailed Dog Party is actually being measured above 1 percent. Then I think that this 1 percent is an absolute realistic number, especially if we miss what the effect of this is. Well, it's about getting public funding from 150 million to 600 million forints for your campaign. So it's not that anyone - anyone can start - is the right to state aid that we are talking about here. To receive at least HUF 150 million in public money, a realistic social support is expected there, and we determine this as a percentage. As far as the election results are concerned, this is what my fellow Member Gulyás has spoken about, and partly so has Mr Turi-Kovács. So, no one said the problem was that there was a system of voting rights that distorted me. The problem is if you're very distorted. They say that even the great Russia has a limit. So, if the opposition, and let me put it this way, misunderstood, Mr Gulyás, Mr Group leader, if a governing party, alliance gets less votes overall than opposition parties, and so not a simple majority, there will be a two third majority in Parliament - and that is the point, two thirds majority here - the constitutional majority of the party has received less votes than the opposition, that is a problem, because that is already a distortion of the system that overrides the electoral will. And which is in force today and concerns the electoral procedure, campaign funding, that is the result. This is what the OSCE has pointed out that this is not right, so it is not right. I would also say to Mr Turi-Kovács, in this context, if he were here in the Chamber, that it was strange for small farmers to listen to one of them talk about and think about the parties' chances of winning elections. For example, they do not have 1 percent or half percent, so in this respect I think that this would require more modesty from my fellow Member Turi, in spite of all my respect. As far as the content is concerned, this electoral law is not in favour of the winner at all. No, ladies and gentlemen, this is in favour of Fidesz, and it is in favour of the government. The OSCE, which you may not dispute, is a competent organisation, its mission here has examined the domestic situation and has described this specifically. Let me give you an example, fellow Members. The fact that political advertising cannot be published in the parties, but government propaganda can fall from the media, which is the same as Fidesz's propaganda, is not in favour of the strongest party, but of the government, who is on the government, who can publish government ads for free, in the media for public money. And any other couple, whether strong or socially supported, can't do that. Or: the rewriting of the electoral districts was particularly favourable for Fidesz; not for the strongest party, Fidesz. This electoral law and electoral procedural law, the regulation of the media, are full of elements that specifically favour the current situation of Fidesz, and even favour the future situation of Fidesz. That's the problem! Because if it were to favor the strongest party at all times, that would be something to argue about. This disproportionate distortion is not good, but then we could talk about it. [[16.00]] But that is not the case here, it is that it is effective in favour of Fidesz as a political party, that is what the OSCE mission has shown, and that is what we are most critical of all. My fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, suggested that what motivated you about civilians was rather strange for me to listen. I'm sure you've overlooked the fact that civilians can't run for office under the law, only parties, so it's likely that your reasoning in this direction isn't entirely... - we can't take it as a factor, so to put it this way. I also deny that this was a matter of good faith. My fellow Members, who were Members at the time, and were here in the debate, remember exactly what we said in the debate on the electoral law, in the debate on the electoral procedural law, in the debate on campaign financing laws, that this is not good, that we have also said what certain provisions will become, we have also said what state aid will become, where will it lead, where will the plural recommendations lead, where will win compensation lead, and I can list it. It's not about good faith. You didn't have a shred of faith in you. They knew exactly what your authority was, and they changed the electoral law and the laws around it. After the election, all analysts have clearly shown that all the elements of the innovations have benefited you, all of them, not only in theory, but also in practice that they have proven to be beneficial to you. Talking about good faith here is incredibly stupid, I must say. As far as the votes across the border are concerned, yes, my fellow Members, we can say that it would be possible for the outside workers to sell their apartment here and only have their place of residence, and then they could vote in a letter. But what is reality? Why would these people sell their apartments at home? Why would they give up their place at home? [[István Szávay: They want to return home!]] They, I suppose, want to come home someday, but at least they want to keep their roots in their country. Are you trying to force them to give up everything in Hungary if they want to vote in a letter? What kind of thinking is that? Because what you have just said here is that, after all, they have the opportunity to liquidate everything here in Hungary and then establish their place of residence in London or Berlin, and then they can vote in a letter. Is that what they're suggesting? Instead of amending the legislation by the way, and saying that if you have an apartment here, but you live out there in a lifestyle, why shouldn't you vote in the same way as other Hungarians across the border who don't have, say, real estate? So, simply reality, rationalities, you do not take into account what is going on today. I think the number I've told you speaks for itself: 28,000 out of 500,000 people go to vote. How much is this? Five percent, six percent, right? And how much do you want to participate in an election? It's good to have 70-80 percent, isn't it? But even in the lowest cases in Hungary, it is well over 50 percent, so less than a tenth of it has gone to vote abroad. Then perhaps we can say that this system is wrong, and especially because it is no longer just one or two people, but hundreds of thousands, and it does not matter whether it is now Gergely Gulyás 400 thousand or the 600 thousand we have said, it is a significant number that would justify a change in the electoral law here. These are the people who have been driven out by your politics, and you are obviously afraid that you would not be voted for, and this is a critical mass that could affect up to 10-12 percent of the political situation in Hungary. [[To Dr. Pál Völner:]] Even if you smile at this, Mr. Secretary, I think that is still true and true. I'd be happy if you'd give me your opinion in the debate. [[István Szávay: He never does!]] But, of course, you never do, unfortunately, you are one of those who never do, we have already accepted this, or are forced to accept it; obviously, we have our opinions on this attitude not only for us, but also for voters. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, we are not talking about being here in good faith, and we are not talking about everything being okay here. Here, a very broad and comprehensive amendment would be necessary in order to have fair and fair elections again in Hungary. One of the elements of this is, therefore, what we are talking about and resenting is that we, in any case, are pouring and covering on you the problems that are still relevant on the same subject. I think the least they can do is put up with it. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-31-93	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Bárándy. I will ask if anyone still wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed and I would like to ask Mr Répássy, rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Répássy Robert nodds.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-31-94	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I will be brief, since my colleague, Mr Gergely Gulyás, has given a very detailed answer to what has been said here. First of all, I would like to thank you for your statements of support, and I trust that those who are still hesitating will support this bill later. Possible amendments will be considered. Indeed, this half-percent border is not carved in stone, although there were also pros and cons on this border. I think that, in a few days' time, when we have to decide on the amendment, we will consider this amendment. Most of the debate was actually about the electoral system. I do not want to go into this; I would simply like to point out to your attention - by the way, in any such debate - that in 2010, under the old electoral law, the 2010 opposition was able to obtain a mandate in two single constituencies, while in 2014 the opposition won ten individual districts in addition to the new rules, while the electoral districts... [[Dóra Dúró: The Fidesz has lost 600,000 votes!]] - the number of constituencies - let me finish, dear Congresswoman, I understand that you don't like to hear this, but let me finish. - so in 2014 the number of single constituencies decreased from 176 to 106, I hope I speak the numbers correctly, and yet the opposition won ten constituencies, and the opposition won two single constituencies even in interim elections. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy, you've done 600,000 worse!]] So, House, Honourable House, what would be less democratic in an amendment to the electoral law than that the opposition that rejected this amendment to the electoral law was the beneficiary of this amendment to the electoral law? [[Dora Doro Doro laughs. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Don't say that, Robby, don't say that. Oh, my God. Anita Beringes intervenes.]] The opposition has obtained several mandates, has been able to obtain several individual mandates, so it can be seen that in this electoral system individual constituencies can be won, in this electoral system you can also try to win elections. [[Dóra Dúró: 600,000 fewer people voted for you, that's why!]] You can also try to win the elections. So we are running for elections on the same terms from a voter's point of view. This may be a little helped by the fact that if the small parties, i.e. those parties which do not reach half a percent or one percent, now these parties are also carefully considering how serious their nomination is, this new bill that we have just presented to this House can help. Please support the proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-95	Thank you very much, Congressman Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending Act I of 2004 on sport follows. Presentation submitted by MEPs Gergely Tapolczai and Zsolt Nyitrai Fidesz T/18005. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Tapolczai, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.10]]
u2017-10-31-96	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal we have presented seeks to regulate the rules of the Olympic allowance. As is known, the so-called Olympic Championship allowance has existed since 1997, and it was adopted by the Parliament in April 1997, so there have been several amendments to the institution of the benefit in the last 20 years. First, the Olympic allowance was extended, so it was not only for gold medalists, but also for silver and bronze medalists over time. Later, this circle expanded further with coaches and widows became entitled to the benefit. Later, sports events also expanded with the paralympics and the deafly lympics. Later, on the basis of social justice, it was introduced that people with a criminal record or a trial had lost their right to annuity. Under current regulations, about 900 people currently receive Olympic benefits, including athletes, coaches, and widows. The latest amendment was in 2011, when the Parliament laid down stricter professional and sports professional conditions for entitlement to annuity. Thus, athletes who obtained medals in sports that were organised in a qualifying competition system could become entitled to an allowance, or at least eight nations in a given number began in the given competition. This regulation was laid down in such a way that it concerns procedures after 1 January 2012, which resulted in a situation, in particular in the case of team sports, where those who obtained a medal before 2012 and who submitted the application before 2012 were granted an allowance on the basis of the conditions at that time. But there were athletes, whether from the same team, primarily based on their age, who submitted the application after January 2012, but did not meet the post-2012 criteria. So it came from this situation that half of the team in one team received the Olympic allowance, and the other half of the team didn't. The proposal seeks to address these cases by imposing stricter conditions on sport events after 1 January 2012. Therefore, in the case of Olympics, Paralympics, Deaf Lympics, organised after 1 January 2012, the amendment adopted in 11 and the modified conditionality should apply. In this respect, the amendment does not affect many athletes, but it also settles the situation of disadvantaged athletes, so I ask the Parliament to support this amendment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-97	Thank you very much to Mr Gergely Tapolczai, rapporteur on the agenda. Now, if you wish to speak, I will give the floor to the representative of the government, Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó.
u2017-10-31-98	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The amendment to Act I of 2004 submitted by the Members of the European Parliament is set out in Act T/18005. The bill No.1 seeks to clarify the rules of the Olympic allowance, as we have heard from the Member. In April 1997 the National Assembly decided to introduce the institution of the Olympic allowance and as a state grant. The Olympic Games are accompanied by increased attention around the world, with millions worldwide following events in the Olympics thanks to television broadcasts and various Internet platforms. Participation in a competition, a podium or victory can make an athlete, a team, or even a country known worldwide. The national flag of the Olympics, the winning athlete at international level, the national anthem is published and heard in almost all countries of the world, and its value is invaluable. In the history of the Olympics, Hungary's athletes won 176 gold, 151 silver and 174 bronze medals together with the results of the Olympics' art competitions. Based on the medals obtained, our most successful sports in the summer Olympic sports are fencing, kayak canoes, swimming, pentathlon and water polo, and our figure skating sport is the most effective sport of winter Olympic sports. And we know that during the Olympics and the Paralympics, cheerleading becomes a common experience, discussion of competitions and matches, shared joy and success. Participation, fair play, honest standing, position or victory not only fills the athlete, but the whole country with pride. At the Olympic Games, athletes who become legends and role models have an extremely stimulating influence on society, the country's sports life, as hundreds of our children are interested in sports, choosing a sport, and adults are starting to play sports and live a rich lifestyle. The main aim of the institution of the Olympic allowance is to show recognition and appreciation of athletes achieving outstanding sports results. Since 97, the Hungarian state has wanted to support athletes and trainers who support and support them, the work of decades, the joy and pride of the country, by providing an equal amount and a fixed percentage of the average wage and salary income in the form of an annuity. In addition, the Olympic allowance helps in cases or difficulties that may result from the sportsman spending a large part of his time on sports as a young and young adult, possibly at the expense of his education and higher education. As of 1 January 2017, the Secretary of State responsible for sport shall carry out the tasks related to the establishment and payment of the Olympic allowance. The Olympic allowance is a tax-free benefit, the rules on benefits have been amended several times in the 20 years since its introduction. For example, there was an increase in the number of people receiving benefits, first with medal athletes, then with coaches and educators. After all, the role of educators is essential on the road to success, as it is their job to make the athletes love sport in childhood and to do whatever it takes to develop the athlete, thus establishing their successful future. In addition, in terms of team sports, among coaches, the federal captain is also entitled to an allowance. In addition, in recent years, the scope of sports events qualifying for Olympic benefits has been added, including the paralympics and the deafly limp, as well as the amount of the allowance for the number of gold medals has been introduced. In addition, the institution of lack of merit for the Olympic allowance, as we have heard from the Member, has been included in the law, which means that he cannot receive an Olympic allowance, who has a criminal record or is subject to a trial. [[16.20]] According to all these laws, some 900 people today receive Olympic benefits, athletes, coaches, or widows. The Parliament last amended the conditions for becoming entitled to annuity in 2011, among other things, the requirements of the sports profession, which must be fully met, since all athletes receive Olympic benefits in the same way, regardless of the sporting event, Olympics, Paralympics, Deaf Lympics or chess Olympics. Such a condition: the medal is awarded to an allowance only if the event was held in a qualifying competition system, or in the event, as we have already heard, at least eight nations have participated and started. However, when applying these provisions, some athletes who have reached the same sporting event or even the same event may be entitled to an Olympic allowance and others will not. This is how players in the same team of a team sport could be entitled to an annuity under the current rules of the law in a different way for the reason that they have reached the age of 35 qualifying for an annuity with a significant difference. A part of the team in question was able to submit them before 1 January 2012 and several other members only thereafter. Therefore, teammates were subject to different rules under these laws. This is also amended by the present Regulation. This provision of the Sports Act is therefore to be clarified by the motion of the Members to apply it in respect of events which took place after the entry into force of the amendment, and it is important to stress that the conditions and requirements previously laid down in the Sports Act are still justified and there is no change in them. Dear Parliament, The motion proposes only the fair application of these conditions and requirements, on the basis of which the Hungarian Government supports T/18005. I ask for its adoption by this House. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-99	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Róbert Balázs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-31-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, T/18005 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport submitted by Members Gergely Tapolczai and Zsolt Nyitrai. Bill No.3 clarifies the rules of the Olympic allowance. Firstly, I would like to thank Gergely Tapolczai, our fellow Member, who has undertaken this work and has been actively involved in the drafting of this bill. In April 1997 the National Assembly decided on the introduction of the Olympic allowance or, formerly known as Olympic championship benefit as a state grant. The main aim of the institution is to express recognition and appreciation of athletes achieving outstanding sports results. In the two decades since the introduction of the Olympic allowance, its rules have been amended several times. For example, the circle of beneficiaries of benefits with silver and bronze medalists and coaches has been extended to include sports events that qualify for Olympic benefits, such as the paralympics and the deafly lympics. On the basis of all these legal rules, as has already been said, some 900 people today receive an Olympic allowance under the title of athletes, widows, or coaches. The Parliament last amended the conditions for becoming entitled to annuity six years ago; inter alia, sports professional requirements and conditions have been laid down that should apply to all sports results qualifying for annuity. All athletes receive an Olympic allowance in the same way, regardless of the type of sporting event, Olympics, paralympics, deaflympics or chess Olympics. Such a condition is that the medal is awarded to an allowance only if the event was held in a qualifying competition system or if at least eight nations participated in the event. Ladies and gentlemen, The application of the 2011 amendment to the Sports Act is clarified by the motion of our Members to apply it in respect of events which took place after the entry into force of the amendment. I would point out that these previously established sports conditions and requirements are still justified and that there is no change in them. The motion by the Members proposes only fair application of these conditions and requirements. As the lead speaker of Fidesz, our faction will support the proposed bill. I would also ask the representatives of the other parties to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-101	Thank you, Congressman Robert Balázs Simon. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-31-102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The outstanding sports results are certainly worthy of recognition. It is not random that, not in 2017, but in looking back for a long time, this system has been working for 20 years. 1997, as has been said between the walls of the House, is the moment, the time when practically the format of the annuity was published. Obviously, there have been several changes over the past 20 years, the results of these changes, which Mrs. Secretary of State also spoke about, are that in practice, in addition to athletes, coaches or educators have been taken into account, or widows have become involved. I think that's right. In this sense, the magnitude of the number of beneficiaries and the number of persons in this circle cannot be considered to be excessive to an absolute extent. It is perfectly all right; yes, excellent results are both appropriate and necessary to acknowledge. And if a law in force has features that are a disadvantage to those who obtained a medal before 2012, but, above all, as has been said by the Secretary of State, because of their age, they have not yet submitted their claim for an Olympic allowance, then this should be possible. In that sense, I think it's quite appropriate. There is one other thing, however, that I would like to say in any case in connection with the negotiation of the draft law. The fact that I can say personally, but calmly, by the Hungarian Socialist Party, that the results of the Olympics and Paralympics should not be separated. There's no difference between performances and there's no difference. Each is unique and each is outstanding, individually and separately. I feel unworthy, and I find it unworthy that, for example, there is discrimination in the case of people with different disabilities or because of this. I am not referring primarily to the aspect of annuity, but, let us say, to the different remunerations. It seems that paralympics are second-class in this sense - and I don't like to use the word. No, they're not. [[16.30]] They have the same or even greater performance behind them as anyone else. This feeling must not become a ruler. In this sense, there is also a need to change the practice that makes a difference today with regard to the division in remuneration. I can therefore say that not only I, but the Hungarian Socialist Party, are in favour of creating a format in the same allowance, so that there is no difference between the Olympics and the Paralympics. In addition, as a final sentence to the bill, I repeat only my one sentence, which is that there is a place for any change of law that is virtually not less favourable, but puts in a better position all those who bring glory to Hungary with their actions and outstanding sports performances. Thank you very much for your attention. Mr. President, thank you.
u2017-10-31-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-31-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Although there has been a lot of provocative comments, I try not to break up the framework of this debate because, in essence, this bill can be considered somewhat technical, and, in addition, in its entirety, it is very brief, and I think its support is so clear that, on the one hand, it provided support for all the speakers in the debate so far, and, on the other hand, it was unanimously supported by everyone at the Committee on Culture. So all I can do is thank Mr Gergely Tapolczai and Zsolt Nyitrai for the presentation. In fact, an earlier regulatory error or carelessness is corrected with this proposal, and perhaps when this ambivalent situation was born, it could also be the legislative intention that this proposal contains. So in this sense, I do not want to multiply the word unnecessarily, and Jobbik, of course, supports the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-31-105	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Tapolczai.
u2017-10-31-106	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much for your supporting comments and thoughts. Indeed, it is a short and simple proposal, which makes it clear that it is aimed at clarifying the problem situation that we have so far. Thank you, too, for the support of the Secretary of State. I would just like to add one thought to what my colleague Nándor Gúr said. Indeed, this proposal does not include the idea that all performances are equal; there should be no difference between benefits. This is a separate topic, it could be the subject of a separate debate. It's just an observation to me that there are not only Olympics and paralympics, but also deaflimpics. I have experienced this discrimination for a very long time, let's say, but I understand it, and I accept it, because most of the people, most of the media attention, are also focused on the Olympics and the Paralympics. But bear in mind that there has been a deaf limbo since 1924, and those deaf athletes have been doing their best to achieve the results of their country, so please mention them in your forthcoming speeches, whether in relation to sports law or in relation to rewards or benefits, because it is equally important, for example, special Olympics or world games of organ transplants. But thank you again for all your supporting contributions.
u2017-10-31-107	I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Gergely Tapolczai, for his closure. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the implementation of the 2016 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is now taking place until closure. Presentation by the Committee on Budgets T/15813. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, notary, vice-president of the Committee on Budgets, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-31-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable House! The 2010 Media Services and Public Communications Act 134. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority shall submit its accounts for the previous year by 31 May of each year. The NMHH fulfilled this task and submitted it to the National Assembly at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 24 May. I would like to point out that, at the spring committee meeting, there was no significant debate on the closure of the Authority, which was adopted by 10 votes in favour, 3 against and without abstentions. This bill reports on the implementation of a total of four separate budgets. It contains two accounts: on the one hand, a separate report by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Media Council, and two budgets: the budget for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council, and the budget of the Fund for Media Services and Asset Management. The Authority's total statutory budget revenue estimate was HUF 32 billion for HUF 297,6 million, which was achieved for HUF 33 billion for HUF 372.1 million in 2016. This shows an overall overachievement of 3.3 percent. A few words on the implementation of the 2016 Media Council's operational budget. The Council's operating budget amounted to HUF 173.9 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the allowances of members, the expenses of experts and the amounts which may be used to provide operational support to co-regulatory staff. Budget revenues were reached at HUF 496.2 million, which exceeds the initial appropriations by 3.1 percent. The funding revenues include the remnants of the previous years with HUF 129.9 million, which includes the amount of the HUF 82.2 million surplus commitment approved in 2016 and the reserves of the Media Council in previous years at HUF 47.7 million. Revenues were thus totalled HUF 626.1 million in 2016. The budget expenditure of the Media Council of HUF 509.7 million shows an excess of 105.9 percent of the initial appropriations, which can be explained by the above mentioned residual transfer. The budget for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council: the revenue of the Media Council, which was billed by the Media Council, was definitively allocated to MTVA in 2016 as follows. The media service fee revenue was HUF 1 billion (133.2 million), which represented 3.9 percent overachievement of the initial appropriations. The total revenue for the frequency and grant tender is HUF 38.1 million, which is 66.8 percent of the planned revenue, while the revenue for the interest on penalties, fines and late payments was HUF 28.3 million. [[16.40]] The cost of the bank has not been paid within the allocation. Thus, the 2016 revenue performance amounted to HUF 1 billion of HUF 245 million. The total expenditure managed by the Media Council in 2016 amounted to HUF 1 billion of HUF 266.3 million in the same order as revenue appropriations. A few words about the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. The backbone of MTVA's revenue budget is the public service contribution, the sum of which is Mttv. 69.9 billion forints. The completion took place in the same way, the total revenue was HUF 88.6 billion, while the budget expenditure reached HUF 88.5 billion. The deficit of HUF 0.9 billion occurred in non-budget items. Dear House, In 2012, MTVA purchased the headquarters of Kunigunda Street. The institution took out loans for the purchase of the headquarters and for the settlement of debts accumulated in previous years. The complex loan package consisted of HUF 36 billion of HUF 629 million of investment loans, HUF 20 billion of working capital loans and HUF 4 billion of overdrafts, and included a bank guarantee framework of HUF 1 billion. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the Government Decision No 1 on the debt consolidation of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund and the provision on the return of ownership of state-owned property not required for the performance of the tasks, the investment and working capital loan was transferred. In order to manage liquidity, overdrafts remain available to MTVA for HUF 4 billion. By the end of the year, the use of the credit line was HUF 909.9 million. Dear House, Based on a study of the NMHH's accounts, it can be concluded that the Authority's management and financial situation in 2016 gave us a real and reliable picture. The requested auditor also came to the same conclusion. In view of the above, I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-10-31-109	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-31-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! A bill on the implementation of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority (NMHH) in 2016, i.e. a legislative proposal for closure T/15813. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As we have heard from the rapporteur, this proposal was discussed by the Committee on Budgets on 24 May 2017 and considered it appropriate for a general debate and decided to submit it. I note that the representatives of the NMHH have provided detailed information on the issues raised in the committee orally and in writing. I would also like to mention, as a member of the Cultural Committee, that last week, i.e. Wednesday, 25 October, the president of the NMHH also explained in detail the professional content behind the budget lines. Dear House, A few words about the budget, since the closing bill, as we have heard, reports on the implementation of four separate budgets. These are the reports of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the report of the Media Council, the budget for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council, and the budget for the Media Service Support and Asset Management. I would like to mention these figures in a slightly different dimension than we have heard from my colleague Lajos Szűcs. The first budget includes the report of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. Here, as we have heard, the proceeds were rounded to HUF 33.4 billion, which represents an excess of approximately 3.3 percent compared to the initial appropriations under the law. I'm just mentioning the main revenue items. The largest revenue item is the frequency fee of nearly HUF 20 billion, exactly HUF 19.3 billion, the ID fee of HUF 2.5 billion, and the supervisory fee of HUF 1.9 billion. In addition, operating aid and billed VAT can be found. These are the revenues, therefore. Expenditures were completed at HUF 29.3 billion, and this is 90.7 percent of the initial statutory appropriations. It's classic, I don't want to repeat it, it means personal, material benefits, accumulation expenses and other operating expenses. And as we have heard from the rapporteur, the reserve has also been provided, which is described in detail in what they have devoted themselves to. The second budget is the budget of the Media Council, which was completed by HUF 496 million and HUF 200 thousand. This also shows a surplus of about 3.1 percent. Here the budget expenditure is in balance, all remaining amounts remain, to be exact, HUF 68.7 million, which we propose to transfer to the Authority for reserve. So this could be a kind of backup. The third budget is the budget of revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council, one of the key elements of which is the media service fee. This means that the revenue was HUF 1 billion of HUF 245 million, which represents a HUF 6.1 percent surplus compared to the initial allocation, which may only be explained by the fact that the media service fee was exceeded and this cash flow performance could not be planned. The fourth is the budget of MTVA. The backbone of the revenue budget, as we have heard from the rapporteur, is given by the public service contribution, and here the expenditure and revenue are in balance. More precisely, there is a deficit of HUF 0.9 billion, since the total revenue was HUF 88.6 billion, while the budget expenditure was HUF 88.5 billion. Dear House, The financial, financial and income situation is reflected in our faction, so as a whole, it can be concluded that the institutions concerned have implemented the compliance with accounting and public finance standards in a transparent manner, with the tasks set out in the Finance Act and the Media Act. On this basis, we support the approval of these amounts. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-10-31-111	Thank you very much, Congressman Vinnai. I now give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2017-10-31-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the first half of my speech, I would like to talk a little bit about the method and procedure for submitting the budget and the discharge proposal, and then I would like to ask you about the specific items and various projects that are included in it. I just don't really know who it is that I can ask. That is why I would like to draw attention to the fact that, although the Committee on Budgets is the rapporteur, it is the Committee that is able to examine the professional content itself, the professional functioning of the Committee on Culture. [[16.50]] In this sense, a little among the many midwives is lost in the case of the child, that the operation of the NMHH is comprehensively and overall unable to be informed by the Parliament in a uniform structure. There is no independent audit of the NMHH's financial statements. This is also very strange. There is an audit opinion, and the NMHH does so every year, and only he gives the auditor who controls his budget and accounts, so he is practically the same client as the one being audited. There's actually a self-check on this. This auditor, by the way, is not responsible to Parliament, so it is also a rather strange situation that Parliament, as a quasi-reporter of the President of the Media Council each year, cannot report anyone on the budget, is the national committee itself. And the Committee on Budgets is effective, de facto not carrying out the planning of NMHH's budget or the planning of its accounts, and can only rely on the data provided by NMHH by their specialist and thus submit this proposal, which is a rather strange situation. In addition, there is a central budget, which is not part of the NMHH budget, but of an independent budget. So, that's the kind of state the NMHH actually operates in the state. It's like we have two state budgets or two state accounts because we didn't integrate the other into one. We would therefore consider it necessary to discuss the plenary session of the Parliament together with the professional report, and we would like the President of the Media Council to be asked at least on these issues, because at the meeting of the Committee on Culture we could only ask questions about the professional content. I'm here to comment on this, but the Committee on Budgets is not competent, in case I get an answer, if not from the author, but from the NMHH. Every year, there's a backup issue, and that's gonna be a topic. The Authority delivered HUF 29.3 billion, compared with HUF 10 billion more reserves for the given year. This is a rather strange situation if you have more reserves than the total operating cost of the year, and of this you also had 7 billion forints of money given to MTVA, so it was not the issue of the authority. So it's a weird, completely unnecessary expenditure on the part of the budget, if the authority is otherwise assured of its operation. The government side is very keen on cutting red tape. However, we see on page 27 that the number of employees is constantly increasing with the authority. Only 563 people worked here in 2011 and 646 in 2016, so there is a significant increase. Next year's proposal, the debate of which will follow this item here at the plenary session, will be counted at 680. The next item, which I would like to highlight, is politically interesting, and I may make it even more juicy. I do not want to engage politically in any kind of community with Clubradio, but it is strange that in 2016 they had to pay 129 million because they basically made this radio impossible in a conceptual process. My next question relates to the project "Hír-közmű" on pages 37-38. This was appointed in 2012, and I also don't know who can answer that, but HUF 6.25 billion has been allocated to this, that's not little. By the way, this project itself seems to be forward-looking, but it would be good to know when it is expected that it will be completed, how much it will cost taxpayers overall, and what details can be found on the position of this project. Once again, he was appointed in 2012, and there's only one item here. The same is the case with digital changeover II. a project, which should be completed by 2020. There is also a strange situation here, because in 2013 they decided on the first step of the digital changeover. When this started, they started introducing technology that now needs to be replaced. So it would be good to know how they stand here, whether the target date for 2020 can be maintained, or if the HUF 7.1 billion that is included is the total amount, or if this will increase. So I have a question about this too. The closing report also includes a media awareness programme, which should be an extremely important part of the whole media issue, not only of the operation of the NMHH, but of all media, press products and anyone who is in any contact with the media, including politicians. So I think it is very forward-looking that such a programme has been launched and that young people are an explicit target group for this. This is a very important thing, but we can learn from this that there is very little to achieve, unfortunately, so this should be greatly increased. The budget also includes a reserve of HUF 10 billion. The explanatory memorandum states that I would like to use this partly to increase media awareness, but the explanatory memorandum does not have any normative power; and if it is designed as a reserve, why not plan the budget so that it is explicitly defined as a normative force that it will be used to increase media awareness, or it would be important to expand the different target groups, not only young people, but also other social groups, if we could achieve this. I tell you every year, but there's never any change in the radio digital transition. This is also a failure of Hungary. I have said it several times here in plenary, and I have never received an answer to that either. Obviously, I should not repeat the arguments that we could achieve a more qualitative sound, that the market would be more liberal, so there would be more information available, and that the opinion monopolies would break. Although the trend over the last few years is that you are not interested in this, and the opposite was what happened. With regard to the media awareness programme, I also have to say that this is false because in politics and the political press it is the opposite of what we see examples of. Press lawsuits against Jobbik, corrections, are the best example that Fidesz's party media is practically trying to discredit Jobbik based on a conscious lie. This is reflected in our more than 70 redress lawsuits won over a year, and the subsequent practice that corrections are not announced by press organisations. But they are more creative now, because even if we win a correction in a specific case against a press product, then this lie is once again written down, once again being spread. So even though we once win correction against a press product in a particular case, they don't care, and they rewrite it. It would therefore also be necessary to increase media awareness in terms of ignoring such media organisations or those published in them. This is what I wanted to say about closing accounts, and I will also make my comments on the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-31-113	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. Longer? Shorter? [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to notary Lajos Szűcs, Congressman, the author.
u2017-10-31-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, this is a strange bill, but it may be understood from the fact that the independence of the media authority makes it possible to submit a separate bill. I would like to say to the Member's questions that we are very happy to be available, because at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, there have been a number of data in the minutes that you have asked, such as the use of reserves and the number of staff. [[17.00]] So I'd like you to take a look at the data requested from the Budget Committee's report. I think that since this part of the media authority is included in the large budget for MTVA every year in the budget and in the accounts, and the very essence of this law is that, by explaining the four budgets, it can be dissected, and you can watch it on a professional basis at the Committee on Culture, I believe that the publicity of this is assured. The accountant and on the issue of auditing, I would just like to say that, since they also operate under the law, it does not matter who orders the audit, it must declare its actuality and completeness in the context of criminal liability. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] You're telling me that you're, oh! Of course, this can be challenged in court, and if anyone has any other thoughts about this, they should do so. I think the authorities and MTVA are ahead of this. As Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, I am in a strange position to say to the congresswoman that if the chairman of the committee wanted to make this proposal, he could have done so, but this role was given to me, but the whole committee is here to present itself, not to be pro-government and not to be opposition, but to the fullness of the Committee on Budgets. I therefore call on this House to assess the present referral and debate accordingly, and to ask for its adoption in the proper order. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-31-115	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, as rapporteur. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. A general debate on the draft law on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2018 will follow. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/17872. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, notary, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-10-31-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then some of the sentences that I might have to say in the same way as this law, I'm not going to tell you now, you can look at this from the previous part of the record. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear House, The National Media and Infocommunications Authority was established with effect from 11 August 2010 and acts as an autonomous administrative body. Its operations shall be covered by its own revenue and budgetary contribution. Under the Media Services and Public Communications Act, the Authority's single budget includes both the budget of the NMHH, the Media Council of NMHH and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. The president of the NMHH sent it to the Parliament by the deadline of 15 September, as laid down by law, which was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 16 October. The NMHH's core activity revenue shall be the fees paid for the use of frequencies, the booking and use of identifiers, the supervisory fee, the procedural fees and the fines collected. The total revenue of the NMHH budget is expected to be HUF 34 billion in 2018. According to the bill submitted, the amount of operating aid received to cover the costs of the Media Council's official body is still HUF 2 billion HUF 224.4 million. The planned public authority revenues in the communications area amounted to HUF 25 billion, HUF 866.4 million and were 2.7 percent lower than in 2017 appropriations. The planned fee for the use of identifiers is HUF 2.5 billion, which is 2 percent higher than the 2017 allocation. The planned supervisory fee is HUF 2 billion and is equal to HUF 7 million in the previous year. Fines will be used to develop a culture of conscious consumer decision-making, Mttv. 134. § 9 as defined. These are planned to amount to HUF 376.1 million and the plan for the late payment is HUF 2 million. The frequency charges of 78.6% of public revenues were planned with HUF 20 billion and HUF 342 million. The reason for the loss of revenue is the one-off, outstanding revenue of the FDDs won in the 2600 MHz tender, which only affected the year 2017. A few words about expenses. The total expenditure of the Authority's budget represents a significant proportion of staff allowances and related employer contributions and social contributions taxes. Of course, the level of personal benefits has been determined as laid down in the Public Service Officers Act. The starting point for the design of salaries is the projected state of salaries adjusted by reclassifications in 2017 as of 1 January 2018 and the 680 staff. The reduction of the social contribution tax and the health contribution by 2 percentage points in 2018 represents a significant saving. The appropriation of HUF 8 billion of staff allowances and contributions is HUF 800 million, with the same number of employees - planned for 680 people - 4.3 percent lower than planned for 2017. The appropriation of HUF 11 billion in real estate includes, on the one hand, the technical, infrastructure and administrative expenditure of the office operation and, on the other hand, the expenditure necessary to implement the converging official task system, as well as the obligation to pay VAT. Other operational expenditure includes the amounts allocated to support for the development of a culture of conscious consumer decision-making, in addition to covering operational expenditure. This appropriation is also intended to cover the reserve, which includes the operating reserve of HUF 10 billion for the year as a result of the economic management. In the planned amount of HUF 4 billion of HUF 50 million, investments in the area of IT, which ensure a smooth process of measuring services and which are almost HUF 1 billion smaller than in 2017. The Media Council's budget for 2018. The planned amount to cover the Council's operating costs is HUF 168.2 million, which includes staff allowances, contributions from the Media Council of 5 members, expert frameworks to assist them in their professional activities, as well as funding for the co-operation. In addition, the Media Council's operating budget must show the general turnover tax content of media market revenues - media service fee, tender fee - a total of HUF 290.3 million, so the budget will amount to HUF 458.5 million, both on the revenue and expenditure side. A few words about the 2018 budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. According to the law, the commercial and asset management revenues belong to MTVA. The following are advertising and other business and financial revenues. Revenues include HUF 71,3 billion as a public service contribution, media market revenue: HUF 1 billion (HUF 91 million), including the media service fee paid by commercial media service providers; media contract infringement penalty, fine, late payment interest: HUF 30 million; commercial, asset management and other revenues HUF 8 billion (HUF 504.1 million). [[17.10]] A few sentences on the specific list of expenditure. The operation and production of MTVA is HUF 71 billion 588 million, the support of the media field is HUF 3 billion 145 million, and part of the public service contribution is transferred by MTVA to the Media Council's official body and to the Public Service Foundation for HUF 2 billion 625 million, the Duna Media Provider Nonprofit Zrt. HUF 1 billion 700 million, total of other items, the Public Service, Cultural Nonprofit Kft. support, support of the Civil Service Media Academy, copyright royalty, interest payment and other amounts of HUF 1 billion HUF 813.2 million. In view of this, the Committee on Budgets discussed the submitted bill for 2018 and submitted it to Parliament. I propose that my fellow Members discuss it and then adopt it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-31-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We'll get back to work. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to present his position during the debate. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: He is not here.]] So now it's time for the keynote speaker's speeches. First of all, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Vinnai Győző, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-31-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a bill on the 2018 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The aim of the NMHH is to ensure a predictable, consistent balance between respect for freedom of the press and the protection of the public's interests, consistent with the guarantees of the rule of law and European practice. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That was a serious sentence.]] I think we all see that the media market is changing every day. In fact, it's changing fast. [[Interviews from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik: It is indeed changing.]] A number of new media market services are emerging. It's really changing, isn't it? That's good for you to say. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Just not in the right direction.]] Media consumption patterns are changing, and everyone in this competition, public service media, must also compete. It is therefore essential to provide financial resources to the Authority. Dear House, I would like to mention that the vice-president of the Committee on Budgets, as rapporteur, also mentioned that the item was discussed by the committee at its meeting on 16 October and considered it appropriate for a general debate. Representatives of the NMHH also appeared at the committee meeting, who presented the prepared budget proposal and answered the oral questions raised. I do not want to qualify for this substance, but according to my information, Mr Mesterházy has been given detailed supplementary information in writing for further questions. Moreover, it is gratifying that, compared to previous years, the detailed justification for the budget includes the distribution of frequency charges by title. I note here that this was specifically a request from a former member of the Committee on Budgets, Mr László Szakács, to the Authority, and that this year the budget has already been drawn up in this structure. Dear House, I, too, would like to talk about revenue and expenditure, with a slightly different breakdown than the rapporteur said, on these four separate budgets. The first is the budget of NMHH, where revenues decreased by about HUF 1 billion. This can be detected in frequency charges, a reduction of HUF 0.9 billion, there are several items here, and there is also a decrease due to the VAT content of operating revenues, this is 1.2 billion. However, there is a surplus of HUF 200 million in administrative services, i.e. HUF 0.2 billion, so the reduction is 1 billion. We were talking about spending, these are classics, personal benefits, contributions, real estate expenses, stockpiling expenses. In fact, the total amount of expenditure was HUF 34.3 billion, equivalent to the revenue. My colleague, Lajos Szűcs, spoke about the provision of reserves, and I would not go into this in more detail. A very small decrease of HUF 200 million compared to the initial allocation for 2017 is shown in the proposal of 18th. In fact, in the second budget, which is the draft budget for 2018, the Media Council's operating budget is published. The total sum of expenditure and revenue, as we have already heard, is HUF 458.5 million. Of course, this shows the amount of staff allowances, expert expenses, co-regulators spent on supporting the operation. Also, as we have heard, it includes revenue appropriations managed by the Media Council, including their VAT content. The third is the budget for revenue and expenditure managed by the Media Council. This means revenue from the media market, the media service fee. The total amount of expenditure and revenue is in balance, amounting to HUF 1 billion and HUF 120 million. And MTVA is the fourth budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, where the total revenue and expenditure are also equal, worth HUF 80 billion, worth HUF 871.7 million. Allow me to point out one more item, the author said about supporting the media field, which totals more than HUF 3 billion, HUF 3 billion and HUF 145 million. A movement, which was also mentioned at the Cultural Committee's meeting in a professionally positive sense, is that the films, in addition to various categories, include support for local radios, local television magazines and local news reports, with more than HUF 1 billion, HUF 1 billion and HUF 51 million. There are also overhead costs, and there are, of course, production costs. And as an individual rural representative, I know from local radio programme editors that it is a great help for them to produce public, cultural programmes or magazine programmes. Dear House, Overall, with regard to the four budgets, as the lead speaker for Fidesz, I can conclude that the budget submitted is sound, balanced, predictable and transparent. This is why our group supports the bill tabled. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-31-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now, the head speaker of the MSZP, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, will give her opinion. Here you go.
u2017-10-31-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the NMHH staff very, very much for attending the meeting, as he is the only one who sits through these debates every single time. I am very sorry that no one among your leaders felt that he should be here today, but thank you very much for being here. We are really facing a very faramuci situation, ladies and gentlemen, because it is the President of the Media Council who cannot be asked anywhere, in any case we cannot raise our problems to him, and in any case we cannot put questions to him, because he is so independent of everyone - but not of the governing party. We are talking about an authority whose main task is to protect independence, enforce the rules. And right in the media area. Which, unfortunately, is not happening in this country at the moment, or rather impartially. In recent times, many sad things have happened, in which the media authority has not taken the steps that should have been taken in a democratic country, and has done so in the event that the governing party had to be protected, or when the pro-government representatives or pro-government media had to be protected. We hope that this will change very quickly, and at last, after the change of government, there will be a media authority that will be able to do its work independently. [[17.20]] Because I think what we need is for this area to be something that is absolutely independent of everyone. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, pro-government representatives did not feel they had a question for the staff of the media authority. In fact, most of the questions were answered in writing, not because the media authority wanted to overdo it, but because it could not answer the questions that the President, Attila Mesterházy, asked. Therefore, he wanted to reply in writing, for example, to the exact number of scholarships and to a number of questions for which I think they should have given the answers in a prepared report at the moment. We hope that all Members will have a written response to what the presidents and leaders promised in the minutes of the committee meeting. I think that this is a fundamental task of an independent media authority to make information available to everyone and to answer questions, since they are paid with public money. The operational reserves of the following years are regulated by law. This organisation shall not constitute a reserve of more than 25 per cent of the actual annual revenue per year. They've also been very successful in overachievering this. I think it deserves a round of applause in a less democratic country. But otherwise, in a less democratic country, they would probably put their hands together if the public media could perform a newscast that we are unfortunately seeing in Hungary today. In addition to the alarm, the blue light and the polish of the governing parties, there is nothing more to be found in these public service broadcasts. But let's keep looking. We are very pleased that the heads of the NMHH were pleased to announce at the committee meeting that the personnel costs had been reduced. What we do not know is that if the number has increased, and if the president of the NMHH can give his employees two and a half months' extra allowance each year for good work, then how could this amount decrease with an increasing number. He must have been a powerful help from the ruling party, and I can't really imagine anything else, or it's just numbers that are stubborn, and there's something wrong with that. If you look at the wages of this independent authority: the number of people employed is now 655, because we are very pleased that the maximum number of 680 people has not yet been filled; the benefits with additions, housing support and travel cost support are on average 695 thousand forints, and their managers' salary is estimated at 1 million 30 thousand forints on average. I think that this is heavily overpriced, and many would be very, very happy to be able to work with such quality work in Hungary today with such a good salary. I think doctors and nurses should be paid about this, not employees of such a quasi-independent authority. We are very pleased that high school students, students between 9 and 16 years of age, can apply to MTVA to see how this public service media works. By the way, managers also say that a quarter-and-a-half hour after the opportunity is opened, high school students always have the opportunity to apply. I think that the programme itself would not be bad; the idea could also be good if they did not have to watch the operation at MTVA, which is visible in Hungary today. We are very pleased that students included in the scholarship programme will also be able to get a job on independent public service television. We hope that they can do their job as independent journalists and that no one will influence them in the next period. The role of the media monitoring bodies would be precisely that and they were created to enforce the basic rules of the broadcasting and media services, to set public frameworks for the market and to prevent the excessive influence of certain actors. It always reminds me of the story of the county papers, which I don't think I have to explain to you, because everyone knows it very well. And somehow, as a country girl, I think of the little radios in the country, and I think about the take-over in the rural radio market, which has been taking place on very, very large scale in recent years. After all, this year's decades-old, market-leading rural radios can fail their frequencies and publish frequencies in 8 county seats that have been empty frequencies in the past, only so that they can play this area for their friendly Santa Claus, Andy Vajna, the bearded one. It really is a beautiful story because it was the only area where independent radios could operate in the countryside. Now this area is being played for Radio 1. We would have liked to have asked questions in this matter, too, only after the president of the Media Council cannot be asked, because he is so independent of everyone, so we have no place to tell him and ask him, he is not sitting at the table today. There is no leader to whom these questions or problems could be raised, because we see that they are the ones who are hiding from MEPs and everyone who can ask questions or question whether they are making professionally appropriate decisions. We would like you to answer our questions, but this cannot happen at any time thanks to regulation. It was the rural radios that went on with the excuses they had to say, running against stróman companies, and in most cases their applications were rejected for formal reasons, or they were only typified, and they could either take over the frequencies of the local small radios, or they could turn over to Radio 1, and they could turn over the rights of broadcasting by finding a legal loophole. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, do you know that, thanks to your regulations, in the event that a small radio wins a frequency, it can pass the right to broadcast to another radio 20 hours out of 24 hours, and another radio programme can be on its frequency. This is how Radio 1 can be handed over in a number of places from 24 hours to 20 hours, and 4 hours can be even at dawn, or music can only be played. From then on, you don't even have to play these radios fully into this one hand, but you just have to use the loophole well. I think it will be a serious task for the government after 18 to be able to stand up again in an independent media so that an independent authority can stand up again, independently of radios, TVs, newspapers and online portals, and to have an independent MTI that can respond to all questions, regardless of news, and not decide what news it brings out and which news it doesn't, who is public and who isn't, and who news about it can be published. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that it would be very difficult to support this proposal because of the shortcomings in preparation and because there are no respondents in the room. It reminds me that at least there would be someone who would take responsibility for this, who would sit in here and try to protect why they need this amount, why they need to increase their numbers every year, and what the professional minimum they put on the table is. 'Cause I'm saying that we're talking about budget money that taxpayers are adding up to, and in which you can't decide and you can't just give it to someone that doesn't stand up for it. I think you have made a law that protects the one who serves you. I'm sorry that there are so few government representatives involved, because at least they would protect you. I regret that the only committee in the Committee on Budgets, where the two fellow Members in the Chamber could have asked their questions, did not do so either, because they only listened to the meeting, accepting everything. I am very sorry that no one on the government's side thinks that you should sit in this room, stand by our questions and give answers. I'm sorry that no one from the Media Council, the NMHH, is sitting here. I think it's a scandal, and it shouldn't stay that way. For this reason, the budget of 18 is the last budget to be negotiated in this way. From 19 onwards, there will be no question that this will go very, very differently. [[Hungarian Zoltán: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[17 .30]]
u2017-10-31-121	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, lead speaker for Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2017-10-31-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Szűcs said that he would not repeat what was said at the previous item on the agenda, which is also relevant to this point, so I will not do this either; what I said at that time about the procedure for closing accounts is equally valid with regard to the budget No 18. So we saved us all three minutes to repeat that, I won't. However, with regard to the budget for 18, I have to highlight one thing, and I am obliged to discuss it in detail, and this is the budget of the public media. The public media, according to plan 18, crosses the dream limit of HUF 80 billion - perhaps a lot of people don't understand how much money it is - and will spend HUF 51.5 billion on real estate expenditure, for example, for the production of programmes. Now the extent to which the production of programmes is carried out with the help of the internal staff, and the extent to which external companies and manufacturers are kept from it, or how these funds migrate to government contractors, let us leave it, because, in the case of the audit, it is still possible to argue how much control of the National Assembly works, but Mr.Miklós Vaszily is also invited to the meeting of the Cultural Committee, and he is virtually unwilling to attend the meeting of the Cultural Committee. For 80 billion, you could come in before the Parliament's technical inspection board and answer our questions, but you won't do so, so it's not appropriate for him to come to the meeting of the Cultural Committee at any time, because there is no law binding on him to do so. However, we have many questions, because the professional standard that has developed in all aspects of the Hungarian public media over the past two or three years is something of a scandal, and here we need to talk not only about the political content or such an amazing degree of politicisation of the public media, but also about a number of people who would otherwise be unsuitable for this, and this is true not only for television, but also, unfortunately, we often see on the radio that they are speaking without Hungarian language, that they are there with speech error, that they cannot read, read, that they are placed before them and that we can list. So there have been a number of changes that have made a huge professional impairment of standards in the public media. It means that it works politically brutally unbalanced - but it works brutally unbalanced! - I probably shouldn't even tell you this, but I'll tell you that there was a public media show in which, according to the Media Council report, the proportion of pro-government speakers was 89 percent - 89 percent! [[Anita Beringes: That's balance!]] In a South American pretend democracy, they give the opposition more space, I beg you, than 11 percent of the total opposition, 11 percent of the total opposition, and the appearance of Jobbik was 3 percent. Therefore, there would also be room for development for the public media in terms of balanced information. To illustrate a little how much this HUF 80 billion is, based on the data of the Advertising Association, total commercial electronic media advertising revenue was HUF 65.5 billion in the previous year, so total commercial electronic media advertising revenue is HUF 15 billion less than that of public media in the following year. In terms of ratings, all channels have an aggregate rating of around 15 per cent, and they went up to 20 per cent if they were either football-Eb or Olympics, otherwise public media ratings do not exceed 15 per cent. To make this money so effective, I think it raises questions. Obviously, in the case of public media, it is not only the ratings that must be taken into account, there are obviously parts of a public media that are meant to create value, or aspects that need to be taken into account not only the ratings, but also 15 percent of the 80 billion forints, I think it is rather shameful, and that is why we have a number of professional questions for the CEO if he shows up at the committee meeting. However, not only did he never attend the committee meeting, but he did not go to the Board of the Public Service Foundation, which was the only media body to which opposition factions could delegate a member, but he would not go there, he never appeared before the Board of the Public Service Foundation. To speak of the fact that this budget, or the operation of MTVA, or the operation of public media, would be transparent and that the information is accessible to Members, I think it is quite impertinent and quite simply not true. Congressman Vinnai mentioned how quickly the media market is changing. I would like to give a concrete example of this rapid change and some concrete examples, and this is the market for printed newspapers, how quickly it has changed. Over the last few years, I've been trying to explain to you the ownership of the 20 most read newspapers. The first belongs to the interests of Bors, Andy Vajna; the second belongs to Kisalföld, also to Andy Vajna; the third to Vas Néke, Mészáros Lőrinc; the property of one of the Eastern Hungary, but to another gentleman; the Zalai Hírlap also belongs to Lőrinc Mészáros; the National Sport is also linked to Lőrinc Mészáros; the South Hungary to Andy Vajna; then there are two exceptions again; we return again to Lőrinc Mészáros; the Népszavas Hírlap, Lőrinc Mészáros; the Hungarian Nemzet, Lajos Simicska; the Békés Megyei Hírlap, Mészáros Lőrinc; the Népőfi Népfi, Mészáros Lőrinc; the Népszáros Lőrceszőr. at the end of the Népős, Més Lőros. So if there is a market somewhere that distorts competition and restricts the diversity of sources of information, then this is brutally so. So to make 13 of the 20 most read newspapers belong to the same person and to his interests, who, by the way, has a very serious interest in the television market and on the Internet market, I think that it is simply not possible to protect this, and of course it is also part of the Hungarian Times, but that is not fortunately among the first 20 most read newspapers, but we could list how the media market has changed very quickly in recent times, using your use of the word. Indeed, such expansion has not been experienced in Hungary in the past or before. So Lőrinc Mészáros can have another world record, he is also very well informed in the media for a gasman and can make very good investments - but I don't want to be cynical, because otherwise it's not that funny. Therefore, in the context of the 2018 budget, what I said about the previous item on the agenda, for example, in relation to the reserve, and in the case of MTVA, I consider the conduct of the CEO to be impertinent, and HUF 80 billion to be extremely excessive both in terms of ratings and professional standards. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-31-123	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have reached the end of the speaker's speeches, and there is no independent representative in the room. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2017-10-31-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unlike Mrs Dóra Dúró, I think and would argue with the congresswoman that I think the effectiveness of public media is excellent in terms of ratings, because the government has managed to achieve a complete brainwashing of those who are learning about anything from public media today, and this is an excellent public media. In the meantime, the question should be asked whether the media authority would have no responsibility or responsibility to tolerate what is happening in the media market today. [[17.40]] Is it balanced? That they're equal opportunities? To give you the chance to show your opinions the same way? I just want to give you one example. Today we held a press conference on the Istanbul Convention to finally ratify the government in order to curb domestic violence. In the last two weeks, there hasn't been a day around the Vígszínház that news of what's going on in the art world hasn't been published about László Marton's case. Interestingly, there was no news of this in public media alone. That wasn't news to the public media. This is not news in Hungary today about how women, children, pensioners are exposed to violence. I don't know what the media authority is doing. What's the job he does, if you can call it a job. Fellow Members! There's two Fidesz congressmen in there. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Many or few?]] Where is the representative of the government? [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: You don't have to be here!]] Where? So, I don't understand this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And, Mr. President, I don't know, it would be nice to have the Fidesz and the KDNP representatives...
u2017-10-31-125	I'm sorry, you volunteered for two minutes, and I'm gonna need you to stop.
u2017-10-31-126	...they'd take their job seriously. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-31-127	Thank you very much. Now, honourable Members, where do we go from here? [[Defiance.]] I will also present this question in an official language, and it happens to be my duty to ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't think so. [[István Szávay: I know what to say, but I don't.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Szűcs if he wishes to reflect as his author. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Yes.]] Congressman, please.
u2017-10-31-128	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Many of the questions raised were a little over-extended in the presentation, which discussed the budget of the NMHH for 2018. I was pleased that the information requested at the committee meeting was requested by Mrs Anita Heringes, but she quoted it in her next sentence. So, my dear Member, the data requested has been made available to the Committee on Budgets, to all Members, so it is safe to ask President Attila Mesterházy for these data. Besides, I would not like to see any committee or any member of Parliament express themselves on media issues in such a way that he tells me what he wants to see in the Hungarian public media. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Only what Fidesz wants can be seen. Habony, Vajna.]] And all I have to say to you is that, fortunately, under the law, it's not going to change. [[Beringes Anita: So you won't be independent of the authorities?]] And I hope that you will appreciate this in the same way. The rest of the data can be found in Parliament's Commission data, and I ask you to examine them, and I would like to suggest to you that if you have an amending proposal, you should do so, although the 2018 budget has already adopted this proposal in relation to the total amount itself. And I hope that the budget submitted will be decided by your votes in favour, and I would like to thank Mr President very much for his attention.
u2017-10-31-129	Thank you very much for the national reflections of Mr Lajos Szűcs. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, Member István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech with the title Evangelical Hungarian about the celebration of the Reformation. Here you go.
u2017-10-31-130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Five hundred years ago, on October 31, 1517, an Augustine monk, Martin Luther, wrote a letter to Bishop Albert of Mainz protesting the sale of farewell tickets. The Catholic Church practically sold salvation, and the papermakers bought with money were named at that age. This letter was accompanied by a discussion paper that challenged the strength and effectiveness of the farewell tickets, which later became known as the 95 items. Even if it proved to be a legend that he pointed this 95 points half a millennium ago at the gate of the Wittenberg castle church, it is undisputed that Luther's act has begun a new chapter in world history. Although the Reformation started as a movement for the renewal and reform of the universal Catholic religion, it soon became a spiritual and cultural current, which basically contributed to the leaping development of science and publishing, to the unparalleled prosperity of culture, art and culture in Europe in the XVI-XVII. In the century. Thus, it has a key role to play in the fact that European states have been able to achieve a dominant position for themselves and for European culture in the world. Dear Parliament, Ich stehe hier und kann nicht anders. "I stand here," said Luther, on April 18, 1521, before the Imperial Assembly in Worms, where he refused to withdraw his doctrines. I myself felt that as one of the few evangelical representatives of the Parliament, I must stand here on this day and remember in some sentences the importance of the Reformation and its role in Hungarian history by our national greats. The role of the Reformation is undisputed even in the fact that the Turkish destroyer, Habsburg's prey, had a spiritual, cultural and cultural flowering age that was divided into three parts of Hungary. The turn of the century. The Bible was translated into Hungarian and printed, and a system of printers, schools and colleges was established in the country, while scientists and artists arrived in the courtyards of the Hungarian Lord, music and literature flourished. In particular, the role of domestic evangelicalism is outstanding, without whom, for example, modern, 19th century would have been unimaginable. Civilization in the second half of the century. As an Evangelist, I know that this religion has unfortunately not always been treated as a Hungarian religion, because it was primarily German and Slovak-speaking members of the church, as I am also a child of a family of Swabian origin. However, it should be pointed out that the Hungarian Evangelical community has enriched the impressive pantheon of the great Hungarians with such emblematic figures as Sándor Petőfi or Lajos Kossuth, who, by the way, both had Slovak roots. But Evangelical was one of the greatest acts of the 1848-49 Revolution and War of Independence, the executioner of the Ozora miracle, Mór Perczel, the school-founding deer pastor, Samuel Tessedi or the Transylvanian poetic head, Sándor Hopeik, who cried for the church and school. Hundreds of thousands of Lutherans were separated from us under the Trianon peace dictatorship, but tens of thousands of evangelicals were mostly voluntarily from Hungary during the exchange of Hungarian-Slovak populations in 1947 and among those forced to leave Hungary due to the expulsion of the Swabians. Our Evangelical Church was a member of Pastor Gábor Stehlo, founder of Glaudiopolis, who saved two thousand people in the emergency age, and innocently sentenced to death in a conceptual trial after the Second World War by General Jány Gusztáv and Bishop Lajos Ordas, who was persecuted by the Rákosi. Generations of Nobel Prize winner Hungarian scientists were brought up in the Evangelical High School of Fassior, including Ede Teller, Jenő Wigner or János Neumann. Gyula Gömbös of Jákfa Schulek, who was the designer of the Fisherman's Bastion, was the father of the Evangelical family of architects, and our former Hungarian prime minister, who has been mistreated to this day, did not by accident contribute the first modern Hungarian government program in 95 points in 1932. Dear Parliament, Martin Luther, or, as we say, Martin Luther did not know that with his movement he was going to establish a new, prosperous church, still living 500 years from now, which basically contributed to the economic, social, and intellectual and cultural development of Hungary and the Hungarian nation in the last half-thousand years. It shows well the willingness of our Lutheran church to act, its dedication to society, Luther's saying, "If I knew the world would be destroyed tomorrow, I would still plant an apple tree. I think that we Members of Parliament must do everything possible to ensure that the Hungarian Evangelical community, as in the past, can contribute to the rise of our country and our nation in the future. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17.50]]
u2017-10-31-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. Undoubtedly, it's a historic day. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-municipal speech. It's called IV. Here you go.
u2017-10-31-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Here, in my series after the agenda, I am attempting to present the Members of this House and the minutes that are present with problems of settlements, which are probably not even heard from the mouths of pro-government politicians, which I regret, because, for example, Alpár Gyopáros, a Member of Parliament in the region, refers to the fact that he is indeed representing the interests of this region, while we do not see the results of this work either in Parliament or in practice. I was hoping that I might get the representatives of the government to speak on this matter, but unfortunately, I have not succeeded so far, but let's see these settlements. I think that the Bosósárkányi also deserve to travel, they rightly expect jobs where they receive as much salary as they can and their families, and they rightly do not accept that their settlements have, by the way, less development resources than they deserve, what they deserve. Quality health and quality community transport would also be expected of the government. The Ciránians also deserve to be able to travel, expect jobs where there is really enough salary to make a living, and so do they, that their access to health services and public transport could indeed be of greater magnitude. The situation is no better in Csáfordjános tree, and medieval road networks are also common here, not to mention the lack of local jobs and the possibilities of public transport access to health care. They do not accept, either, that their settlement has had less development resources than they otherwise deserve, and they rightly expect that the road network in the region is not only about the way around Csorna, but also about the lower roads. This is very important not only for local businesses, but also for local citizens, but without this it is unthinkable, for example, the concept of tourism development, which has been here for years. In practice, no progress has been made here either. I must mention Csér, which is one of the smallest settlements in the country, but I think that the problems of citizens living there should be as important to the governing parties as the problems of Hungarian citizens living in the capital or anywhere else. They would expect the road network to develop in quality, as they often raise the shortage of jobs that can actually pay as much wages as they can support their families. The most important thing for the Csorna people, besides the many problems, is, I think, an honest response from the government to when they can finally see clearly about the solar cell factory in Csorna. An amazing situation has emerged, as billions of forints of public money have been spent on a plant where, to date, they have been able to create three jobs, the three security guards, who are taking turns guarding the empty hall. No crowds of Hungarian suppliers, no hundreds of quality jobs promised, not to mention the fact that they are still lurking about where those billions have been disposed of. Today it became clear that the solar battery plant in Csorna had been known in advance, that government factors had to be clear that this plant would never work, because if I found out during a half-hour of Internet browsing that this company smelled of all sides, then I don't think we should have given it billions to this plant that isn't working today. The Dénesfai, I think, would also deserve viable roads, as well as local quality jobs. I have to mention Dör, which is also not the largest settlement in the country, but the road network needs serious improvements. Here too, I must say, there are decades of promises to make the road network viable, which has not happened to this day. Edve settlement also belongs to the constituency, where the lack of local jobs, the road network and access to health services are all the daily problems of the people living here. My time frame is over for today, but I'll continue next time. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-31-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Thanking you for your work, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. The Parliament will resume its session on Thursday at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone, and then good night. [[Meeting ended at 5:55 p.m.]]
