u2017-11-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Welcome, good afternoon. The 16th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and István Tiba will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Members Mihály Varga and Bence Tuzson, representatives of Fidesz, submitted a proposal T/18006. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, the author of the item on the agenda. Congressman!
u2017-11-02-1	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, We are in a region here in Central Europe, which will be one of the most dynamically developing regions of the world in the next decade, and under these circumstances we Hungarians have to make sure that Hungarian companies in Hungary, as well as Hungarian companies, are given the chance to take part in this strong development that will characterize this region. Accordingly, the Hungarian tax rules - corporate tax - have already included measures of a kind, discounts that have made a significant contribution to enabling the Hungarian economy to grow dynamically and dynamically over the past period. This government and this Parliament have already done much to develop these businesses in Hungary. At the same time, EU rules as regional rules contain provisions which are not necessarily uniform in terms of regions, and which is the problem in Hungary, that there are large differences within the regions, in particular within the Central Hungary region. There are great differences between, say, Budapest and, if we go higher, the development of an ipoly area, it is quite clear what the differences are. Accordingly, the Central-Hungarian region is drawn by Budapest today, and Budapest makes it a region that makes it difficult to grant tax incentives and to grant EU-type subsidies. In view of this, and in order to support innovative businesses in Hungary, we have put on the table this present proposal with Minister Mihály Varga, which is the 1996 LXXXI proposal. It is about amending law and extending the system of development tax incentives. Development tax relief already exists under Hungarian law, on several grounds, such as environmental investments or R &amp; D investments. However, in the Central Hungary region, this tax advantage is limited only if a new enterprise is set up and this type of benefit is used as a new enterprise. Our current proposal concerns the system of this discount, in line with the ECB's support, since the ECB grants and development tax incentives together can have a beneficial effect, in line with these provisions, on two new cases. One of the cases: when a product diversification is achieved, i.e. a new product is introduced, without otherwise starting a whole new business. Therefore, as far as the concept is concerned, this would not be a completely new undertaking, but a new product would be added to its product range. The other is when the company develops by introducing a new procedure. Of course, these grants are aid that the Commission needs to contribute to, as are other types of aid. Moreover, ECB grants and such tax incentives have the same legal basis in the European Union. This provision also includes a financial limitation, which will set the minimum amount of HUF 6 billion in which this type of investment is to be made, or HUF 3 billion if it is an investment that is specifically creating jobs. In addition, it also raises employment needs. It should be realised that in the next four years, i.e. compared to the base year from the start and settlement of the investment, the number of employees must increase by at least 50 persons for four years, or another tax reduction, or another employment target, which means an increase of 300 times the minimum wage for the company. We believe that, by implementing these rules, companies in the Central Hungary region could gain momentum that would not only help large enterprises, help employment, but also provide a supply opportunity for small Hungarian companies on the other side, and these companies could develop from all parts of the country, including from the Central Hungary region, as well as further development. We believe that with these measures Hungary can be further strengthened. I think that it is in everyone's interest here in Parliament and in the government that Hungary should be strengthened from this point of view, and that the prospects that affect the whole region, the region of Central Hungary, which is a strong economic development and in which Hungary is involved, are expected to grow more than 4 percent this year in Hungary, so that these measures will continue to help Hungary to grow from next year, and economic growth will also increase and employment will also be completed. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[István Hollik applauds.]]
u2017-11-02-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will now ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State Tallai has the floor. Here.
u2017-11-02-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The proposed amendment to improve competitiveness by Minister Mihály Varga and Secretary of State Bence Tuzson was drafted in the context of the development tax reduction. The last major amendment to the development tax reduction was made in 2014 in view of the revision of EU law as a background to the tax relief. The development of the proposal also took into account the experience gained after the 2014 changes in the application of the law and the changes to the available sources of support. The priority objective of the proposal before you is to achieve coherence between each type of aid and to further develop the system of development tax relief that has already been successfully implemented, so that each form of aid can have an investment incentive effect together. As a result of the 2014 EU amendment of the regional aid map and the 2014 EU revision of the State aid rules, the call for aid for large enterprises in the Central Hungarian region is possible in a much narrower and much stricter context. The European Commission considers that encouraging investment in the most economically developed region in Hungary is no longer a priority objective. However, it is important to see that there are still many companies in the region that make a major contribution to Hungary's technological and innovation development and to the positive development of the level of employment. [[9.10]] This region is Hungary's knowledge base, the country's centre; it is necessary to strive to maintain a business-friendly business environment and to broaden the range of available benefits as far as possible. At the same time, ensuring the combined callability of the new items proposed and existing benefits can result in positive synergies that can take place not only in the Central Hungary region but also throughout the country. In addition to presenting the positive effects, let me draw your attention to the possibility of drawing the tax benefit, as in the case of existing items, in this case, only after completion of the investment on which the development tax reduction is based and in the case of profitable management. Eligibility is therefore not automatic and must also fulfil the different conditions set out in the Commission's decision and legislation. The State tax and customs authorities shall also verify compliance with the conditions for tax relief in respect of these investments at least once by the end of the third tax year following the first use of the tax relief. The legislation therefore ensures that the benefit is used only by the undertakings following the law. Dear Parliament, I would ask you to support the bill on the basis of the arguments put forward by the author and on the basis of government arguments.
u2017-11-02-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I take it that Mr Tuzson's introductory statement was also reflected in the opinion of the Fidesz Group. [[Fire Bence nods.]] So the lead speaker of the MSZP will be the first speaker, Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I was curious to see who would be the lead speaker of Fidesz, since there is no one else sitting in the Fidesz benches but the rapporteur, and I am very sad to say that we are quite few in the negotiations of an important tax law here in this House. As I see it, I can count on one hand the number of Members sitting in the Chamber with Mr. State Secretary; and I am surprised that the May Other Politics did not consider participation important. But let's get to the point where I couldn't resist this low participation. Dear House, Looks like the Fidesz decided to go on a bad road. In a bad way, because the whole point of his policy, including his tax policy, was to give to those who have it, and not to those who do not, and even to those who do not have one, such as the personal income tax law, who get less of the good. It does, because we remember that several years ago, when we switched to a single-key tax, the very point was to reduce the burden on the highest incomes and to lift the burden on the lowest incomes to an unprecedented extent in Europe. There is no other Member State in the EU where the employer and the employee would have to pay this much together after the minimum wage as in Hungary. This is quite simply a shame in a country where the spread of workers' poverty has become one of the most important social problems, since for those who stay home, this is poverty. But much of the Hungarian workers voted with their feet on this idea and went abroad looking for work to make a living. But let us move on to corporate tax, because that is what the bill is about; I thought it was important to address the personal income tax burden only because this proposal accurately reflects the attitude of the government and the Fidesz fraction. The last time the corporate tax rate was reduced, they followed the same logic: they also made the corporate tax one-key. In practice, this meant that for small business operators the company tax reduction was 1 percentage point, whereas for large companies, multinationals, this tax reduction was indeed substantial, 10 percentage points, since it was reduced from 19 to 9 per cent in the large business community and from 10 to 9 per cent in the small business community, i.e. the company tax was reduced by only 1 percentage point. We have already said that this is a wrong direction, and multinational companies are already receiving significant tax incentives. Multinational companies and large companies in general can expect the government to enter into a separate contract with them, as the Hungarian government will make a separate deal with one company in the framework of the partnership series. Contrary to this, small businesses can expect nothing good, their tax does not decrease substantially, although this would be very important. Of course, you can say that it is natural for a left-wing politician to protect small entrepreneurs against the interests of large entrepreneurs, because it is a traditional left-wing system, unlike conservative values, that it supports the vulnerable, the fallen, the less powerful, the less able, the self-defense, as opposed to those who can enforce their interests because of their power and economic weight. But it is not just that there is a traditional, conservative set of values that supports the rich, which is opposed to a left-wing set of values that traditionally supports low-income people, whether they are workers or employers, such as small businesses. It is also about you simply ignoring the fundamental feature of the country that, while small businesses are in a much more difficult position than multinational companies, they are the largest employer in terms of the number of people employed in the competitive sector. You do not give a substantial tax reduction to hundreds of thousands of the country's largest employers, the small businesses, while those who employ less than a part of the workforce, and they have been properly squandered by the government - the former governments, too, to some extent, in order to create jobs - you now think that these benefits - we are talking about a region - should be further extended instead of supporting and strengthening the position, position, economic strength and viability of small businesses. Unlike your proposal, the MSZP believes that a complex tax package would be needed instead, which would support job creation more effectively than the bill on this table. Our concept - not for the first time in this House - serves precisely the purpose of a complex personal income tax and contribution reduction in the small business community in order to get rid of the tax press on them. It is necessary to abolish the highest tax on the minimum wage for workers in Europe, as the burden of employment for small businesses should be reduced for them, since the small business community employs around two thirds of the workers in the competitive sphere. So we're doing a positive job with the nation's largest employers. In a way, instead of being exactly what they would be in a situation where the government would completely avoid their problems and Fidesz's attention. Dear House, To sum up, instead of improving the situation of large enterprises with further tax incentives, substantial tax reductions, also called for by the MSZP, would be needed in the country for the benefit of the economy, in order to create jobs, reducing the burden on small business operators and the burden on low income workers. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-02-6	Thank you very much. Now the lead speaker of the KDNP is speaking. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik. Here you go. [[9.20]]
u2017-11-02-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that the Christian Democratic People's Party considers the bill before us a useful and good proposal, and we will therefore support it. We consider it the right direction to extend the use of development tax incentives both on a territorial basis for the Central Hungary region and for the type of company or development, i.e. for the development of a new product, for product diversification or for investment in new process innovation. I come from an area in the Danube Bend which has suffered precisely the absence of this proposal in previous years, and even if we look at a larger outlook, we can see that the Danube Bend has actually been the biggest loser of the development policy of the last thirty years by defining the region of Central Hungary by bringing the county of Pest into the same region as Hungary's economic heart, Budapest, which means that the areas of Pest County, and especially the Danube Bend, are extremely bad. For example, it is worth visiting Vác, which is the economic heart and centre of the Danube bend, where you can see that it has a very good geopolitical location, it is also in an excellent place in logistics, it is good for education, so for an enterprise who wants to invest in Hungary, it can find a region with excellent qualities, and it is also close to Budapest, and yet Vác's industrial park has found no investors for a long time, precisely because it saw that it has a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis companies that do not choose the Central Hungary region. I would also like to emphasise, as the Secretary of State Tállai said, that this is not a benefit for all businesses under a subjective right. This is an aid that lays down conditions. It requires an investment of HUF 6 billion and an increase of 50 people over four years. That is why I cannot agree with Mr Sándor Burány, who says that this would put people who already have one. I would say that this support can be used by those who can and want to improve, and so far they have not been able to do so because they were the headquarters of their company in the Central Hungary region. So I think that this development tax reduction supports companies where there is performance, where there is innovation. And on the other hand, I also think that the former system was unfair in some respects. It was unfair because it discriminated against companies in the Central Hungarian region, since they could not benefit from these advantages before and thus clearly had a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis companies established in other parts of the country. I would also like to draw the attention of Sándor Burány to the fact that the support of multinationals, the support of multinational companies arriving in Hungary, we all know that sooner or later it will go down to Hungarian SMEs. If we look today at the largest multinational companies that have come to Hungary and are developing here, investing here, and now more and more people are bringing their research department here, then we can see that these suppliers are increasingly made up of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I think that when in the Central Hungary region, where there are several such larger companies, these companies have access to an opportunity to develop, we also indirectly support Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises supplying them. All in all, then, once again, we consider this a particularly good proposal, and the Christian Democratic People's Party will also support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-02-8	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2017-11-02-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed legislative amendment aims to stimulate the development of the economy by extending the scope of development tax incentives. This effort can be appreciated in order to achieve the economic growth goal. So if we were to look at this alone, then the bill itself and its direction would be eligible. However, the amending proposal before us clearly points out that the current government wants to strengthen the role of large companies in particular, while the multinationals are trying to promote their assembly plants in Hungary. This effort has been seen in several government speeches over the past years. The government wants to turn Hungary into a assembly plant, where millions of Hungarians do low value-added work at the service of international companies. Ladies and gentlemen, This vision is rejected by the majority of Hungarian workers. And he expresses his refusal by going abroad and using his expertise there. This process has been accelerating in recent years, and unfortunately, the government has not been able to or did not want to take any effective or meaningful measures against this phenomenon, and we have been faced with several revelations in recent years when this process has been denied, this trend has been denied, and we have seen that there have been no proposals at all at government level to reverse it, not just to target it, but to achieve it. The legislative amendment proposal representing the interests of large companies is a good opportunity to highlight the real problem, that the Fidesz-KDNP government does not consider the interests of Hungarian SMEs and Hungarian employees as the priority. We have seen this in a number of ways during your governance. Since 2010, this trend has increased. The vision of the current government is not first and foremost strong Hungarian companies or conscious and paid workers at European level. I would like to note here that economic development is, of course, necessary for the presence of international large companies, which Jobbik also recognises and considers important, and we can welcome their active participation, but we will not give tax incentives to assembly plants if there are no workers to work in them. The current situation in the labour market is saddening in all respects, and if we look around the country, we can see that this process can be observed in Eastern Hungary, but in the same way on the western ends, and that migration has increased over the last few years. Only if the conditions for its operation are clear, clear and predictable will an international large company invest in Hungary and reverse its value to the benefit of both the country and its own, but this would require a predictable regulatory environment and a transparent decision-making system. The increase in the number of individual government decisions cannot be regarded as such in any way. And unfortunately, what can be seen, and the players in economic life have also expressed this position over the past period, is that these individual government decisions are indeed the focus, as opposed to having a predictable, predictable vision at their disposal, or to drawing up a medium- and long-term country strategy, on which they could plan their operation, and that the players in economic life could really contribute to the Hungarian economy's strength. And a Hungarian SME will only be strengthened and turned into a large company, which is the other side of the coin, if market conditions at least provide him with equal opportunities and competitive conditions in his own country. But this is not what we can see, and this is not what we can see, and indeed this system of individual government decisions and development tax incentives is not exactly the ideal measures. For example, if we look at how EU funds are being used, we can see that those close to you, our friends, are quickly receiving subsidies, while Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are drowning in the bureaucracy swamp, and they are unable to obtain benefits, they are unable to obtain subsidies, they have made their lives difficult, and there have been no facilitations in order that, when they have made the great commitment to spend 60% of European Union funds on economic development, Hungarian SMEs can also have a substantial access to this. [[9.30]] Here, I would also like to quote Péter Róna's position on multi-level economics, who said:. It is untenable that multinationals in Hungary today receive four times as much support to create a job as Hungarians. We need to finish this right away, we need to go in a different direction. The Jobbik Group represents this position, which is also the focus of our programme. We are committed to ensuring a level playing field, and we want to make the same incentives and discounts available to Hungarian companies after entering the government as to international large companies. In addition, development aid and incentives provided by dubious and doubtful individual government decisions will be reviewed. A different approach must be put in place, honourable Members, to allocate these resources on a value basis, not on the basis of the companies or companies that are close to you. Indeed, everyone who wishes to contribute to the development of the Hungarian economy, who can strengthen the field of research and development, must be helped to provide them with these opportunities. But the direction that is set out, for example, in the bill before us, is radically contrary, so we cannot support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-02-10	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no independent representative in the room; no one has applied for a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to speak in this debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tuzson, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reflect on what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-11	Yeah. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to make a few comments on the opposition speakers' comments. Firstly, I would like to briefly reflect on Sándor Burány's comment. I think it is a little controversial or odd that you are manifesting yourself on this issue, because you were either a State Secretary during the Gyurcsány-, Bajnai-governments, or the President of an Economic Advisory Board with the Prime Minister. Accordingly, you also need to know exactly what the former personal income tax legislation in Hungary looked like, by the way, as the former Minister of Labour. [[Sándor Burány: There was no tax on the minimum wage.]] The 36 percent tax rate was set, starting at a relatively low rate. And I'm saying from a low rate, because in the event that someone, let's say, gets the minimum wage for the current skilled worker, so the guaranteed minimum wage, he'd be under 36 percent tax. [[Sándor Burány: That's not true. You're lying, Congressman. That's not true.]] So this is what the tax system looked like in your case. Don't forget the extent to which the overhead has fallen, unlike your time. One of Europe's tallest utilities has developed into one of the lowest in Europe, which has greatly helped Hungarian workers. And don't forget to what extent, for example, the tax can be written off from the current Hungarian single-key tax system in the case of family tax incentives. And now not only tax benefits can be written down, but also contributions. So an otherwise low income family with two children can bring home almost the entire income in Hungary today. [[Sándor Burány: The family allowance is not increased.]] I have to draw particular attention to this, because we also need to see that taxation in Hungary, the tax system in Hungary, specifically helps those who have families, live in families and have more than one child. The aim is, I think that people in the most difficult situation must be helped through the tax system, and this is what the current tax system is doing, and yet its key is half the size of the 36 percent band you used for most people. What we consider important in Hungary has always been the help of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, small and medium-sized enterprises can, in particular or in many cases, join this production chain as suppliers if they want to join the production chain. They should be given the opportunity to be able to participate in production as suppliers, and to have companies in Hungary, mainly manufacturing companies, which use suppliers in Hungary. We want to continue to promote this process, and it is therefore important that we help innovative businesses. And here I would like to refer to Tibor Bana for a moment, his comment. Either you didn't read this draft legislation thoroughly, which we put on the table, or you're in some kind of misunderstanding. This draft specifically supports innovative companies in Hungary, as it supports procedures, new procedures and the introduction of a new product in different forms. Now, in addition to the ECD, which is based specifically on the same EU rules as the current aid scheme, but this proposal does not apply to EKDs, but to a specific form of use of development tax incentives, which can now be used in an extended way in the Central Hungarian region. I said at the outset that it is specifically about supporting these businesses, supporting innovative businesses, and strengthening suppliers from the other side accordingly. So we should also support small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, as this circle should be viewed uniformly. The Hungarian economy cannot be divided into parts. In it there are large companies, Hungarian and foreign large companies, and there are also small businesses. How does the settlement of a business take place in a country? It always happens when you get into a country, you start some kind of production. If appropriate professionals are developed in that production, then these professionals can become involved in innovation, and then, as innovative businesses, they can flourish in a country in which suppliers can also appear and grow stronger. This is how a country can go ahead in a uniform way, and this can also facilitate the development of the labour market, both for large companies and also for skilled workers and for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is the way to go, and this is what will help the economy in Hungary to develop uniformly, not in a distorted way. Our proposal is precisely to ensure that this can be achieved in a territorially uniform way, i.e. that the region of Central Hungary should not, in some respects, be left behind by other regions, but that this type of aid should also be used for businesses in this region, so that a single country development can be achieved. We would therefore like to go further in this direction, and that is why this provision is important, because it now gives some innovative businesses a tax reduction that will contribute to strengthening the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-02-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on the publication and amendment of the Customs Convention on A.T.A. for the placing of goods under the temporary importation procedure will follow. The government referral is T/17993. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-13	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 24 October, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill for the publication of the Customs Convention on the placing of goods under the temporary importation procedure on A. T. A. card and its amendment. The reason for drawing up the bill is that the Convention or its amendment may be published at a legal level. In order to boost world trade and simplify customs procedures, the World Customs Organisation adopted in December 1961 the Customs Convention on the entry of goods into the temporary importation procedure of A.T.A. With regard to Hungary, the Convention entered into force on 22 February 1966. The purpose of the Convention was to take account of the express wishes of representatives of international trade, operators involved in trade or authorities to facilitate the placing of goods under the temporary importation procedure. The establishment of common procedural rules on the relevance of goods to the temporary importation procedure also has significant advantages for cultural activity. [[9.40]] The Convention itself has also provided benefits to customs authorities and other bodies applying Convention A.T.A. as it has resulted in a higher degree of consistency and unity in the customs systems of the signatory countries. Under the Convention, the Contracting Parties shall accept A.T.A. cards which are valid on their territory and which have been issued and used in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Convention, instead of their national customs documents and as a guarantee of the amount of import duties and other charges payable in the event of entry into circulation. The A.T.A. IDs are issued by the chambers of commerce of the States Parties to the Convention, so the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will carry out this task in Hungary. The A.T.A. card is therefore important not only because it functions as a customs document, but also because it provides customs cover for the payment of any amounts of customs duties that may arise. On the basis of a document issued by an issuing association, each guaranteeing association undertakes to pay the customs authorities import duties and taxes and all other amounts in the event of failure to fulfil the conditions of the customs procedure in respect of goods brought into the territory of one of the Contracting Parties. The Convention was published in Hungary by Decree-Law No 5 of 1966 and entered into force on 23 February 1966. By letter dated 15 March 2017, the World Customs Organisation informed the Contracting Parties to Convention A.T.A. that it had amended the Convention. The purpose of the amendment was, on the one hand, to create the possibility of issuing or using A.T.A. cards by electronic means. The amendment also concerns the procedure for deciding on the modification needs arising from Convention A.T.A. and other measures affecting the application. Before the amendment, it was possible to take decisions if more than half of the Contracting Parties were present at the meeting of the governing committee responsible for decision-making. However, the amendment provides for the possibility of making a decision even if one third of the Contracting Parties attend the meeting in question, thereby making the decision-making mechanism more efficient and faster. Hungary is an active contracting party to the international convention on which the bill is based. Accordingly, in addition to the statutory publication of the proposed amendment, the text of the Convention published by Decree-Law Decree-Law should be published in Hungarian and English, while repealing the Legislative Decree that has been in force since 1966. Dear Parliament, In light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-02-14	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Czomba, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here.
u2017-11-02-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is to update the Customs Convention on A.T.A. for the temporary importation of goods, which has been in force for more than fifty years, as we have just said, which was adopted under the World Customs Organisation in 61 and to which Hungary joined in 66. For more than fifty years, he has successfully regulated the so-called A. T. A. card, the issue of which is managed by the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Hungary. The purpose of A.T.A. is to help farmers when they want to temporarily move their products and tools abroad. This system has been so successful that it has never been necessary to amend this contract in substance before. However, it is now ripe for the amendment of the contract in order to promote the possibilities of electronicisation in the first place. A new electronic system is planned to make the current system better, easier and faster. The amendment before us would also guarantee the legal basis for this future development, which is why I ask my fellow Members with respect to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-02-16	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of the MSZP, Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Contrary to the previous bill, this time there is a document on the Parliament's table that is worthy of support. It is worthy of support because it brings benefits in relation to the temporary importation procedure for goods which facilitates and significantly facilitates the work of the economic operators concerned. The MSZP faction is also willing and able to support any proposal as a opposition party that leads to a reduction in bureaucracy in the world of businesses and the expansion of opportunities. This is a customs convention that gives us the opportunity to do so. In this Convention, the necessary age-appropriate wrinkles have been carried out by the authors. We therefore support this bill on the part of the MSZP fraction. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-11-02-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tibor Bana, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2017-11-02-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Compared to the previous item on the agenda, we are now and at the next item, faced with two legislative proposals which basically make technical changes, so that the Jobbik Group can support them. This is how we will make the bill for the publication of the Customs Convention and the amendment of A.T.A. on the entry of goods into the temporary importation procedure, which should be known to contain amendments to Convention A.T.A. published in 1966. That basically means three things. On the one hand, the agreement previously published did not contain its text in the English language. This one's been replaced. In addition, Article 4 included the fact that the certificate can now be issued electronically. Finally, Article 18 is added that the Contracting Parties may take a valid decision if at least one third of the representatives are present at the meeting. What do you need to know about this A.T.A. I.D.? This is an international customs document allowing the temporary importation of goods duty-free for one year. There are many advantages to this document. It reduces the costs of the exporter, avoids the payment of customs and other taxes, VAT, levies, which would arise during a normal temporary import procedure, and simplifies the customs procedure. The exporter only needs to use one document at the border, less time for customs clearance. It is also worth noting that the range of goods which can be carried with the certificate is limited. Typical goods include exhibitions, installation materials, scientific equipment, medical instruments, tools, machines, cameras, filmmaking tools, instruments, theatre costumes, sets, jewellery, paintings, artworks, antiques, racing horses, and so on. Currently, it is a member of 74 countries, including the countries of the European Union. Intra-Union trade does not require the replacement of a certificate; EU operators should only replace this document in the case of transport to a third country. It can therefore be seen from what has been said that this is an extremely important and useful agreement with which, as I said, only three technical changes are being made. Thus, the Jobbik faction can support the bill, i.e. the publication of the Customs Convention and its amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-02-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There is no independent representative in the room; no one has applied for a two-minute speech. Other speeches may follow. I'm asking if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I find that no, no further comments have been made. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says no. So I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the implementation of EU customs law until closure. The government referral is T/17991. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, author. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-21	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The reason for drawing up the bill is that the Act on General Administrative Rules, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, restates on the basis of the procedural provisions on administrative procedures. However, there are procedures for which the provisions of this Act do not apply. Such an area is the customs administration procedure. It is therefore a duty to lay down, at the level of law, the procedural provisions necessary for the administration of customs duties in the law implementing Union customs law. [[9.50]] It is important to stress that there are already basically procedural rules in the EU Customs Code applied at EU level. However, it is necessary to lay down rules that are not laid down or missing at Union level in the course of the customs procedure at national level. However, there is no reason to draw up specific procedural legislation, as it is still difficult for law-abiding users to apply EU and national legislation at different levels of legal resources. In the course of the presentation, the existing Customs Act was recast and, in addition to the substantive provisions in force, the procedural provisions were incorporated following the structure of the EU Customs Code. When determining the procedural measures, the specific features of the customs administration procedure were taken into account, and therefore certain areas specific to other legal disciplines, such as support, guardian, official intermediary, service manager, use of police in procedural acts, were not included in the draft law. In addition to the development of procedural rules, a substantive review of the existing Customs Act has been carried out, including changes to the provisions of customs controls. In the future, customs controls will be considered to be a single, ex officio procedure in which a decision on detected infringements can be taken. The customs control system highlights the post-transfer check, because it is a deeper, comprehensive control of the content of the type of control, which requires specific regulation. Taking into account the practical experience, the duration of customs controls has been radically reduced by 270 days, and the deadline for checking after the release of goods has been reduced by 90 days. The conditions for granting exemption from VAT are amended because the authorisation, contrary to the current provisions, will no longer be valid for one year, but for an indefinite period in addition to the control mechanism to be carried out by the customs authorities. This will result in an administrative reduction of the burden for the application, both on the economic and customs side. The registration process has been simplified with regard to the provisions necessary for the conduct of customs advisory and customs operations. The procedure for carrying out this activity will no longer be subject to authorisation and the procedure should not be initiated with the customs authorities, but should be notified to the registration body. In the drafting of the law, the legislator was guided by the criteria to create a simple, transparent, easy-to-use law for law-makers, which also facilitates the efficient conduct of customs procedures and reduces administrative burdens on the part of customers and customs authorities. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-02-22	Thank you very much. We now have a speaker's speech, Honourable Parliament. First up is Fidesz's lead speaker, Sándor Czomba. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union is pursuing a common foreign trade policy vis-à-vis outside countries. This policy is based on uniform principles and the relevant regulatory powers have been delegated to the Union by the Member States. The substantive and procedural provisions applicable in the customs administration process are therefore at a separate source of law. To date, customs procedures have been defined by the EU Customs Code, the EU Customs Code Act and the Act on General Rules for Administrative Procedure and Service as underlying requirements. However, the law on the new general administrative statute which will enter into force from 1 January of next year highlights customs procedures from under its scope, and a separate procedural law is therefore necessary. The bill before us serves this purpose. The substantive provisions on the enforcement of EU customs law, as set out in the laws currently in force, do not change, with some exceptions. Once the procedural provisions have been incorporated, the structure of the law in force will remain. The bill is divided into five structural units. It shall contain in particular the procedural principles which must always be borne in mind in the course of the customs procedure. The second part shall specify, inter alia, the arrangements for the application and the ex officio administrative procedure, customs representation, procedural acts, remedies and procedural costs, followed by the rules for the ex post control procedure concerning the holders of payments directly or indirectly linked to the financing system of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, or its debtors or representatives, and, finally, the provisions relating to the carrying out of the activities of customs advisers and customs agents. Ladies and gentlemen, Foreign trade is of paramount importance to the Hungarian economy. It is in the primary interest of both exporting and importing operators to keep the customs controls as short as possible. We therefore welcome the approach taken by the national authorities to reduce the duration of customs control procedures and procedures following the release of goods, thereby reducing the administrative burden on the persons subject to control. With regard to the customs administration procedure initiated on request, the customs authorities shall first accept the application if it complies with the basic conditions laid down and only after that shall the actual administration commence, during which the decision on the application shall be taken without delay and not later than 120 days after the receipt of the application. It is not possible to determine the periods not to be included in the time limit for administration or to suspend the procedure. With regard to ex officio procedures, the deadline for administration was 90 days, as has been said, but, for example, for customs controls, surveillance, post-transfer checks, which therefore constitute a general exception. In the case of ex officio proceedings, it is possible to suspend the procedure and to set periods not to be included in the time limit for administration. We also consider that, in the context of the authorisation for exemption from VAT, the licence holder does not have to submit the new licence application every year, but the conditions for the presence of an open-ended licence are examined by the customs authorities on their own initiative. This is also intended to reduce customer burdens. It is further facilitated that the registration process will be simplified with regard to the provisions necessary to carry out the activities of customs advisers and customs agents, because notification of the activity can be made directly to the registration body instead of the previous two-stage process. Dear House, The Fidesz fraction supports the national approach that procedural provisions are summarised in a single-structure bill, which makes the task of enforcers much easier. By putting the proceedings in addition to the substantive provisions, the author establishes a much simpler and easier applicable law, since the proposal will be effective for the daily work of the law-makers. Therefore, the Fidesz fraction supports the proposal, and I call on the representatives of the other parties in Parliament to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-02-24	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Attila Mesterházy, is next. Here.
u2017-11-02-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Given that both the Secretary of State and my Fidesz fellow Member have analysed and mentioned in detail the conditions and circumstances that are relevant for the adoption of this law, I would therefore overlook both EU and Ket. or a detailed description of the customs law in force. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to one thing, which is also included in the proposal, but I think that this is perhaps the only thing worth mentioning from the opposition side, that it is very right and good to reduce administrative burdens, and that it is also good to have time limits shortened by the legislator. [[10.00]] It is worth noting that this does not cause problems that the inspection plans, the control plans, cannot be implemented as appropriate. So in Hungarian: resources must be available from both a human and a budgetary point of view, so that control plans that remain in force can be implemented, so to speak, by law enforcement authorities. I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to this and, moreover, the MSZP faction considers the proposal to be eligible. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-26	Thank you very much. Congressman István Hollik, the lead speaker of KDNP, is next. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, it has been said that there is, in fact, a legislative imperative, since the Ket. It will be repealed from 1 January 2018 and the General Administrative Regulation Act will enter into force on 1 January 2018 and it is therefore appropriate to establish a new law in which the existing Customs Act will be recast. Indeed, my fellow Member, Mr Czomba, said the details of these, and I think that the measures - which, for example, set a clearer and shorter time limit for the time limit for administration, or the check after the release of goods from customs control - will be easier to apply - are all steps that create a clear, clear and clear system of relations for law enforcement. Therefore, this law will be supported by KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-02-28	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, lead speaker of the Jobbik is coming.
u2017-11-02-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already done at the previous item on the agenda, this bill can be supported by Jobbik's faction, as it is a proposal of a basic technical nature when we are discussing the draft law on the implementation of EU customs law here in Parliament. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, shall enter into force. Act No 8 re-regulates the provisions relating to administrative procedures, of which Article 8 § 2 of the Act defines the procedures for which Ákr. is not covered by this Regulation. Such a procedure is also an administrative procedure and should be governed by a separate customs law. This means, in practice, the so-called Ket., the 2004 CXL on the general rules for administrative procedural services. It is a law, and in this law, the procedural provisions, which have been adapted to the sector in some places, are being transposed. The bill before us is made up of five parts. In the first part, the procedural principles and the general procedural rules to be taken into account by the customs authorities in the course of their proceedings were laid down. In the second part, the rules of procedure, representation, procedural acts, redress, customs control were laid down, and the third part included the ex post control procedure concerning the holders or debtors or representatives of payments directly or indirectly linked to the financing system of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund. The fourth part lays down the necessary provisions for the conduct of customs and customs operations, while the fifth part contains the final provisions, where transitional provisions for pending cases have been drawn up. Before our accession to the EU, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of customs was the sovereign power of our country, within frameworks such as GATT, WTO. Since we entered the Community, customs legislation has been divided into two categories. EU legislation is directly applicable in all Member States, while national legislation complements EU legislation, is valid in that Member State and, of course, should not conflict with EU law. So, as I indicated at the beginning, Jobbik's faction supports the bill, since it essentially means putting an existing practice and law into a new framework. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-02-30	Thank you very much. We're at the end of the lead speaker's round. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I will ask honourable Members whether they wish to speak on this issue. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak. [[András Tállai says no.]] Mr. Secretary of State Tallai says no. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a joint general debate on the draft law on taxation and the draft law on tax administration until closure. Government referrals T/17994. and T/1795. available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposals are being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, author. Here.
u2017-11-02-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The objective pursued by the tax administration rules and the tax rules is to create a transparent, understandable and easy-to-follow regulatory environment and to strengthen the nature of the tax administration service provider. The proposals also include institutionalised support for voluntary legislaters. We have sought to review the procedural deadlines and the remedy procedure to establish procedures that can reasonably be concluded within a time-frame. In the legislative proposals, we also set out the objective of reducing the administrative burden on taxpayers and making it easier to fulfil their tax obligations. One of the objectives set out at the beginning of the current government cycle was the establishment of a customer-centred tax administration, several elements of which, such as the taxpayer rating, the preparation of a draft personal income tax return by the tax authority, and the support procedure for compliance with tax legislation have already been introduced. This process is closed by the Tax Administration Act and the Tax Rules Bill, which is closely linked to the special bill on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority. The bill before the National Assembly on tax administration also meets the requirement of a short scale, transparency and clarity in terms of international comparison, as it is shorter and more transparent than the German tax administration law, which serves as the original model of Polish, Czech, Slovak, Romanian or domestic tax administration regulations. However, it should be pointed out that the reform of the tax system is not only reflected in the reregulation but also in the organizational renewal of the National Tax and Customs Office, which is framed by the NAV 2.0 programme. A number of international examples have been taken into account in the development of the programme, bringing together best international practices. The Estonian and UK tax authorities serve as a model for strengthening service providers, and an example of an innovative organisation is the Danish and US tax authorities, active human capital and the provision of up-to-date knowledge should take into account Italian, Austrian and Finnish practices. It is also adapted to this organizational renewal programme, which is the unit of re-regulation of the system of taxation, which appears in the two legislative proposals before us. As regards the re-regulation of the current tax law, it is also important that it considers the tax administration procedure to be excluded from the scope of the General Administrative Regulation Act which will enter into force from 1 January 2018. It is therefore necessary, in the context of the re-regulation of the tax procedure, to establish a general procedural legislation that has not been the property of the tax procedure so far, but has been provided by the Act on General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service, which will expire on 31 December 2017. This general procedural set of rules is included in the other tax bill, the bill on tax administration, taking into account the specificities of the tax procedure. It sets out, inter alia, provisions on the taxpayer, the tax authority, the rules on contacts, the tax authority's decision, the control and redress provisions. [[10.10]] The bill proposes the introduction of new principles, which are the principle of professional and effective procedures and the principle of clarity. On the basis of the principle of professional and efficient procedure, the tax authority should organise its activities in a way that, in the interests of professionalism, efficiency and, not least, saves costs, while fully fulfilling its obligation to clarify the facts, closes its procedures as quickly as possible, in such a way that the taxpayer, other parties to the procedure and the tax authority bear the least cost. This principle lays down a real requirement for the tax authority to comply with which the tax authority must ensure by various means of organizational development. This is not only in the interests of taxpayers, but also of the tax authorities, as it is a fundamental requirement in the context of taxation that the operation of the tax administration be as efficient as possible and cheaper from the budgetary side. As a rule in the interest of taxpayers, it is proposed that, on the basis of the principle of clarity, the language of relations with taxpayers in the tax administration procedure should be simple and understandable. The emphasis on the principle of clarity is intended to ensure that, in tax administration procedures, the tax authority seeks to use, as far as possible, a simple language that can be interpreted by non-tax experts when communicating with taxpayers. This principle has a key role to play in providing taxpayers with information that actually facilitates the fulfilment of their tax obligations. As a result of the principle of clarity, it is not enough for the tax authority to inform the taxpayer of the legal obligations in force, but to do so in a clear way. According to the bill, the control structure will be simplified. The current legislation regulates seven different types of controls, which, based on practical experience, are difficult to understand and transparent for taxpayers; in many cases, despite the information received, it does not know exactly what the control is aimed at and what the consequences may be. The bill therefore significantly reduces the number of types of checks and only names two types of checks. These are the follow-up checks and the tax checks. In the framework of the follow-up investigation, the tax authority may check whether the taxpayer has complied with certain administrative tax obligations imposed by law, collect data, and examine the reality of economic events. In the course of the tax control, the tax authority examines the fulfilment of the tax liability of the taxpayer by tax, grant and periodic basis, i.e. that is the type of control that can be clearly identified when the tax authority examines in substance whether the debtor has established its tax base or tax base in accordance with the legal requirements. If not, the taxpayer shall impose a tax margin on or in favour of the taxpayer, where appropriate, a penalty. The bill sets a maximum deadline for tax control, according to which the duration of the tax control should not exceed 365 days in any case. In fact, there is a fundamental interest in the conclusion of tax controls on sometimes extremely complex, multi-stakeholder schemes within a reasonable period of time, eliminating the dependent situation, whether in part in terms of the management of the taxpayer or in terms of the management of the taxpayer concerned, which could be the result of a tax control. With regard to taxpayers who are not obliged to register, the maximum period of 180 days under the law in force is maintained, which can only be exceeded if the taxpayer hinders control. However, the basic monitoring deadlines remain unchanged, i.e. the deadline for the follow-up investigation is 30 days, the deadline for the tax control is 90 days, while for taxpayers with the highest tax performance and 120 days for centralised controls. Furthermore, in order to prevent the delay in the checks, the time limit for checks will cease to exist, so that, according to the bill, the time limit for checks will not be interrupted, for example, during the period of the related investigation and of the request abroad. It will only be possible to extend the inspection deadline in justified cases, which, however, should it be extended, should not exceed the maximum control period, i.e. 365 days. Dear Parliament, The bill also amends the provisions on redress. In accordance with the rules in force, the possibility of appeal is maintained against the decisions and orders of the tax authority. However, it is a significant change that, according to the bill, the appeal or the appeal proceedings cannot be brought to establish a new fact or to present new evidence on which the person entitled to appeal was aware before the first instance decision was taken, but did not submit it despite the request of the tax authority. The introduction of this provision is justified by the fact that taxpayers are in many cases, essentially when they are aware of their non-compliance, in the early closure of checks. They know that the more they delay the procedure, the later they present substantial evidence, the more chances of a limitation period of the tax ruling period when the tax authority is no longer able to determine. In order to achieve this, the taxpayer is therefore often only submitting in court evidence which was already available to him during the verification procedure, but, as a result of its subsequent submission, the court instructs the tax authority to carry out a new procedure, i.e. the tax authority has to repeat the verification. This means a great deal of extra work for the tax authority, where appropriate, to the court that is required to repeat, and not least to prejudice the interests of budgetary revenue. The efficiency of the second-degree tax administration procedure is served by increasing the possibility of a superior body to take action in the review of the first-level decision. According to the bill, if the second-degree tax authority acting on the basis of an appeal does not have enough data at its disposal for decision-making or if further clarification of the facts is required, it does not necessarily have to annul the revised decision and instruct the first-degree tax authority to proceed to a new procedure, but will have the possibility for the superior body to take action itself to supplement the facts. In this context, you can instruct the tax authority at first instance to carry out the necessary procedural actions without restarting the whole procedure. With this new licence, the second-degree tax authority will be able to remedy the shortcomings it has identified in its own proceedings, which will also result in a reduction in the number of judicial reviews. At present, as an exceptional remedy, an application for a supervisory measure in any tax case may be submitted to the tax authority at any time within the limitation period, even several times in the same case. In order to ensure that the procedures are completed as soon as possible, the bill narrows the possibility of submitting requests for supervision measures both on the subject and on time. An application for a supervisory measure against the same decision or order may be lodged only once within one year of the date on which the decision becomes final. Dear Parliament, The bill is set out in Annex XXI. Meeting the challenges of the 20th century and meeting the provisions of the Law on electronic administration, including the tax administration, the rules on relations between the taxpayer and the tax administration, are substantially amended. Although electronic administration already has a major role to play in tax procedures - it is enough to think about electronic returns or e-says - electronic administration is only possible under the rules in force in the tax cases listed in law. The bill makes the possibility of electronic administration complete in accordance with the e-Justice Act, by the way, while maintaining the scope of those who are still responsible for electronic reporting. [[10.20]] Natural persons will be able to communicate electronically with the tax authority, but they will also be able to use other means of contact with the tax authority, such as the postal route. In the bill before Parliament, the possibility of using representation ensures that the taxpayer or the person liable to pay the tax is able to use a representative if he does not wish or cannot act in person. Representations based on authorisation may be permanent or ad hoc in tax administration procedures. Compared to previous legislation, the bill removes the professional requirements of the Member, with the exception of some cases involving compulsory professional representation, making it easier for taxpayers to process through the representative. The tax rate of the bill lists who may represent legal persons and other entities with a permanent mandate before the Ministry of Taxation, which is led by the Minister for Taxation. With regard to those acting with permanent power of attorney, the bill continues to define the professional circle who are entitled to represent them. Honourable Members, In addition to and in conjunction with the general tax procedure rules, this House is discussing the bill on taxation. This bill contains the rules for certain types of procedural tax liabilities, such as registration, tax identification number determination, tax registration procedure, tax methods, tax returns, tax rules, deadlines for fulfilment of obligations, reporting requirements. In addition, the bill contains rules on the registration of tax administrations, as well as sanctions that may be imposed in the tax administration procedure in the case of infringements. One of the priority objectives of re-regulation of the tax procedure is the establishment of a service provider's tax authority and customer-centred tax administration services. The tax authority also provides a number of services to taxpayers under the current rules, with new elements added to their rules in a separate section of the bill. Some of the services are intended to assist in fulfilling the tax obligations, such as the operation of the customer information and administration system, the provision of data processing, and the security of the market, by providing information on economic operators and ensuring their ability to know. The latter appears as a new element in the bill to publish reliable taxpayers. From 1 January 2016, the State tax and customs authorities shall, on the basis of the examination of the conditions laid down by law, classify, on a quarterly basis, taxpayers liable to register a company and VAT-registered taxable persons which, according to the bill, expand the scope to include group taxable persons. Reliable taxpayer quality proves compliance with the conditions, a kind of a positive logo with informative content for market participants as well. Reliable taxpayer quality is currently not public data, but the bill would make it accessible to anyone, which could help make it easier for taxpayers to find out about their partners in economic activity. From 1 January 2018, the State tax and customs authorities will support new economic operators as mentors in order to provide start-ups with sufficient information to provide information in the tax mazes. The tax authority initiates personal contact, provides free information on tax obligations and on the availability of information to assist in their fulfilment. At the same time, it is an important element that participation in mentoring is voluntary. The objective of the review of the legal consequences was to make the sanctioning system, in particular the fine of default regulation, more transparent. In order to reduce the number of appeals lodged solely for the purpose of delaying, the institution of the conditional tax penalty is introduced, according to which, if the taxpayer waives his right of appeal against the decision of the Court of First Instance and pays the tax margin provided for in the decision until due date, he shall be exempt from payment of 50% of the tax penalty imposed. As regards the default fine, a general fine has been entered into the Tax Code in respect of tax obligations, in addition to which special default penalty rules relate only to specific facts. These include, for example, the violation of black employment, the obligation to issue invoices, receipts and the rules on online cash registers. There is also a specific exemption rule in the proposal that the taxpayer cannot be sanctioned if the taxpayer has acted as set out in the prospectus published on the tax authority's website. This provision may be applied as from 1 January 2018 in respect of prospectuses published on the website of the tax authority on the interface created for this purpose. According to the bill, increased tax authority supervision will cease as of 1 January 2018. In accordance with the transitional rules, the enhanced tax authority supervisory procedures on 1 January 2018 should be terminated by the State tax and customs authorities and the enhanced tax authority supervision on 1 January 2018 terminated on its own initiative without issuing a State tax and customs decision. The legal institution for the suspension of the tax number will also be released as of 1 January 2018, i.e. the ongoing procedures will have to be terminated and the suspension of the tax number at the date of entry into force of the law will be terminated by NAV of its own motion at the date of entry into force of the law. On the global competitiveness rankings of the World Economic Forum, published in September 2017, Hungary is now ranked 60th, which hopefully will also make a significant contribution to further progress on the rankings by improving the domestic tax environment in international comparison. Dear Parliament, The adoption of the legislative proposals before you is necessary in order to enable the tax authority to carry out its current and future tasks in a properly regulated legal framework. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-02-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. In the first round, the speech will be given by the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Sándor Czomba, opens the line. Here.
u2017-11-02-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The ideal tax system serves both the interests of taxable persons and public finances. This can only be achieved effectively by a new tax administration system that meets today's challenges, and it is therefore necessary to review the current system. The two legislative proposals before us create a short, transparent, understandable and easy-to-follow regulatory environment in the area of taxation, which effectively supports the further strengthening of voluntary enforcement. By strengthening the nature of the NAV service provider and reviewing the sanctioning system, the elimination of excessive and unjustified penalties, a tax administration procedure can be established which also significantly facilitates the situation of taxpayers. Dear House, The new Tax Administration Act contains a number of facilitations that make the lives of taxable persons easier. We consider this to be the case, which has already been pointed out by the Secretary of State, that the previous seven types of checks will be replaced by two procedures, the follow-up investigation and the tax control. This will make the regulation of procedures much more transparent, which will help to strengthen enforcement behaviour. It is also positive that a maximum limit is set for all procedures for the maximum time limit for checks. The one-year procedural deadline typically reduces the uncertainty caused by the prolonged tax procedures for small and medium-sized enterprises. [[10.30]] With regard to taxpayers who are not obliged to register, the maximum period of 180 days under the current law is maintained, which can only be exceeded if the taxpayer's behaviour hinders control. It further accelerates the procedures to eliminate all inspection deadlines and rest reasons. According to the motion, no new facts or new evidence of which the person entitled to appeal was aware before the first instance decision was taken may be raised in the appeal or in the proceedings initiated on the basis of an appeal, but which he did not submit despite the request of the tax authority. This provision is expected to prevent the application of a court-barring procedural tactic in which some taxpayers presented their substantive evidence only at the trial stage, resulting in the court being forced to instruct the tax authority to proceed with a new procedure. This is also necessary because the proceedings often go by the expiry of the tax ruling period, so that the tax authority could no longer make a finding and the avoidance of tax was not sanctioned. We also expect further acceleration of the procedures from the measure to increase the possibility of a superior body to take action in the review of the first instance decision, by allowing it to carry out procedural actions to clarify the facts itself. In order to ensure that the procedures are completed as soon as possible, it is proposed that an application for supervision measures against the same decision or order may be submitted only once within one year of the date on which the decision becomes final. The way forward is to introduce electronic procedures in all areas of public administration. The tax procedure cannot be excluded from this. In the economic competition between the countries of the world, it is increasingly important how easy it is to comply with the various administrative requirements and how much they are a burden for economic operators. This is particularly true of the Member States of the European Union. We therefore particularly welcome the amendment that fully allows for electronic administration in the area of tax administration. Ladies and gentlemen, Another subject of the ongoing debate is the draft law on the rules of taxation, which also includes additional facilitations compared to the legislation in force. The most important of these, perhaps, is that the National Tax and Customs Office will release the late payment of less than HUF 5 000 in the future, and does not require the payment of it to the taxable person. This change will not only benefit debtors but also reduce the burden for the public authorities, since the management and implementation of small amounts of bonus debt is disproportionately high. Several fines, including unlawful tax relief, breach of the obligation to hold an account and a fine replacing the closure of a business, as well as the suspension of the tax number, have been removed from the legislation. In order to reduce appeals lodged only for the purpose of stalling and to ease the situation of debtors who have demonstrated basically a follow-up but have made a minor error and who are therefore subject to a tax penalty, the conditional tax fine will be introduced. On this basis, if the taxpayer waives the appeal against the decision on the findings of the tax control and pays the required tax margin until the due date, it shall be exempt from payment of 50% of the tax fine imposed. We also welcome the change that in the future support for start-ups will appear as a new service for the NAV, where the tax authority would provide professional support for six months. We consider it a significant, forward-looking step towards digitalisation to provide an online interface for taxpayers to log in and report changes, thereby significantly reducing the burden of fulfilling their obligations and speeding up procedures. Dear House, The Fidesz fraction will support both legislative proposals because they represent a significant step forward in promoting tax compliance and include a number of facilitations and process-accelerating provisions which both serve to better inform individuals in tax matters and improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-11-02-34	Thank you very much. Now it's time for the head speaker of the MSZP. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here.
u2017-11-02-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2016, the government decided to redefine this tax administration law, which, according to press reports, did not progress so smoothly, as the Prime Minister has thrown this proposal back on several occasions, according to press reports, because he was dissatisfied with the work of the NGM. I regret that the Prime Minister has not been so squeamish about other tax regulations in the past, because it is worth recalling that you promised to simplify the tax system and abolish taxes already in 2010, and the Prime Minister almost said that you will create a tax system that is not only completely transparent, simple, but that everyone in Hungary will actually tax with happiness, and that tax revenue will increase greatly in Hungary. Therefore, it may be worth looking at what has been done in this past, now almost eight years, because it is perhaps in light of this that it is sensible and worthwhile to look at how to get on with this idea. They started with, and I would like to highlight only one or two things that are perhaps the best hallmarking of your tax changes, and I would like to start with the abolition of the minimum wage tax, so today, in 2017, Hungary will tax the minimum wage to the highest extent and hardest among all OECD Member States, and will certainly put millions of employees in a difficult position, as this is certainly not a positive development for minimum wage earners. Then I have to mention the single-key tax system. We have always said that we are saying that this single-key tax system is unfair on one side, because it favours those who already have higher incomes, higher salaries, and punishes those who have to live on a smaller salary, while I understand that you do not regard the tax system as a social policy instrument in some respects, but it could and should, for the sake of justice, have such a balancing role. So in Hungarian, it is the progressive tax system that is more appropriate in terms of justice and social goals. Not to mention that the budget has also given up a huge amount of revenue, since it has created a serious hole in the budget. About 400-500 billion in budget revenue was lost in the Hungarian budget because of this single-key tax. It is perfectly natural that this loss of revenue has also been suffered by many on the expenditure side, so education, health or social policy are most visible, because the only way to balance or balance expenditure, debt and revenue is to balance expenditure in a close balance. That is why we have talked many times about the fact that you have actually made very serious cuts in the last eight years, and the main areas of these restrictions have been education, health, social policy and, in some respects, pensioners. I could also mention that the civil servant's salary has not been raised for seven years. So in Hungarian, even in terms of wage planning, they caused serious damage to this tax policy. Then, the third thing I would like to mention is that in 2010, you were apostulating yourself so that you will be the government of tax reductions, so you will lead to a large number of tax types, reducing the rate of these taxes in Hungary. Compared to this, VAT is the highest VAT rate in Europe, 27 percent, and this key is also referred to by many as the tax of the poor, as everyone has to pay for it as well. But they didn't fail to introduce new taxes either. Let me mention a few things: the special tax on severance payments, the transaction tax, the special tax on telecoms, utility tax, insurance tax, accident tax, advertising tax, tourism development contribution, and, by the way, we could continue with the new taxes that you have introduced in the last seven or eight years. They promised, of course, that one part of these taxes would not be paid by the taxpayers, the people, especially the ones that were adopted as separate taxes, but it is natural and clear that the amount of these taxes was simply passed on to the population by the companies, the service providers, and this special tax appears in the yellow cheques. It is true that it is in a tricky form, since it does not directly affect people, but indirectly, they are certainly the ones who suffer the rise in the price of various services, and therefore have to pay more for them. [[10.40]] It is also clear that the Prime Minister also spoke earlier about the fact that in 2010 there will be room for tax returns on some kind of beer mat. Not only does it not fit on a beer mat, but everything about it has become more complicated. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] This simplification did not succeed at all, as the number of central taxes almost doubled, from 34 to 60. Where they were reduced, as I have just mentioned, with the single-key tax system, but when we talk about companies, in terms of corporate tax, I have to say to both of them that they have done this unfairly, as I have just said, or in a completely opposite way to their own communication. You like to call yourself politicalising against multinational companies, and helping Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Compared to this, these corporate tax changes did indeed benefit multinationals and banks, as these changes left nearly HUF 150 billion in the largest multinational companies. So what you can see, or you can sum up your tax policy, is a tax reduction for the rich, for the multinationals, and a tax increase for the minimum wagers. After such a process, the opposition representative reaches out very carefully to such a proposal and reads with great care all its parts, because they have always acted contrary to communication when they talk about tax simplification or about a type of tax reform that simplifies the lives of ordinary taxpayers. In English, it is very difficult to believe the slogan that was written in the explanatory statement that the government wanted to create a simple system and a service tax authority. The Hungarian entrepreneurs certainly have a different opinion about the nature of the service provider to the tax authority. What is visible in the draft itself is that the system of redress is narrowed down, leaving control detail rules to simple government regulations alone is not very eligible, and now it cannot be excluded that, like the previous Taós case, there are additional hidden amendments in these proposals. So now it seems to us, as a clear continuation of the previous history, that they want to establish a tax administration that they have created, that is to say, a tax administration that is in their own interests, that is, in their own party interests, and that is to say, a tax administration that is favourable to their own friends. After all, it is clear that there are always exceptions to the reform of the tax system, and these exceptions are usually always linked to fidesz entrepreneurs or to different mates, either Andy Vajna or anyone else in your environment. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction, and we did not support their tax laws either, because it is unfair, opaque, not professionally founded and serves only their own party interests, so we will not support this bill either. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman István Hollik, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to jump back up until 2010. Then Fidesz-KDNP made the promise: besides bringing the country back from the brink of bankruptcy and repairing the country, it will create a good state. The criteria of a good state in our interpretation mean that the state provides quality services, considers digitalisation as an opportunity, and one of the perhaps most important guiding principles was that people should not be adapted to public services, but that they should be adapted to the expectations of the Hungarian people. If we look at the last seven years, then the transformation of state and state services took place in this very spirit. When we look back at the creation of government windows, where one-stop shops were possible, instead of what was before 2010, where 17 administrative bodies had to deal with the affairs of a company or individual individually, all of them were pulled behind the government windows and all matters could be settled through a window. The government windows are open from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. in order to ensure that Hungarians do not have to take leave in order to deal with a state-related matter. Or we can also see that the scope of electronically dealt with is increasing. Here I would like to respond briefly to the speech of my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy, who said that he did not keep the Fidesz-KDNP government's promise that tax returns would become simpler, the promise in 2010 was that within a few years there would be a beer mat-sized tax return. I'd like to point out that we don't need a beer mat anymore, because the e-sya confession is working. I think this system that just started shows what it's like to be a modern, good public service. The e-sja confession is transparent, simple and works immediately. There was no interruption in his operation. Each taxpayer can easily and simply use it, and all he has to do is that when he enters this interface, this page will bring up his own tax returns, which he actually only has to approve. Nor do I think it is a coincidence that the Association of Informatics Entrepreneurs in 2017 awarded this system, the e-sja system, without the IVSZ ever awarded a public service, a public website or a public portal. It was the first time. I think that this also shows, in my view, in addition to the citizens' satisfaction, that we are talking about a truly well-functioning system here. I think that the bill that lies before us is a bill, because it is two, it fits into this line, so it is trying to make the work of the tax authority a service provider and a customer friend, as Mr. State Secretary said. I would like to highlight some changes that I think are very good at showing the direction in which the NAV intends to move. For example, in the case of the management of small amounts of bonus liabilities, its implementation was disproportionately high at NAV, so the late payment of less than HUF 5 000 would not be required by NAV. At present, this threshold is HUF 2 thousand. Or, for example, there is the rate of the tax fine: according to current rules, 200 percent of the tax deficit is currently included in the draft, and the fine would be reduced to 100 percent. Or there was the institution, the suspension of the tax number, which was often an insurmountable problem for taxpayers, because while certain rights of a taxpayer were limited to an undertaking, it was able to engage in economic activity and it had to comply with its related tax obligations. This kind of duality was often incomprehensible to taxpayers. Therefore, this draft will put an end to this legal institution. I consider it of particular importance, and I believe that it is a particularly innovative solution to support start-ups as a new service for the NAV by introducing a 6-month, voluntary, professional support period for start-ups, thus helping them to meet their tax obligations as easily as possible. [[10.50]] I also think that the new approach is shown by the simplification of the control structure. In the current system, the law included seven types of controls, which would be reduced to two in total under the new legislation, to follow-up checks and tax checks. And there are also changes in terms of remedies. But what did not get enough emphasis here in the debate on the bill is that the bill seeks to complete the possibility of electronic administration in accordance with the Law on Electronic Administration. I think it's a huge step and the logical development of e-sya. I consider this to be a very important step, which will substantially help companies' tax measures. Further simplification is the removal from the law of the professional requirements previously imposed on the Member in respect of ad hoc powers, thus facilitating the procedure by the Member for taxpayers, and, of course, the law would continue to define the professional circle for those who are entitled to represent them. So I think that although the text of the law, the text of the norm, is indeed long, the reason why tax matters are completely removed from the law on general administrative regulations that will enter into force in 2018, it was therefore necessary to establish a completely new regulation, so the norm is long, but the objective is quite clear: strengthening the nature of the tax authority service provider, institutionalised support for voluntary law-abiders, establishing procedures that can be closed within a reasonable time and, of course, reducing the administrative burden on taxpayers. We therefore consider this a particularly good and forward-looking proposal, and the KDNP will therefore support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-02-38	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here.
u2017-11-02-39	Mr President, Dear House, One has become accustomed to the fact that, when tax matters or tax administration cases come before the House, once again the representatives speak from parallel universes, from the government side it is quite different what, by the way, in Hungarian reality or in the accounting profession, is quite clear and obvious that the tax increases and the government of the rich - we are talking about you - have ravaged more than sixty types of taxes known by the accounting profession, or the type of tax increases - with a very ugly word - in recent years, and has given some kind of cosmetic concession. Take basic foods, for example, where some concessions have been made in a manner that affects 6-7 percent of the average Hungarian family's consumer basket. However, it is worth calling on the OECD rankings, which I am not very fond of, but which help me with orientation, where, Mr Secretary of State, the big situation is that in Hungary the tax burden of an average family of two children is the fourth most harsh among the OECD member countries concerned. This is not a matter for me to argue with, but for the organisation concerned. So the thing is, if you look at the childless tax burden of a single person, it is the worst in some segments and in certain age groups among OECD countries. So here we are now, from this point of view, we should also help the situation with this proposal. I add that there are good elements to this proposal. I have found positive elements in both legislative proposals, and we have found some that are at least worrying, but in general the tax policy of the government is very, very far from the idyllic picture that you have painted. If you look at the advantages brought to you by single-key taxation and how this was taken back on the other side, then you can see that the range of beneficiaries is very, very narrow, signifying to the social segments of the upper middle class, since the taxes of the poor, as you have rightly said, do so with the 27 percent VAT lawnmower, and they repel the benefits that have been distributed to everyone, and make this situation even more difficult with their exotic tax types. We often refer to the shampoo tax that does not affect me, or the transaction tax that you have left to pass on to consumers in full, or the banking sector special tax that can be declared to be passed on in full even in the light of the examination of bank results. So your tax system not only involves chaotic but also far greater withdrawals than the tax system of the socialists that I do not like, where at least minimum wage earners did not pay taxes, or the tax credit institution contained such facilitations that the most difficult ones were not in such a difficult situation, even though they were not in an easy situation. But it would be very, very difficult to talk about this tax system. In the two laws before us, it is worth a bit to be absorbed or, for the time being, in a draft legislation, although in the Hungarian Parliament it can be treated as a virtually complete fact that what you are submitting does not accept an improved amendment, but let us consider it for the sake of fairness and the record, because there is no other meaning in opposition speeches. Obviously, simplification is a clear legitimate need, which we have been listening to for 27 years, but the fact that tax administration rules will be torn apart into two laws, and then further laws will be attached to this, since this does not end in the series of paragraphs on the operation of the NAV, so a separate law will come before Parliament, this will indeed cause serious disputes, and in many cases it will be difficult to decide which legislation is stronger. And we also need to see that you yourself have embellished the concept of a single code, which will ultimately come to an end with these more legislative proposals and future accessions, although there are absolutely positive remarks, referrals in this bill that I like. This is the six-month mentoring of start-ups. This system could be implemented very well by assigning appropriate tools, but if we look at the new rules in the case of appeals, we can see that there are serious restrictions in the system, which we cannot yet tell how they affect the average citizen, the average taxpayer. For example, the fact that it will no longer be possible to refer to the tax authority for a new fact or evidence that was known and previously at the disposal of the company - this would be a logical condition - but at the same time untested and unprepared - is a hotbed of the mass of disputes. So it's unpredictable how this system will be manageable. However, under the current rules, a request for supervisory measures may be submitted to the tax authority at any time within a limitation period, and in the future it will only be possible to do so within a year and only once. I would like to ask for a justification for this, however, for the reason of the tightening up of the limitation period, but within a year it will limit the possibility of appeal, which, if not unlimited, was much wider. And we also need to see that my fellow Member Hollik has said that about two of the seven types of controls remain. Well, that wouldn't be a problem, but I'm gonna have to argue a little bit about your beer mat, because even if you don't think I need a beer mat for tax returns, well, what's gonna cause the real problems here is your chaotic system. In order to indicate, where appropriate, the correct data in a lower declaration than beer mat and to obtain all kinds of data in accordance with the legislation in force, make it available, this will be the nearly impossible task. What are you doing? Today, the administrative procedure will be dismantled into two laws, it will be bound by the Act on NAV and we do not know what it is yet. And if we look only at what kind of legislation a self-employed person should be aware of, or a simple CEO, or any Hungarian citizen, we see that if he wants to be a legal follower and give to the emperor as a good Christian, which is the Emperor's and God's, then the two future laws, so that only what we are discussing now, he must be aware of more than 400 paragraphs, which will be further increased by the NAV procedure, so we are expected to browse and study more than half a thousand standard texts, follow his daily updates and be aware of them. By comparison, the existing Art. It consists of 236 paragraphs and 10 annexes. The new regulation will therefore contain more than twice as many requirements as the old one in case of an optimistic scenario. Where's the simplification, please? Where's the transparency? Anyone who wishes to act fairly must ask a separate tax expert. This is where your system is heading instead of being normalized in the 21st century. This whole system would be simplified according to the needs of the century. [[11.00]] We also see that you are visiting a customer-friendly office, trying to influence the willingness to pay taxes in a positive direction. But on the other side of the coin, it's always a question of how the citizen is accounted for by you, what the citizen gets for his money. On the inspection front, you're dew-weak, on a scale of 10 minus 3 that you're producing. After all, if the citizen saw that, of course, I would pay more taxes, but I would get decent health care, a little reduced bureaucracy - not only you, I am talking about how many of your State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys are completely unnecessary - and a little bit of business and predictable relations in Hungary, then, obviously, many would say that it is worth paying my tax with even more efficiency. But you're not doing anything in the other pan of the scale yet. Obviously, my goal is to make the economy white, to make as much tax payments as possible, but it cannot be your own goal to undermine citizens and to spend as much money as possible from relatively higher tax revenues in a totally vague way. So don't expect the contribution of a wide range of society to this, it wouldn't make any sense anyway. We also see that even here the legislation is further complicated by the law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the NAV, the draft of which is not on the Parliament's agenda. But that means, not only do we get very, very far away from the beer mat, but here it will certainly not be too much to go to a tax expert to get to know this jungle. Air. I quote from its general justification, I do not make it up:. The Government discussed and accepted Art at its meeting on 4 April 2016. The aim of the re-regulation, as far as possible, is to create a short, transparent, understandable and easy-to-follow regulatory environment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I believe that what I have said has shown that these criteria have obviously not been met, so the bill should be withdrawn at least for the purpose of recasting if you have some professional decency. I really hope that's true. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2017-11-02-40	Thank you very much. It is now up to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the LMP. Here.
u2017-11-02-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, the new tax procedure laws are necessary because the administrative procedural law applied in the form of a subsidiary is also replaced by a new, and therefore the provisions of a general nature are included in the parallel tax law. A significant part of the special rules of procedure will be included in the Act on the Rules of Taxation that we are discussing here. However, the other main reason for these changes is that every year and every six months in the last eight years, the regent government has introduced amendments to the tax procedure code of the same magnitude, but also to other tax laws with the slogan of simplification, which has made this system incredibly complex and opaque for both taxpayers and professionals, with a lot of subparagraphs and reference. These amendments also had a positive effect when they served to whiten the economy, such as the introduction of the EKAER system and the permanent tax changes of the government had to create procedural conditions. However, due to the unpredictable tax system, the Hungarian government is often criticised both from home and abroad, which is absolutely justified. It cannot be considered acceptable either in legal terms or in other respects individualised legislation, which, unfortunately, has now become a businessmark of the Fidesz administration, when well-defined tax groups or individuals are constantly privileged by the government's development of special preferences, special procedures or the classification of public interest data as tax secrets. It has been clearly demonstrated in recent years that the government is building only an own national capital class, in which only and only the buddies circles and sectors that are close to the government and which are dominated by the government are beneficiaries. To mention just a few of these beneficiaries: Andy Vajna and its casinos, Lőrinc Mészáros and other oligarchs sports companies, multinational companies. This is also called discrimination, which was and will continue to be one of the main principles of the Tax Procedure Act; at least on paper, as we know, the Orbán government has completely reduced constitutional control, the system of brakes and balances. The spirit of this discriminatory treatment is also around the draft law we are discussing, which I am trying to point out next. First, let us look at the range of risky taxpayers and reliable taxpayers. At the beginning of last year, this system was introduced, with the title, that well-behaved taxpayers receive various discounts compared to others. According to the current draft, the tax control should be closed in 180 days, the allocation deadline may be reduced to 30 or 20 days, and they will only have to account for half of the relevant default or tax penalties, with a 12-month payment discount. But why this discrimination, Mr. Secretary? Is there a real deterrent for companies that are already fishing in confusion? Why is the government burdening the tax office with additional administrative burdens linked to the introduction of the legal institution? Why does the tax office give up on examining all taxpayers with adequate and non-discriminatory thoroughness? And why is the tax office thus giving up potential additional revenue? To answer these questions, you need to know who are the primary beneficiaries of these provisions. The answer is not too complicated, although it will obviously be denied: multinational companies, the Fidesz-related business community, and regular winners of public procurement and EU tenders. ,, By the birth of reliable taxpayers, this sentence may be familiar to you, who have been as untouchable and uncontrollable as they will be until you are replaced by an LMP government. It's just a few moments to see who's actually getting the benefits. Even at the time of its introduction, the benefits were mainly enjoyed by multinational companies which had not been over-checked and which could also benefit from positive discrimination in tax procedures. The conditions for a reliable taxpayer rating are already much easier to meet for high tax performance companies than for less capitalised micro and small enterprises. Moreover, even with maximum bona fideness, the latter are much more difficult to emerge from a stigmatized situation, such as high-ranking taxpayers. It is incredibly strict and completely pointless, because it is priceless for smaller taxpayers and it anticipates the bankruptcy of the companies concerned to increase the default penalty to 150 per cent compared to the default rate and to set the default premium at five times the central bank base rate. The tax penalty cap of 200 percent does not work, but increases irrecoverable claims at NAV. Of course, if someone dares to criticize you on this subject, they obviously say that it is anti-business and anti-business, although, as you can see, the main beneficiaries concern the large group of taxpayers you prefer. In our opinion, however, we should not primarily be at home in sanctioning and measuring them, but perhaps we should increase the quality of the audit activity, as my colleague before me has pointed out. Of course, it is difficult to meet this requirement when the number one head of the tax administration is a reliable taxpayer - sorry, I meant to say politician - whose favorite occupation is to collect tapes within the framework of his daily country travel. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] The next issue is the tax ruling. This is one of the most hidden areas of taxation, the regulation of which is the new procedural law 164-173. Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. There is no specific information on these taxpayers anywhere, even though they can benefit from a significant amount of public budget. Typically, there are also multi-beneficiaries. In short, the tax ruling means that the multinational company agrees with the government, to be more precise, with the manager of the NGM, on the tax implications of a future transaction or on its absence, and this agreement is binding on the taxing State for years, sometimes even if the multi has to be taxed on new terms due to a change in legislation. All we know is that 93 requests for tax rulings were submitted to the Ministry of National Economy in 2013 and 86 applications for tax rulings in 2014 and that, in the context of the LuxLeaks scandal, from 2015 onwards, Member States were required to provide annual reports by the European Commission. In Hungary, however, these data are confidential. We were very surprised. The LMP believes that these data should be made public, made public, and therefore, with our amendment, we would supplement the law with a new paragraph requiring the Government to provide regular tax rulings. The following is the third issue: the most scandalous tax provisions and discounts of the Orbán Government are linked to the Tao Support Scheme. The whole structure is surrounded by the spirit of corruption, and it is no coincidence that the government will only be willing to release the data after years of litigation on the basis of a request from a civil society organisation. It is only an indication: this is the form of support in which the public money is inaccessible to, among other things, Lőrinc Mészáros, Secretary of State András Tállai and Miklós Seszták's soccer clubs. [[11.10]] Just a year ago, the government had Parliament adopt the provisions of the Act on the Rules of Taxation, which served to encrypt both the tao money and the tax ruling data. This could be strongly opposed even then, since the provisions on the transparency of the ominous legislation currently under discussion are set out in Article 127. §2 is also included. Therefore, the LMP would remove from the law provisions restricting access to these data of general interest. We are also planning further amendments to remove the unlimited application of your tax confidentiality, so we propose that public information in the public interest or in the public interest should not be considered as a tax secret in any way. Furthermore, we consider it appropriate to remove the tax authority's obligation of confidentiality on a citizen's initiative, based on the decision of the Minister responsible for tax policy, in respect of data of public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the proposals of the LMP amendment, which would serve the guarantee conditions for the transparent functioning of public administration and governance, by eliminating the classification of data of general interest as a tax secret. If the pro-government representatives do not support this, this will be another proof that they have no intention of making the system of taxation more transparent, but will continue and want to work on the establishment of the national capital class. I would now like to move to the Tax Administration Act. Mr State Secretary, I think it is important that I try to describe, in your own terms, what is driving the government's behaviour in the creation of new tax procedure laws, but most of all, in its communication. I would therefore like to quote a short line of thought from the preamble to the explanatory memorandum to the Tax Administration Act. The control structure is simplified, compared to the previous seven types of controls, the bill only identifies two types of controls: compliance checks and tax checks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But it's a big misdirection. The Tax Administration Act 90 and 91. It is clear from its sections that seven types of checks are still possible. Without them, the system would collapse. All that happened was that these control varieties were divided into two groups; so they became two out of seven, in fact. This also highlights your style and operation of governance, administration, communication and manipulation: to show the results where there is no such thing in fact, to continue pretend governance instead of substantive, substantive steps. But let's just keep going on this line. You say that the aim was to create a short, transparent, understandable and easy-to-follow regulatory environment as far as possible. Pain is that it is only what has been accomplished, as far as possible. It has not made life easier for taxpayers or tax professionals, but, above all, for tax officials, and the bureaucratic burden has not been reduced at all. You can sense their desire to clear the rules, to group the interrelated issues, but the great will - for more than a year - is being prepared for these laws - seems to be the end of a moan again. Instead of the previous, single tax code, at least three will be created in the same regulatory environment with the same subjects. The implementation will then be discussed by the Parliament, and further areas that are very important, requiring legal authorisation, will be transferred to a number of other government regulations. A multi-faceted procedure, increased by hundreds of paragraphs, would not be called short, especially difficult to follow. This also includes the fact that we were promised by you in 2010 that the tax system would be significantly simplified. Even everyone remembers the lie about the beer mat, and it's appeared before the House now several times. You have promised fewer types of taxes. Instead, we're standing here at the end of the last eight years with a lot of new taxes you've introduced, a complicated and opaque tax system in our backs. It's one of your painful legacys. But let's keep looking at your sight kitchen. The duration of the tax control should not exceed 365 days, and you are proud to say so. Again, this is true as fewer control types do. With the use of the institution of the over-control, the deadline may be extended by another year, for example if the reply of the foreign tax authority to the request has not been received by the day 365. In the past, such procedural acts may have extended the procedural deadline. Now, no, after a year, we have to close the check, so that the answer or new fact can reboot. Again, it's a pretend relief that can be sold outwards for a period of time to an hour, but by starting over, we have actually put a new burden on the shoulders of administrators and customers, i.e. taxpayers. Of course, the problem is not the length of deadlines alone, but rather the operation of the IRS. It is difficult to define efficiency expectations in a highly concentrated, politically influenced, highly fluctuating system. That's why we don't understand why the law didn't touch it. 95. The deadline extension scheme provided for in Section 2 of this Annex. Where justified, the audit deadline may be extended once by the head of the audit authority for a maximum period of 90 days for a tax inspection. Now, in this case, it is very clear that there is almost no restriction on the justification. Which means the administrator's asking for an extension for whatever reason he wants. In practice, this works as an automatic, every tax inspector counts the extra 90 days. In general, this is not about comfort, but about congestion - operational, capacity problems - and the complexity of cases. However, an order must be made for the extension, the application must be justified, so this is a completely unnecessary additional burden on the office, and therefore the basic time limit for the tax control could be set at 180 days. Then, of course, we should also consider what levels the remaining two extensions should go to; we think each one should be down one. In the 30-day extension of law enforcement investigations, the same battle situation is in practice. This, in turn, would require a complex consideration of the extensions that would require the entire redesign before the adoption of the law. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Otherwise, we'll have the salad laws that everyone hates again. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-42	Thank you very much. I hope you were able to finish it, because just take my bell as if I made a little noise to the historic bell. Do you want to finish this, or have you finished what you have to say? [[Márta Demeter: If I had 15 minutes, I finished when I was 30, no.]] My apologies, stand up, continue and finish, you have 30 minutes. I've been knocking one for 15 minutes because it looked good.
u2017-11-02-43	Then is this an extension, Mr. President?
u2017-11-02-44	Yes, we will be able to discuss the genre of this in an interesting way, but now you have the opportunity to finish it. You have 30 minutes, it doesn't mean you have to fill it out, it means there's a way to do what you didn't say within this time frame. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to mention another legal institution that, although it seems less important than the previous one, may, however, in the circumstances, make the procedure of proof more difficult and lead it in the wrong direction. The Law 14. According to Paragraph 6 of the Act, the tax authority shall call on the taxpayer to make a declaration if, in the course of the proceedings, the statement of the taxpayer and the representative or of the representative differs from one another or if other procedural acts are contrary. Unless otherwise stated by the taxpayer, the tax authority considers the former act to be valid. However, the evidence can be considered freely, so why do we oblige the administrator to ignore the circumstances just because there are two types of taxpayers' behaviour, to take one into account legally? Article 58 of the Tax Code However, if the law does not provide otherwise, the tax authority is free to choose the method of proof and to assess the evidence available in accordance with the evidence available. Article 14 The law is quite contrary to the law, but it is not certain that it is right to do so. In line with the above, the LMP will also try to submit amendments to the draft law under discussion in a limited time frame. The government is famous for its desire to rename institutions and concepts; we know more or less why. [[11.20]] I have already talked about the follow-up tests, and it is also mentioned that instead of the term legal force, the term "finality" will have to be used. The point is, however, never the name, but the content, which does not mean any real changes in the draft we are discussing, as I have tried to present in the past and above. So we expect the government, the pro-government representatives, to support our amendments to be tabled, because the aim here is to make the system work as much as possible in the coming months. Our illusions, I think, are not, after a change of regime in 2018, will require a whole new tax administration and tax rules. Thank you.
u2017-11-02-46	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches; there is no independent representative in the room. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate asked by the committee representing the nationalities, Honourable Parliament, so I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovana Skupštino! Poštovani Predsednice! U vezi predloga zakona T/17995. 0 poreznom procesnom pravu a u kontekstu odredbi koje se odnose na prava narodnosti, uzimam reč. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/17995 on tax administration. I would like to talk about provisions concerning nationality rights. From a national point of view, the provisions on the use of nationality languages should be highlighted among the rules of the tax administration which will enter into force on 1 January 2018. As early as 1999, our country ratified the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, a unique agreement between the states that committed themselves to a future based on linguistic diversity. The decline in ethnic languages can be stopped and even reversed where young generations learn to use the languages that are traditionally spoken in the family and in the region. The use of nationality mother tongue, the practical application of language rights, undoubtedly leads to a slowing down of the process of language loss. One of the basic principles of the Charter is that nationality language should not be restricted solely to the private sector, but public language should also be encouraged. In the spirit of this principle, a number of legislative provisions have already been adopted in our country. The 2011 CLXXIX on the Rights of the Fundamental Law and nationalities. law ensures that nationalities can use their mother tongue in the course of their official affairs. Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law Article 2 of the Act states that nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and to use their own Community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach them in their native language. The law on the rights of nationalities requires the State to ensure the conditions for the use of the language of persons belonging to nationalities in cases specified in a separate law. The use of the mother tongue in civil and criminal proceedings and administrative proceedings shall be ensured by the relevant procedural laws. Among the procedural laws, the new civil order adopted recently by the Parliament and which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, the general administrative order and the Criminal Procedure Law which will enter into force on 1 July 2018 also ensure the use of the mother tongue of nationality in the procedures to be conducted by the authorities, civil and criminal courts. The tax administration system, while maintaining this legislative process in a specific area of law, also ensures that individuals belonging to a national minority manage their tax administration in their mother tongue. The draft is 30. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities, a person acting on behalf of a non-governmental organisation and a natural person who is subject to the law on the rights of nationalities may use his nationality language with the authority. The decision in the Hungarian language concerning the application in the language of nationality shall be translated by the authority into the language used in the application at the request of the taxpayer. The above provision contained in the bill is CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act 5. § 1 is in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 concerning the use of mother tongue. For those belonging to nationalities, the use of the mother tongue is also guaranteed by the legislation in force and by the bill on the agenda, but in everyday administration, those belonging to the national minority have little or no access to the linguistic rights granted to them in the absence of the necessary conditions. Experience has shown that public bodies are less prepared to communicate in the language of nationality and, where appropriate, may need to use an interpreter. The effective application of nationality language rights would be facilitated by the fact that, in tax administration procedures, where the nationality language used by the taxpayer or other party to the proceedings is not spoken by the administrator, an interpreter should also be used. The draft law requires the authority to use the interpreter in the case of a foreign language used by the taxpayer or other party to the proceedings. In practice, there can be a debate as to whether the language of nationality is a foreign language, in which cases the use of an interpreter is compulsory. Further progress could be made if the draft law on tax administration, like the new civil order and the new Criminal Procedure Law, would clearly and explicitly allow the use of an interpreter if this is necessary for the application of national language rights. With this comment, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary supports T/17995. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you for listening. Hvala na pažnji!
u2017-11-02-48	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. We now have two-minute speeches, first of all, Mr István Józsa, MSZP. Here.
u2017-11-02-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that István Hollik, the spokesperson of KDNP, is no longer in the room, because what has been written for him and he has deserved to tell me here is not in a thank-you relationship with reality. He still believes that the governance of the last nearly eight years has made the tax administration and the tax procedure simpler. I would like to tell him that he has become more insecure, that he has changed many times, and, as my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy explained, the general traffic tax-like taxes, in addition to the immeasurably high VAT rate of 27 per cent, in the form of various sectoral taxes, are particularly hard on the Hungarian people, and I have to say that small incomes are even more heavily affected, because for them, let's say, a small transaction tax means a great deal of money if one or two thousand forints of their money is lost. So with regard to the criticism of this proposal, you want to leave the details of the inspection to be laid down by government regulations that can be quickly amended, which also disregards the objective of transparency and simplification set by the government. So you can't move the legal order, the predictability towards the government regulations, because then it just becomes unpredictable, unreliable, creating a situation for investors to feel a shaky soil. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which, in our opinion, is neither in the interests of Hungarians nor in the interests of investors. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-50	Thank you, thank you. Z. Carpathian Congressman Daniel, Jobbik, in two minutes. [[11.30]]
u2017-11-02-51	Mr President, Dear House, We have already explained that the expected more than half a thousand paragraphs may not help simple settlement in tax matters, but one more issue has been raised, and here I would like to ask the Secretary of State for an explanation, because his faction is apparently not involved in the debate. We are talking about reducing the rate of the tax fine of 200 per cent to 100 per cent, which can be imposed after the tax deficit. This would also be an optional option to introduce a conditional discount on the tax penalty, which would be payable to businesses if they essentially gave up their right to appeal. But here it is very difficult to decide whether one eye should cry, the other should laugh, or be clearly happy or sad, because it is absolutely unpredictable what economic effects this can have. Indeed, where appropriate, a reduction in the level of a sanction, which encourages the person concerned to behave in a way that is not strictly a follow-up, in other cases this is the reverse of it. I am interested in Mr Secretary of State's personal opinion on the reasons for the reduction of the penalty of 200 per cent after the tax deficit, and the economic impact he expects from the fact that anyone who may not be on the cleanest path may have to expect a lower penalty in the future, which is incomprehensible to me in this form. Thank you.
u2017-11-02-52	Dear Parliament, We will now return to the speech of the speakers who have been announced, and not back, but in this way we will move forward. First, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, can give his opinion. In the meantime, I would like to inform Mr Mesterházy that he is on the monitor as a speaker requesting a normal word, and that the pre-notifications are first because they have been announced, so the word. I have put this sentence so long so that Congressman Gúr can draw up his previous notes. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When discussing the item on taxation and the issue of tax administration, I would like to draw up the following items, which I consider to be the most important. I don't know where else to start, and I don't want to start from any other place than the issue of the use of Tao resources. I am doing this, Mr President, because with regard to the use of public funds, from Orbán to Gulyás, from Balla to Répássy, everyone was talking about the loss of public money in Tao, in fact, the public has nothing to do with these funds. The way I see it, in recent times, the courts have seen these issues differently and have shown them differently. The final judgment of the Curia after a six-year-long process... was the opposite after six years. Fidesz seems to have failed or failed the lawsuits on the basis of this, so it would have classified the tax discount data as a tax secret which, I say, would not have been regarded as public data in the general interest or as public data in the public interest. I think it's legal nonsense. I believe that this is contrary to the provisions of the Fundamental Law itself. Although the proposal no longer contains the encryption provision, it states that the detailed form of the requested data is considered to be a tax secret. So, my problem with this story is that it's obvious that they're always trying to hide something from people, and that's just not right. It seems that even if decisions are taken in the top forums, such as the Curia, they also want to avoid the decision of the Curia, and, in addition, in relation to the interface on the tax administration, we see that the legislative institutions regulated at the current legislative level, or rather I say that the government representatives of Parliament want to outsource them within the framework of lower-level legislation. This isn't right. This isn't right. I will give you an example, let us say, of the scope of the detailed control arrangements, for which there will be a situation where processes will become opaque. With a summary sentence, because I don't want to give the story too much weight, I can put it all in such a way that they wanted to hide the publicity of previous tao money, how it was used, and to make the system work inaccessible. I do not think this is good, and I also ask Mr Secretary of State not to go in this direction, but to meet the wider needs of the public as well as to strengthen transparency. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-54	Thank you very much. Our next announced speaker is Mr István Józsa, Member of MSZP.
u2017-11-02-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government announced with a great deal of emphasis that it would rearrange the entire tax administration system, while not clarifying elementary issues that could clearly determine what the public money is, what belongs to the public on a mandatory basis, and what is really the tax secret that belongs to the natural intimacy of private business, i.e. market movements. So, instead of the previous seven tax controls, it is now said that there are only two, and the two look like 1/a, b, c and 2/a, b, c, this does not mean a revolutionary simplification, because it does not increase legal certainty. So when the tax system, which is a fundamental issue for the functioning of the economy, is a fundamental issue of legal certainty, so radically overturned, at least these issues that are very sensitive to legal certainty should be put at a standstill in time. So the approach that I referred to in my two-minute comment just now is that the Orbán government will use government regulations to clarify how the tax control will take place, how it gets complicated, I have to say that this is amazing. So when everyone knows that a decision by a tax authority can put a company, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to shame for years, because they will make a decision that the court will say in three years that it was a mistake, and unfortunately, the company's activity will be completely impossible. Especially in a political context that we have just seen as an example of Mr Csaba Czeglédy, that they have closed their accounts in the form of a dubious decision by the tax authority, but at the same time the pro-government press is going after them not to pay off student workers. To add, the exact examination found out that there were 12 people who could not be paid, and it was HUF 880,000 in unpaid wages. But you also made it impossible, with a political decision by the tax authority. So when such cases occur, you want to strengthen the government's mandate to make regulations, rather than legal guarantees, which is strictly anti-economic, highly anti-popular, highly anti-legalistic. So we should do the exact opposite. If you do not want to believe us opposition representatives, you should turn to the major tax consulting companies, for example Ernst & Young, who consider this question so fundamental that they gave their views free of charge. [[11.40]] This is not so usual in such a large expert company that, on a cardinal matter, which requires serious analytical activity, he gives the Government his opinion without paying, but in this regard they considered it so important that they made a voluntary statement, because they see the danger in what your legislative practice carries. I am therefore very pleased that the Secretary of State is here in person. I would ask you to read your presentation again, because when you first read it, it seemed to read it for the first time; and then, in essence, this thing, which means predictability, legal certainty and screening of the hectic nature of government work, we ask that, in the interests of the Hungarian economy, a predictable, reassuring tax administration with guarantee elements be brought here. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-56	Thank you very much. Now we're going to have Members who ask for a normal word. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-11-02-57	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I would have liked to have responded to an earlier speech, and so almost an hour later it may sound a little strange, especially since Congressman Hollik had already left the room, but he did have two comments that I would like to make on the record. One sounded like a good state providing quality services, and the other, so that people should not be adapted to the state, but that the state should adapt its services to the voters, to the people. In general, I would agree with both of his comments, but that he made a sign of equality between these claims and the activities of the Fidesz government, I would strongly dispute that, because it is visible and clear that this government has not made progress in the field of public services, in exchange for tax revenues, Hungarian voters and Hungarian families will not receive quality services in the fields of education and health, so that I can bring the two most burning ones here as an example. And perhaps one more piece of data can be used to justify this: that in the next year's budget welfare expenditure is reduced by GDP, while the state's own resources are increasing by GDP; this shows that this government does not plan to increase public service quality. And his third comment was about how fantastic this one-stop shop is. I'd say there's a one-stop shop, and now there's nothing that can be done properly, so I wouldn't be so proud of that. Where software doesn't work, where there are other problems. So while the one-stop shop sounds very good, the only difference compared to the previous, indeed multi-window system is this: the number; the problem remained the same behind the window. Therefore, the State would certainly still have a job to do in this area. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-58	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, It is my duty to ask if anyone still wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] The question was answered quickly, in a two-minute timeframe, Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not even gonna spend the two minutes. Turning to the Secretary of State, I would just like to ask for clarity in the focus, not the lack of clarity. Let the focus be that people have access to information as much as possible, not how and how it can be denied. Let the focus be on what my fellow Members have said so that, in contrast to the various tax payments, a multitude of counter-services are carried out that are practically for the common good and not for the benefit of some people. That is all I would like to ask, and I would also like to enjoy the confirmation of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Anyone else? [[No one's reporting.]] I note that no one else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak, so the general debate is closed. Secretary of State, do you wish to reflect? [[András Tállai: Yes.]] Mr. Secretary of State Tallai has the floor, here you go.
u2017-11-02-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, I would like to respond to some of the issues that have been raised. The first is definitely István Józsa's speech. Congressman István Józsa did not tell the truth when he said that the tax authority had taken political orders in the Czeglédy case. That's not true, that's a lie. From you there in the MSZP fraction, this is perfectly acceptable and it is customary for you to lie, because your Prime Minister has also admitted that you lied. It must be accepted that if a person draws the tax away, does not pay the public burden to the State, sooner or later the tax authority will catch up with him and make him account - this is what is happening in the Czeglédy case, and nothing else. Now I would like to respond to some of the professional points and questions that have been raised, first of all as regards the length of the proposal, as regards its transparency, as regards legal certainty. I think that, although it is certainly unacceptable for you to see that this bill, these two legislative proposals and the other regulations, will ensure this precisely, since from this point on, it will be removed from the administrative procedure in its entirety from the tax procedure, since we believe that there is no other organisation, for example, in appeals, there is no other organisation, there must be an appeal to the same organisation, and that even the third-degree appeal, the supervisory measure, is being lodged with the same authority, and that is to be submitted to its head. As far as the length of the paragraph is concerned, the paragraph number is deceiving, because the paragraph number is indeed more, but it is easy to see and interpret, there are short paragraphs, unlike the previous Art., they are understandable, and if we look at the extent, it is true that more, but more, because - which has been said several times today - the tax procedure will then go a completely separate way, there is no need to look at another law, and we do not always have to look at the law on the order of public administration, that, oh, what is in it, because these two laws alone will regulate the procedure. That's why it seems longer, but it's not longer, and that's why you're saying it's more opaque, even though that's not true. It is precisely that we are now creating with these two laws that the tax procedure will become completely transparent. The appeal, the appeal procedure, and it is indeed right for the taxpayer to present all the evidence in the first instance procedure to the tax authority. In several cases, the taxpayer has played a role in revealing to the tax authority, in the course of subsequent legal proceedings, real evidence which was intended to withdraw the proceedings, in the event that the tax authority then returned the proceedings to the tax authority at first instance in the course of the judicial or other administrative decision, and from that point on, because of the limitation period, it could not determine the tax deficit, where appropriate. This is indeed for the benefit of the State, for the benefit of the State budget; yes, and it means that the taxpayer cannot withdraw the evidence, but must make it available in the first instance tax administration procedure. The third is the supervisory measure that only one can be lodged from now on and within one year of the final order. Think of where it is, what other procedures can be used to ask the tax authorities to take supervisory measures on a daily basis until the tax payment is over. There's no such thing anywhere. [[11.50]] Indeed, it draws the taxpayer's attention in the future to the fact that it can only do so once, to the head of the tax administration or to the minister of the national economy, if he sees an infringement and must have a time limit. After all, taxpayers immediately submitted a new one after considering a supervisory measure, and for years, in essence, they did so, even though they could not reveal any new facts or new evidence during the procedure, it simply became a hobby to ask for supervision measures. There was also a criticism of conditional tax rulings. This is an OECD practice, an international practice, a well-functioning practice in Hungary. This tax ruling cannot impose any additional tax, it essentially only interprets the legislation, which helps a taxpayer to deal with a particular case. This institution is accepted in Hungary, and, moreover, it is recognised, and we consider it to be applicable in the future. Why is the rate of the tax fine halved if you waive your right to appeal in the first instance procedure? According to the bill, the tax penalty remains at 200 percent. This is one of the important things, and it will decrease to 100 percent if you agree to pay it in the first instance procedure. I was at a conference where several tax experts said that the tax penalty of 200 percent, in addition to which there is still the tax established and the 200 percent of it, this is an empty set, the empty set means that this can be established, but if we look at the cases in which the tax authority has received the tax deficit itself and the 200 percent of it, then we see that it is a fraction. This can be measured at 1-2 percent. This is a symbolic fine, which does not constitute a tax revenue to the State, so it is much better and more reasonable to persuade the taxpayer to recognise it with a lower penalty rate after a mistake has been committed, reimbursed to the State budget as a sanction, but, on the one hand, there is no second-degree procedure, there is no continuation of the case, and on the other hand, the budget increases. The LMP gave us more reviews. That rating procedures are on a political basis - well, that's absurd. The law applies to everyone. When rated by the tax authority on a quarterly basis, it does not do so on the basis of political signals, but does so on the basis of legal requirements. That it's a pretense rule, and it's an appearance that the time limits for control are falling, and I specifically disagree with that. I think the point is that they will decrease, and that is what taxpayers will experience. It is also important what is now being said in Parliament, but the most important thing is what taxpayers will experience from this bill, from the fact that it will be completed in 365 days, and the tax administration will be able to keep the shortened procedural deadlines, so that taxpayers will be able to have a certain kind of security and predictability provided by the tax authority through the new laws. I'm telling the congresswoman, Márta Demeter, that I'm a tape collector. I'd like to say that I've been an individual MP for the fifth term for 20 years. I don't know if you've won an individual district. Not yet. [[György Szilágyi: What's that got to do with it? Márta Demeter: There is an equal mandate!]] Then you don't know what it's like to represent 100,000 people or be among 100,000 people in 54 settlements. I'll do this job. Behind the tapes I cut through, there is always a development and an investment, and there is always the joy of a settlement, and the joy of people. If you'll allow me, if I have time, on Saturday or Friday afternoon, when I go home, I will continue to do this, but I will also do this job. I don't take that as a criticism. That's a picnic note. Think about it. You're actually criticizing me. You're criticizing the people I'm going to meet and sitting together at a road, a kindergarten development or a school transfer. In return, many, many political opinions had nothing to do with the bill. If you'll excuse me, I wouldn't respond. However, what concerns the bill, I would like to say five things that I do not think can be debated, but on the one hand, there has already been a change in the introduction and, on the other hand, it is in the process, and this bill will ensure this. For example, the e-sya system, it received criticism from the opposition, they came with the beer mat. There's no more beer salad. Believe it or not, honourable opposition representatives, the e-sya system meant that 1 million 400 thousand people did nothing in Hungary. He didn't need a beer mat, he didn't have to take a pen out, he just sat at home, and on the night of May 22, he had a tax return from zero o'clock. This makes cutting red tape better, easier, or more real; 1 million 400 thousand people did nothing. Is that what you're criticizing? - I think you're a little behind on this. The e-sya system will be further developed. That's gonna mean we're gonna take over... no employer tax returns. From the employer - this means more than 30 thousand employers and 660,000 taxpayers - will be taken over by the tax authority and will be carried out by the next year. In 2018, tax returns from 2017 will also be carried out by the tax authority. It will be the same with ancient producers and individuals who have triggered a tax number because they have not yet been included in this system this year. So we improve the e-sya system and expand it to more and more people. The other is the customer-friendly tax authority. Let me give you an example, although this has also been criticised for the fact that the tax administration's appearance in government windows has already taken place. There is a programme for this, whereby the tax authority will appear in the government windows in all district offices. What if it's not a customer-friendly tax authority? We're getting closer, we're getting closer to people. By the way, if you do not, ask your acquaintances and constituents whether the tone between the tax authority and the taxpayer has changed. They'll hear from their acquaintances, their tax acquaintances that, yes, they've changed. The voice has become more human on the part of the IRS. Yes, the tax authorities can produce results in this area, too. And here comes the introduction of a supportive procedure. The IRS didn't know that before. The IRS didn't go that way with the taxpayer. The taxpayer always had to be accountable, always sanctioned, disciplined. The supporting procedure, which has already been introduced by law, is not about that. It is about precisely what is, by the way, a fully accepted way of administration in Europe, that the taxpayer is also seen as a human being by the tax authority, and if he has made a mistake, it gives him the opportunity to correct it. This procedure has started this year, it has an incredible success. There are times when the tax authority calls the taxpayer on the telephone within the framework of the support procedure and draws its attention to the contradiction in its declaration here and here, and we ask you to settle this. Billions have already been paid voluntarily by taxpayers for their own mistakes. There was no sanction, it simply cooperates with the tax authority and the taxpayer, and it has such results. The next, the fourth I would like to bring up is electronic administration. The bill allows that from 2018 all the cases handled by the tax authority do not have to go to the tax authority in person, but can deal with any tax matters at home via the Internet. Obviously, this must also be prepared for the tax authority, but this bill will allow and will allow the tax authority to do so. [[12.00]] The fifth, which has been said positively by the opposition, is a certain mentoring activity, which means that for start-up companies, for six months, the tax authority will give you all kinds of advice personally if you so request, or by telephone - this must also form a system with the tax authority - and will help you to carry out your taxation in respect of your business in a fair manner, with the knowledge of the law and with the establishment of your relationship with the tax authority. I think this is also a major step forward. Dear fellow Members, I could list a series of changes, which is good, but if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna finish it here. I trust that the opposition representatives have been able to address their professional concerns and convince Parliament that this bill is eligible, and that this will bring forward the system of taxation and strengthen the economy. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain tax laws affecting sports businesses until closure. The submission submitted by Member István Tiba, Fidesz, T/18007. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I therefore give the floor first to Mr István Tiba, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-63	Thank you. Dear Lords of the President, Ladies and gentlemen, Sport and sport and regular sport activities are of particular importance in the preservation of health. At the same time, sport and sports are organised not only by the various public bodies but also by sports companies, but also by the fact that they are also subject to various material tax laws. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In view of the tasks of sports undertakings in relation to sport activities, it is appropriate to grant them benefits for each type of tax, in order to assist them in their operation. Therefore, the draft legislation amending certain laws on taxation affecting sport enterprises includes provisions on local taxes, corporate and dividend taxes, simplified public liability contributions and special tax and annuities to improve the balance of public finances. The proposal sets out a trade tax relief for sport enterprises. Thus, the Local Tax Act, Act C of 1990, is amended as follows: Paragraph 22 (i) would be added. The essence of this is that the revenue acquired by the sport business in the context of sport activities, such as revenue from the sale of tickets, rents for sports events, the provision of advertising services, the temporary or permanent transfer of the right to use toy rights, the provision of services under the Sports Act sponsorship contract, the transmission of a sports event by television, radio and other electronic, digital means, the exploitation of a sports facility under the Sports Act, does not constitute a business tax base. To interpret this tax relief, it is necessary to define the concept of sport business. According to this, the sport business is a sport undertaking within the meaning of the Sports Act, the main activity of which is sport activity. A further condition is that the sports company must compete with its players, i.e. it must enter into a competition system organised in sport - in a tournament - which has the right to use the right to play in sports. The proposal also provides for the tax advantage of sports enterprises that the local tax law is subject to Article 52. The tax reduction on net turnover, i.e. the tax effect of reducing otherwise taxable net turnover, referred to in paragraph 22 (i), is State aid which, at the choice of the taxable person, may be used as operating aid for the operation of sports facilities in accordance with the rules of the de minimis regulation or the block exemption regulation. The Local Tax Act 53. § 2 of the Act would be replaced by the following: 39/F. In accordance with the rules of Commission Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013 of 18 December 2013 on the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to de minimis aid. That's 52. The reduction in the tax due to the reduction of net income pursuant to Article 22 (i) of the Treaty constitutes operating aid within the meaning of the de minimis aid regulation or, for the purposes of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty, of Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market and of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 amending Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 as regards aid for port and airport infrastructure, aid for culture and cultural heritage conservation and aid for sport facilities and multifunctional leisure facilities, regional operating aid schemes in the outermost regions, and operating aid for sport facilities under Commission Regulation (EU) No 2017/1084/EU of 14 June 2017 amending Regulation (EU) No 702/2014 as regards the amount of eligible costs. LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. Law 24/A the following paragraphs 13a and 13b are added. If the tax and customs authorities have refused to transfer the transfer only because the taxpayer has not paid the amount specified in the tax advance or in the tax return on the corporate tax advance, within 15 days of receipt of the decision to refuse the transfer, the State tax and customs authorities shall make the transfer even if the delay does not exceed 15 calendar days from the due date and the tax advance and the amount of the tax has been fully paid. In the case of failure to submit an application pursuant to paragraph 13a, no application for a certificate shall be made. CXX of 2005 on a simplified public burden-sharing contribution. Law 4, the Echo Act. the following paragraph 6 would be added. By way of derogation from paragraph 3, the paying agent shall not pay the professional athlete an ephoon for the income received as a consideration for his occupation. And here's a subtitle of the final provisions of the Echo Act, 14/F. Paragraph 4 is added: this Act is laid down by the Act amending certain laws relating to the taxation of sports undertakings. Paragraph 6 may also apply to income paid after 1 September 2017. The 2006 LIX on special tax and annuities to improve the balance of public finances. Law 4/A In paragraph 16 (d), the text of the non-executive foundation shall be replaced by the text of the non-executive foundation established for the development of visual team sport, 15. In its section, the self-checking text is replaced by the self-checking text until 10 December, free of charge until 10 September. I would ask my fellow Members to support the following legislative proposals. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[12.10]]
u2017-11-02-64	I would like to thank Mr István Tiba, rapporteur, notary, for the item on the agenda. I'll ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make a brief resolution on behalf of the Government. T/18007. István Tiba's own motion to amend certain laws concerning sports enterprises, tabled by Member István Tiba, is supported by the Government. Thank you.
u2017-11-02-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-02-67	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to start by saying that either this proposal that has been tabled has not been sufficiently thought out, or it is in some very special interest to present it, because it is crawling with unclear regulations or options - even reading the presentation or listening to the oral amendment - which gives a lot of loopholes. I understand that sport has a major role to play in maintaining health - and that is true - and I think that it is perhaps less justified that, as the presentation, sport and sport, regular sport activities are of particular importance in the preservation of health, so that millions of payments should be exempt, because that is what roughly part of this proposal is about. Perhaps such a relationship does not have to be between the role of sports in the preservation of health and salaries. So on the one hand, I see that this opens up a lot of loopholes, as you said in your presentation, that athletes need to be competitive, but it can be built on a lot of other things: economic activity, wellness services, or anything else that actually keeps the regulatory obligation or criteria that you've been talking about as a kind of paragon, and then makes a profitable business that can benefit. So I think that it makes a lot of distinctions, it differentiates between different companies, because there are other companies that have a distinct social value not only from an economic point of view, but also from other aspects. A number of such businesses could be mentioned in the field of culture, but it is quite certain to include education, health or elderly services. It is therefore difficult to understand that only and exclusively in the field of sport is the government reaching out to this possibility, since, let's say, in terms of ticket revenue, it can be said that people buy tickets for a concert in the same way as they buy tickets for a sports match, so why should it be different contributions or tax bases. That's why I'm saying maybe we should think about this a little bit more. You understand the target system. I am not a lawyer, so I am sure that the author and the government can define more precisely how constitutional it is to distinguish between different companies. Perhaps it is not fortunate that even bigger scissors will be opened between professional and amateur sports, because there are so-called enterprises in the form of associations, similarly to those involved in the preservation of health, in the sense that they undertake to help, where appropriate, in the form of recreational sports. The other option is that if this is well thought out, it is quite clear that this is all about football, because it can be seen that Hungarian golden legs receive extremely high costs and salaries. As far as I know, the congressman also represents a football club in a social function - or represented at least earlier - so I think that it is probably more likely here that the tens of millions of monthly salaries will be as easy as possible for football players, because this way, according to the quick head count, we can earn up to HUF 21 million legally by using ECH. This corresponds to almost 70,000 euros a month. And indeed, this may be the best opportunity for Hungarian football players to get such an opportunity after Turkey. So I would think that it might be worth having a serious discussion about this, what other sectors could be, I hope, constitutionally, in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution, qualify for such a benefit, because not only sport or football has - and especially not - such a national value, which is necessary to obtain such a discount, but many other sectors can mention such an opportunity or such performance. Therefore, we, in this form, will certainly not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-02-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When it comes to sport, it is always said, and it has already been referred to by the author, and we will be able to hear several more times that we are dealing with health protection, we are promoting better sports results, supporting young people to play sports and sports. These are all in relation to sport, but this is not what this bill is about: we are discussing the amendment of certain tax laws affecting sports businesses at the moment. The rules of taxation, the transparency and clarity of the tax system are directly linked to the collection of taxes and the willingness of taxpayers to tax. In view of all of this, I believe that as a responsible state leader or Member of Parliament, we should pay particular attention to this area. Our current tax system is diverse and complex, since our tax system has many other aspects, resulting in special taxes and benefits in the regulation. In connection with this system, some say that it is complicated, untraceable due to frequent changes and that it is not fully respected. There was also quite a serious debate in the previous debate on the tax system. I do not fully share the latter extreme position, by the way. I think it is a bit excessive, but we can all say that in the current tax system the size of compulsory tax returns is many times greater than the size of a beer mat, since Secretary András Tállai has just given his opinion on beer mat. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, who is also the head of the NAV, and to be related to sport, works a lot for the sports club in Földöksd, I understand. So it is very hard-working, I might say in the words of my former fellow Member, that it is working as a superman in Hungary at the moment. The bill before us seeks to introduce new rules and new exceptions in our tax system, which is not simple. The planned benefits of the tax relief are sports enterprises, whose definition of tax law is also sought by the bill. If we are talking about taxes and beneficiaries, we must also necessarily talk about those who are injured, because the tax liability on the side of taxpayers is a burden, but on the side of taxpayers it is an advantage. The bill aims to significantly reduce the local tax liability, which means that the municipality that is responsible for the sport business does not have access to the local tax revenue due to it on the basis of the results of the sport business. Ladies and gentlemen, Most of our local governments are forced to farm from very few sources, so any tax forint that doesn't flow in to them for any reason, is a particularly painful point for them. Sports enterprises are undertakings which are basically active in competition sport, which are essentially intended to generate profits and to achieve profits. [[12.20]] These undertakings are the same as any other profit-oriented undertaking, regardless of whether their activities are related to sport, in particular competition. The importance of sport for Jobbik Hungary Movement and I am aware of it. We believe that sport must be promoted, and we will also support sport when it comes to government, just not in a system like you do at the moment. Sport support is an important issue, but sports subsidies should be checked very seriously, that the tax forints that we want to use for sport really get to sport, and we should very seriously define the goals that we are spending all our tax dollars, public money, even if you are trying to deny a lot of times that this would be public money, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán denied that this would be public money, as we say when building the stadium in Felcsút. Since then, it has been found in several places that he wasn't telling the truth. Despite the fact that we want to support sport, this point of the bill before us is unacceptable, as it strengthens the bad trend that has been well observed in Hungarian sports in recent years. Amateur sports, leisure sports, have virtually little visible resources from the central budget, compared to the funds the central government seeks to support competitive sports and the various players involved. The controversial phenomena in Hungarian sports life would only be strengthened by the adoption of the proposal, professional sport and those hoping for a business will continue to grow, whereas amateur sport, whose social and health effects go far beyond professional sport, will continue to be at a competitive disadvantage, and even its disadvantage will increase. More than recreational sports and amateur sports, the pursuit of health conservation that you talk about so many times is the prevention, the preventive nature that we have to deal with, and which would be a great help to health, but you are less supportive of amateur sports and recreational sports, much less supportive of professional sport. Therefore, from the point of view of the local tax, the support for the proposal cannot be accepted from a professional point of view, in particular with regard to the fact that the rate of the local tax for each undertaking is far from the other tax burden. Ensuring local tax relief is a measurable and demonstrable loss of resources for the municipalities concerned. Further parts of the proposal that eased taxation were written in the same spirit as the idea of a local tax reduction. Similarly to the previous ones, these parts are not acceptable to us for the above reasons. The state support and benefits of professional sport, as is now the case in Hungary, raise the expectations of everyone for the right results. Unfortunately, our achievements, which are incontrovertible in themselves, are far below the amount of resources that the government directs to various sports sectors in terms of material, advantages and human resources. Basically, there's a problem with the model. After seven years of government and spending money, a balance sheet should be drawn up and faced with reality. Supporting and financing sport in its current form will not bring the desired and legitimate results. Think about it, because football would be given a special discount right now, so let's look at the results of last year's football. Of course, it is possible to come here with our lucky and otherwise highly hopeful European championship performance, but let us look at how far our sports clubs have reached in the international cups, if we look at the results we achieved in the World Championships after the European Championship, if we look at where Hungarian football is today in the European comparison or in the Eastern European comparison, then I think that we can't really be proud. The question arises as to why this reckoning does not happen, what causes the government to fail to face its own mistakes following ostrich policy. I wonder who this situation is working for. Although the questions seem to be poetic, many of us know the answer to the last one in particular, and more people suspect the answer, since you are not primarily concerned with sports and sports results, protecting health, helping young people to gain sport, using sport as a simple money launderer for the current government, and making it a political paying place. Intruding politics into the most diverse sports and organizations is no longer simply harmful, but also destructive. If in society the sportsman or the sportsman indicator is connected to the dog and corrupt signs at a level such as those signs are now connected with the fidesz sign, then the reaction will be to turn away from sport and to reject sport in society. This consequence cannot be desirable for anyone, as we must say that in the last seven years the sports policy that you have carried out is the sport support system that you have carried out, the maladministration of those, the fact that people see you spend taxpayers' forints on various luxury investments and leave these luxurious investments unexploited, they make provisions to build 20 000 stadiums and build stadiums in a small village, but they do not pay any attention to it, but rather prevent the viewers and fans from filling these stadiums and insisting on it because their party director believes that these stadiums, these sports facilities, have been built in an unthinkable way for operation, have not considered that during an investment they will carry out the operation in a given case... You can laugh at that, Mr. Secretary of State Tállai, just, you know, the problem is that you're a successful World Swimming Championship... [[András Tállai intervenes.]] Press the button, I would be very happy to argue with you, and I would also like to ask either the nationalist or you to press a button, and not only in the final word, when you can no longer answer, to answer these questions, but to start arguing, and then explain to me, in a successful World Swimming Championship, where you have built an otherwise beautiful arena, why you have not taken into account who will be the operator. To this day, the question of operation is not solved! Everyone who has been involved in sports investments knows that a sport investment should be calculated by accounting for 30 per cent of an investment and 70 per cent of an investment. You only didn't care about 70 percent! People were tricked into these sports investments, even those who supported them, who were constantly overinvoicing, even to this day various accounts and the like still appear, I do not think the Hungarian taxpayers would like this. I do not think that the good thing about Hungary today is that they want to build overpriced sports facilities and constantly build such sports facilities, in a situation where both health care and education are in the position they are in. I do not think it is appropriate for Hungarian taxpayers to spend their forints on these luxury investments when, let's say, you have not been able to solve the problem of foreign exchange credentials and are constantly evicting families in Hungary today. Secretary of State, these are serious problems that should be addressed. Once again, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support and support sport on the government, only in a more rational way, and we will not look at sport as a money-paying place, we do not want to confirm that politicians will be at the head of various sports associations and sports associations in order to bring money to it, but we intend to stop it, because we believe that it is incompatible that a politician should act as a sports leader, because it also gives us the opportunity to do corruption and we will eliminate corruption in Hungary, we will also have the sinners accounted for, by the way, those who have attributed taxpayers' money in relation to sport. We'll see what cases will come out then. Once again, I ask you to press the button and answer the questions that have been asked, defend your position, so that we can argue, because in my opinion it is not a debate that we will give our opinion, and you will, in the closing, when we no longer have the opportunity to answer, stand up and tell us how well you are doing this. By the way, I will probably be able to comment on the debate if you will be partners. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-02-70	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. The next speaker is Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, lead speaker of the LMP Group. [[12.30]]
u2017-11-02-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, István Tiba's motion by a Fidesz MEP, besides being astounding, impertinent and unfair, reflects the priorities of the Fidesz government in many ways. Wage increase for the football players - this Orbán plan is now showing up. The bill would give tax reductions to so-called professional football players and football clubs, as if it were the most burning task in Hungary today. He believes that if the government has already spent more than HUF 1000 billion on Viktor Orbán's hobby with stadium construction, sports lake and other subsidies, then there will be a few billion more. Where the leader is irresponsiblely throwing money, the subordinate is also trying to follow the pattern. On the other hand, it's typical of how Fidesz works. Individual lobbies are tearing the state apart and captivating the state, with real-life non-performance grant hunters carrying our tax dollars home. They're wasting our resources, and apparently the problem in Balmazújváros is not that poor football players are under the tax burden. Thirdly, Fidesz would not only take out corrupt elements and representatives, but also feed them. Besides Flórian Farkas and Roland Mengyi, the author of the bill, István Tiba, was also involved in the corruption case where the Fidesz mayor of Balmazújváros was sentenced to two years in prison a few weeks ago. István Tiba was only heard as a witness in the case because he has been defending his immunity since his entry into Parliament in 2014. It was proved that Margit Veres, a notary at the time, took a bribe of HUF 5 million from an entrepreneur who had received a HUF 180 million grant from the city following István Tiba's presentation. And this money was handed over to István Tiba personally, only with the permission of István Tiba, who said that he did not use the money for his own purposes, but helped Balmazújváros Sport Kft., who was in temporary financial disorder. What a black man earns 5 million forints in the local government's c.F. and why the mayor delivers it in a bag didn't get an answer to that. Obviously because they couldn't because it wasn't supposed to be there. They could have at least put it in a nocical box. It is also worth pointing out the further background of the proposal in order to get an image of the Hungarian Fidesz reality today. Before the summer, the two-tau money-filled sports club fought to get out of the second class, the Kisvárda in the interest of Miklós Seszták, and the Balmazújváros represented by István Tiba. Finally, the latter came out victorious. Orbán was able to join Viktor Orbán in the first class with Szútja and András Tállai's Mezőkövesd. Class I is subject to additional costs, so our fellow Member has tabled a proposal to compensate for the extra expenditure somehow. Therefore, in its proposal, no business tax is payable on the proceeds from the sale of tickets, rents, advertising activities and sponsorship contracts. In Hungarian: a public pays for its entertainment from tax forints. However, these revenues also meant an increasing amount of money each year in Balmazújváros. In 2014, the club's own income was HUF 70 million, which had already jumped to HUF 210 million in 2016. The advertisements of the Fidesz oligarchs stuffed with state advertisements and state aids will raise this number even further this year. What is also included in this proposal is the possibility of supporting sports businesses with Tao money, i.e. tax reductions, without paying the company's tax liability due. According to István Tiba's proposal, the governing parties will accept that the obligation to pay taxes is not so important, first, that the Tao money arrives at the sports clubs. This irresponsibleness in the management of public funds is quite disappointing. And the third element of the proposal, which is amazing, is that it even comes up at the thought level: give the soccer players a wage increase, and the poor are so shaky under the burden. Well, that's really shocking. We don't care what happens to small pensioners and small money players, but we're gonna give it to the poor football players. Specifically, the proposal would remove the obligation to pay echo after the wages of professional athletes. Echo itself is also a preferential form of taxation, which triggers social contribution tax, vocational training contribution, personal income tax, pension contributions, health insurance contributions and labour market contributions for income that can be taxed under echo and is chosen by the person acquiring the income. So you're giving an already privileged layer additional privileges, exemption from public burdens. This is simply unacceptable! Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that you hold a national consultation on this. For example, ask such a question: some believe that, in recognition of their performance, a significant tax reduction should be granted to professional football players, while others believe that irresponsible and criminal waste of public money is being made - what do you think? We would be very curious about the outcome, but obviously there will be no national consultation on such a matter. In conclusion, the proposal is completely unacceptable to us both in its content and in its circumstances. The LMP will in no way support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-11-02-72	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members of the European Parliament; first of all, among the speakers announced, Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2017-11-02-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My first sentence can't be about anything but the fact that supporting sports is important. Not only because of the preservation of health and other things, but also, obviously, because through sport there can be a great deal of glory in this country. So support for sport is important. But the promotion of sport and what is now reflected in this draft law is not equivalent, and it is very difficult to match, or it can be said to be compatible. Don't you have to pay a business tax to sports companies for different revenues, say, after the tickets, or even after the rentals, or in sponsorship contracts? And I could tell you more about the line. I don't think that's right. It's absolutely wrong, but it's not right that you don't have to pay the costs of hiring professional athletes, 20% of the income paid as consideration, the amount of echo. Nonsense! But what is this story about? Plus, before I get started on what it's all about, back on September 1st. That's what's in the bill. I don't know how good retrospection is, although if it's in the best interest of the people, I can accept that. But not if it is in the interests of the individual, it is in the interests of the privileged, as has already been said here in Parliament's walls, for the benefit of the golden leg; and I put the golden leg among thick quotes. It is also controversial, since we have talked about the Tao here on the previous item on the agenda, I would like to mention that the Taos money can be transferred even if the bidder does not pay his corporate tax in time. That's nonsense, too! But I really want to focus on one issue. What is this issue? In fact, who the winners are and how many losers there are, not this bill, but that they are not being extended to all the things they are about to enforce in this bill. Well, your winners, I wouldn't put them as athletes, but as football players, the golden legs - quote again, twenty times. His losers and the people who worked for him. It used to look like it wasn't very cornered by the fact that they could use the echo to the income of 125 million forints/year. Now it's 250 million forints per year. [[12.40]] My fellow Member, our lead speaker, Mesterházy, has already said that this actually means the amount of resources legally available for a monthly salary of HUF 21 million. 21 million forints a month. Do you know how much the average wage is in Hungary today? Gross roughly 300 forints and roughly 200,000 forints in net terms. 21 million forints a month, do you know how many times that amount is? If it hasn't been calculated, I'm telling you now very simply, over a hundred times. Is that okay? Is that normal? I don't think so. Absolutely not, because there are such differences between the individual's and the privileged's assets and the Hungarian average, which I believe is unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that, if we consider all countries in the world, Hungary is today the second in terms of the lowest tax rate for athletes or coaches in the country. We can be proud of this, especially by not speaking against sports and against athletes, especially by wanting to create this kind of 20 percent echo-freeness in relation to football players, combined with the tens of millions of HUF available benefits. But just to be clear and clear, I'm going to draw a point of view on this issue. Hungary 2017. What does the tax exemption for multimillion-dollar soccer salaries look like, and what does it look like, say, the tax burden on minimum wage minimum wage workers? Yeah, because they have a tax burden. They have a tax burden. Unlike football players with a monthly salary of millions of forints. Well, they're minimum wagers. In the case of minimum wage earners, this seems to be the case - and I'm going to make two more comparisons here, just in case it reaches you once - that in 2010, when the minimum wage was HUF 60 200, employers and employees combined, after which, after the minimum wage of HUF 60 200 per month, was charged with a tax charge of HUF 32,000. Now that the net of the minimum wage is 84 thousand forints this year, we face the fact that this tax burden is 73 thousand forints. In addition to the net wage of 84,000 HUF, 73 thousand HUF is what employers and employees together pay as a burden. Almost the same. While, and then, you can ask yourself, what does this look like to achieve the HUF 21 million earnings, paired with the echo? Is that normal? But the same example could be given for the guaranteed minimum wage, where people make HUF 107 thousand net, while the tax and tax burden on it is HUF 92 thousand per month. It's almost the same measure. And then what does the question of pairing with an echo that can be matched to an action involving HUF 21 million look like for tens of millions of HUF? Congressman! I just want to ask you if this thing is normal. Is it normal for the privileged persons attached to the Prime Minister's hobby to receive up to tens of millions of HUF without tax benefits, to be judged and dedicated, while there are millions of people in Hungary who, on the basis of their tax returns to the National Tax and Customs Office, display a reflection that more than half of the people working do not earn the minimum amount of living on an annual basis? Of course, even these amounts, as I mentioned, are accompanied by a tax burden on the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage. Is this thing normal? I think that we should think about these, and this bill should be withdrawn in a hurry. Now, I have no doubt that my fellow Member will not do this, but I would like at least the members of society to see and feel these differences and contradictions. At the end, I'd like to ask you two or three more questions. In fact, it would be good to know what is at the heart of these ideas within the framework of this law, what is the special interest, which brings them to life, or who are those for whom they are called to life. And the other thing is, if I can add anything to this story, it would be better to think about how and how a more balanced relationship between a professional and an amateur interface could be established. Because if it's a sport, it's not just the top, it's not just professionalism. Of course, in the case of professionalism, I wouldn't be able to brag about football. There are other sports where yes, but there are clearly significantly lower incomes for top athletes and those who offer performances that this country can actually be proud of. So my final statement, Mr Tiba, is to withdraw this proposal publicly between the walls of Parliament, and then perhaps you will not be ashamed of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-74	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Mr Imre Horváth, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-11-02-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Here Mr Szilágyi, Member, spoke of results, failures, Andorra, and so on. I, preparing for today, looked around a little bit about the supply of supplies, and found something that the Budapest Honvéd's Eb supply team lost to Krasnodar at 8:0. [[András Tállai: Are you happy about this? Attila Mesterházy: Find out! Nándor Gúr: Situation description! That's the fact! The president's ringing the bell.]] I checked, Mr. Secretary, the U21 team's 26-person budget. There's only one person from the Tao Supported Gun Academy, but I don't know if he was raised at the Gun Academy, so I haven't looked into it yet. So that's how we stand, and my heart hurts when we talk about supplies, and that's the result of all the stuffed tao money. Moving on to the bill. This is yet another gem of your government, a highly distorted, unjust, irrational and smiling image of our world. I'll get right to the point. According to this bill, as of 1 January 2018, sports companies will not be required to pay business tax on their revenue from ticket, rent, advertising and sponsorship contracts. Furthermore, professional athletes do not have to pay 20 per cent of the income received as a consideration for this occupation, the simplified public liability contribution, and the tax relief would be effective retroactively from 1 September. Due to the legislation of Fidesz, the clear biggest winners of the Hungarian tax system, which otherwise taxed workers, have undoubtedly become athletes. I'm not against sports or sports. This summer, the Legislative Committee smuggled an amendment to the bill on individual tax laws - this is the T/15428, which makes it possible for athletes to use the echo up to HUF 250 million a year instead of the 120 million so far, which is a major tax relief. Of course, I am not discussing the amount of money that can be earned by a particular athlete, but the state's favoritism, which embodies a highly discriminatory approach by the state and, above all, by the majority of governments, who have a dog's duty to establish a fair, sustainable tax system. [[12.50]] But this isn't a time of equals, this is a time of equals. In practice, this proposal makes almost all income for athletes and coaches tax-free. I ask: Is Hungary going to be a strong and proud European country where multimillion-dollar soccer payments will be exempt, while the tax burden on employees at minimum wage is the highest among developed countries? To sum up, if the law is passed, no local business tax or echo will be paid to sports companies in the future. In addition, they could recover the charges paid from August this year. It's not clear what the motivation behind the move is. The general justification of the proposal suggests that sport and sport and regular sport activities are of particular importance in the preservation of health. That, I think, is a rather lame argument for professional athletes. In view of the tasks and operation of sports businesses, the exemption from local business tax means that sports undertakings do not even have to pay this maximum burden of 2% of turnover. In other words, the level of saving depends on the turnover and on whether the maximum rate is applied in the municipality. For example, among the professional football clubs, Ferencváros can save HUF 87.5 million with nearly HUF 4.4 billion in revenue. And the Echo proposal means that in the future, athletes will not even have to pay for the 20 percent public space. This would, of course, not only apply to football players, but they have the highest wages, so they would be the most affected. No one likes to talk about the NB I payments, but it is heard in sports that top players can earn up to 20,000 euros a month, i.e. more than 6 million forints. In this way, the 20 percent relief can also be a million-dollar item, which remains at the clubs. Well, that's the way it is. My fellow Members have suggested that the rapporteur withdraw this bill. I could also suggest, Mr Secretary of State, that the issue of farming should be dealt with in the first place. The state who gives the money should set realistic goals for sport and should be called upon with an iron hand. What? It's either through the trade union or through the secretary of state. The state, as long as he gives the money, must control professional sport as a owner does with his business. Performance needs to be assessed, a sport and development programme building realistic foundations and non-air castles should be developed. That's what we should be dealing with. Neither I nor the Socialist Party are in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-76	Thank you, Congressman Horváth. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-11-02-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Both our lead speaker and my fellow factions, we can say that they have discussed this bill quite thoroughly, quite deeply, in terms of its professional side. Of course, I would also like to say a few words about it, but I would like once again to mention in my comment the unseemly and unjust procedure on which the Fidesz once again used this bill. What's happening? To a Member, this is now Congressman István Tiba, let us say that the bill is written on it, and it is said that the petitioner of this bill in the form of an individual motion by a Member of Parliament, and it is not the government who is submitting this bill, although I suspect that this bill has been drawn up somewhere in one of the very deep dark bugs of the government. You may be able to talk more about this, but this is not what happens when the government introduces this bill, but again according to the well-established, well-established Fidesz method: we bring it to the House in the form of a motion from individual representatives, because otherwise we can save the bill from a lot of conciliation procedures and a lot of so-called social conciliation procedures. In this way, it can be brought in much sooner, so there is no need to go through the conciliation processes, and there is no need to consult with those social organisations and civil society organisations which would otherwise be required. So, we see this again, we could say, one of his school examples, but unfortunately, that's not surprising, because in the last seven years of Fidesz' governance, mostly from the billings, which were a little bit, let's say, a little bit, they were always submitted this way. But I think it is all our appreciation to Mr Tiba, because he gave his name to this bill, but I would also note here that it is also a relatively strange thing, and this has come up several times in more than one bill disguised as a professional; for example, if I say that the president of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture is a Member of Parliament in the colours of Fidesz, and he is submitting legislative proposals that concern himself, it is a minimum that raises legislative, legislative, moral concerns and questions. But the fact is that Congressman Tiba is also the leader of a sports club, which is the Balmazújváros, which I am glad to have in the NB I, because in East Hungary, when a team gets this high, it is always a pleasure for me, because football is a very good thing, but I think that this is not a morally acceptable thing, when the head of a sports association - of course, wishing to put sports clubs and athletes in the position - presents legislative proposals favourable to his own association. So, I think we should definitely refrain from doing that. Of course, it is not a fortune naive, and I do not think that the Fidesz machine would now come to itself and think that it will not present such legislative proposals in the future, but otherwise I think that if Mr Tállai's Secretary of State were to be an example, we could also mention a sports club, the leader of which is also a political leader. I think it is definitely unworthy that this should happen. [[András Tállai: I've been his leader for 30 years. Let's get this on the record. Please enter it in the record.]] I understand, Mr. Secretary, I respect your 30 years of professionalism. [[András Tállai: It was still a one-party system when I became his leader, I didn't even know there was Fidesz.]] It's just, you know, there's just one problem, it's practically putting your organizations in a position, and I think it's completely unworthy, and I think it's a mockery of the legislation that you're doing. So, using these methods to put different clubs in position, I think it's very false, and I think that making a mockery of legislation, I would like to emphasise it once more. I would like to add that, of course, but I will not repeat the criticisms expressed by my fellow Members, that they are here, in effect, seeking to grant a tax relief to sports clubs and athletes, which, in my view, will indeed cause outrage in many people, given the state of public relations in Hungary today. Of course, everyone likes football, say, my fellow Member Horváth mentioned, unfortunately, in the days that the Kispest relief team suffered a nasty defeat. But it would be enough to mention - for example, my fellow Member Szilágyi mentioned - the glorious Eb act, which I think the whole country was happy to do, and everyone thought that something might start in Hungarian football. Unfortunately, this did not happen, because we saw that what happened was that the Hungarian troops in the international cups did not normally have a role to play in August or early September. The same, I add, is true of Real Madrid and Bayern Munich and similar teams, just because they are not yet in the cups, and the Hungarian teams are no longer in the cups, because by then they will be eliminated in the qualifiers. I accept that sport must be supported, and that football must, of course, be supported again, but I think that there should also be a performance indicator. If we measure our effectiveness to Andorra, we can also conclude that Andorra has also beaten the Hungarian national team. [[13.00]] So I think that the problem is systemic and systemic, and I think that with this bill they will do nothing good, just put some associations and some athletes in the position, but this systemic problem will not be solved. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-11-02-78	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-11-02-79	Thank you very much. In my previous comment, I have forgotten three things, and I would like to add this, also a little in connection with what Mr Szilágyi said in his speech. In particular, sport support is good, so it is right that the state does not withdraw from sport support, because there are sports in which it is simply impossible to achieve results on a world level, without any particular state aid, if any. But the second is equally important, which has also been mentioned, this transparency, is that when these subsidies arrive somewhere, because they are public money, they are used in a transparent way, whether it is Tao or any other aid that the State grants or grants to any organisation. And the third is that it is performance-based, i.e. it is also considered in terms of effectiveness or social utility, and in this, the maximum amount of football can be mentioned in terms of replacement training, and in all other respects, this large-scale fundraising or resource transfer is certainly difficult to interpret in football. And it is also clear that when we talk about football here because there are relatively few sports where Hungarian athletes can still get such high salaries, if only in all other sports successful athletes or anyone who earns pride to the nation could work for such high salaries. But the market doesn't pay so much for the activities of these excellent athletes, but, if necessary, for football players who don't even get on the bench, they're maximum frame members, but they might be able to wait for millions of dollars to sit on the bench, like a Videoton. Therefore, we also consider it important to stress that Nándor Gúr has spoken about this, too, that perhaps the intention is to assume that it can be good, but that the implementation is certainly not so, in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. For two minutes, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of MSZP, notary.
u2017-11-02-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All I want to do is draw attention to an unacceptable contradiction and confirm what I have just said. This is that, if and if it is true - and unfortunately it is true - that we are the second in the world in terms of employment with the lowest tax rates for those who can employ athletes or coaches for this amount of money, for millions of forints, up to HUF 8-10 million, and on the other side for OECD countries, i.e. in the system of developed countries, Hungary is at the end of the line, last in terms of the tax burden we are pouring on people seeking low income. So to make it clear and understandable, while the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage must pay the highest tax and contribution rates in the country, the minimum tax or tax exemption for the tens of millions of HUF earning opportunity for goldfooted footballers who, say, sit on the bench. I wouldn't have a problem if millions of dollars were made by athletes who would bring glory to the country, who would produce results, even millions of forints. But in a way that serves someone's whims, those who do not bring glory, but sometimes bring shame, can obtain, free of charge, tens of millions of forints a month, I think it's a shame. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-82	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2017-11-02-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I waited because I was waiting for them to answer our questions from Fidesz-KDNP, and I'll say it again, they're going to answer in the closing because then we could argue, but it looks like we won't have it. Just for the record, I'm telling you that András Tállai, when he left here, then he told István Tiba to relax, relax, don't answer, they can say what they want. It was in this move, they say what they want, we vote for it, because we're the gentlemen, we're the ones who can do it, and the same arrogant, arrogant and pompous behavior characterizes the Fidesz, which has characterized it in the last seven years. However, this is a very important question, and we are trying to do so, and I am going to try to answer what they will probably say in the closet, how much we do not like sport, how much we do not recognise sports results. Yes, you can. We've told you, too, I'm very, very happy for every single athlete who's fighting for this country, and I respect you very, very much. In fact, I respect the results, which is why I always say that I have immense respect for, for example, Csaba Hegedűs, former president of the Wrestling Federation, our world champion, European champion and Olympic champion athlete, who has done so much for wrestling, and who you, Szilárd Németh, have replaced from the head of the Wrestling Federation, because you have so much respect for his quality. Szilárd Németh, who had so much to do with wrestling that when he spoke, he really wrestled with words a lot so that he could say what he wanted to say. But he's not the right guy to lead a sports fraternity. And once again, we respect and understand the problems they have, but for example, this proposal is primarily about football. The results of the football, except for this European championship, but after which Andorra came right after - but let's not get into this - do not show the results of the money being spent in this. The replacement education they refer to doesn't show either, because the supply academy, which received the most money, received by far the most money from the Tao, the Felsút, look at the compilation of how many replacement players are in it, just like in the frame! It's ridiculous. They are the ones who don't even follow the rules for young people, because they don't want the money, because they try to encourage the Hungarian Football Association by saying that the more young people they play, the more money they get, they don't need the money. Of course they don't have to, because they're raised by money, because they're part of the well-functioning business that we call Fidesz Zrt. in this country, which is constantly robbing this country by treating public money as its own. So we do not have a problem with sport, but with such laws, which are such, I say that they are trying to introduce harmful provisions that turn people against Hungarian sport. So let's see, the amendment basically concerns two areas, and then let's talk about this in more detail. One is the ecstatic taxation of professional athletes. The simplified public liability contribution, the echo, can be chosen by the specific professionals, and in this case the paying agent, i.e. 20% of the sports business, and 15% of the professional athlete. The amendment concerns the payment obligation of the paying agent of 20%, i.e. canceling it. By the way, this tax can only be applied to income above the minimum wage, so it seems that the sports club traditionally pays the contribution for the minimum wage of the player's salary, making this payment essentially tax-free and unpaid, would make this payment if they accepted it, but as we have seen from András Tállai's warning that they will take it easy, relax and surely accept it, because you can do so now. The payments thus lost will obviously continue to grow. Of course, the wages of Hungarian footballers are not public anywhere, but there are estimates, we have seen various estimates and various statements about this, how much a well-earned club can pay for a well-earned footballer, and based on this, the domestic NB I wage level reaches, for example, above the level of the Polish edge, while there is a professional difference, let us admit, and I would prefer that we are more professionally ahead than the Poles, but that is not the case in today's world. [[13.10]] With this, Hungarian football players are in practically the most advantageous position in the country for tax purposes, so they highlight Hungarian football players. You are constantly beating your breasts when you announce 1-2 percent reduction in contributions, while here you are simply releasing 20 percent, 20 percent, for footballers who earn millions of HUF a month, not a year, a month, millions of HUF! The second is the trade tax paid by sports companies, the issue of industry. The local business tax is levied by the local government, with a maximum rate of 2 per cent, which may be less, depending on the municipality. The basis, i.e. the amount paid for, is essentially the net turnover, reducing certain items: the value of purchases of goods sold, the value of mediated services, sub-contracting payments and so on; István Tiba knows that, as he was mayor, he is aware of these issues. It is also proposed to deduct from the tax base, i.e. essentially from the business tax, the revenue of sports companies' own revenues from ticket revenue, advertising, sponsorship, TV broadcasting and the operation of sports facilities. The additional amount thus obtained, i.e. not paid as a tax, can be used in two ways: de minimis, de minimis, or on the basis of specific EU regulations. Let's see the first one. The de minimis point is that, for the last three years, the company will use up to EUR 200 thousand of the aid in this category. 62 million forints at today's exchange rate. As part of the tao, personal wages are also to be classified, it is likely that this will be used less, as sports businesses will not fit into the envelope. Another option is to use it for the purposes set out in the EU regulations - what will happen again in this case? The operating costs of sport facilities and their investments are highlighted in Article 55 of the Regulation, which draws attention to sustainability and improvement of environmental quality. So, I guess there's going to be all kinds of new investments here, which we've just talked about, that it's nice to support sports. But when the country's in this situation, we need more stadiums, we need more beauty, we need more cover, there's 500 people out there in a match, 1500-2000? It's ridiculous. In fact, we think that those who could, we too, would have this view, so those who, and those who are able to do so in sports, should indeed increasingly restructure public funding and encourage, let's say, clubs to increase their own revenues, so they should be encouraged to operate on a market basis, which would be good, because, in general, around 70 percent of the club's budget currently stands for state aid directly or indirectly. At the same time, since sponsorship and TV broadcasting are included, and as we know, they are largely managed by the state, for example, broadcasting fees are sold to Magyar Television at a much higher level than the market price, so it is possible to increase revenues centrally again, and they are expected to be used for further investment and operation of sports facilities, it is true, let us say, that if they are already built, they will not be repaid at least if they have not noticed what the operation will be or what the maintenance will be like. And then it is inevitable, and I really ask my fellow Member, István Tiba, to believe that what I am saying is not personal, I have no problem with István Tiba personally, and I have a problem with the position he is in, so I have a problem with the position that you are a Member of Parliament, Secretary of State András Tállai, head of the NAV, and that both of you are in important positions at a sports club. I saw you shaking your head just now that you're in Balmazújváros. I looked at it on purpose, and I said, "Maybe I was wrong, I looked at the official website; but you are the official representative of the Balmazújváros sports club, according to the website, so it is displayed. András Tállai holds an important position at Zsóry Mezőkövesd FC, I note that as president of the NAV, an association where, of course, I know, they forgot to update the site, which is why two companies that are otherwise in liquidation could sponsor Mezőkövesd - it's a rather spicy story, but it doesn't matter. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] The fact that you play important positions in sports clubs is, in my opinion, a reverse. That is why Jobbik will want to put an end to this situation as soon as it comes to government, and political engagement will be incompatible with the position of either associations or sports associations, because we believe that this could be corruption, it could be abuse, it could be corruption. Which is why this is a very serious question, by the way, is that we just remember what was here two weeks ago! My fellow Member Ákos Hadházy stood up and asked the government why, when they wanted to buy respirators, the company that would purchase the ventilators for almost half as much did not prefer it, was excluded from this public procurement procedure, and why they preferred and helped those who gave these ventilators more expensive. And then the Prime Minister stood up and said that it was a serious thing, something like this had never been here in Parliament to lobby on behalf of a company. Once again, it was said that the state should not buy such expensive ventilators, and Viktor Orbán envisaged an investigation. I beg you, what is this law about? ! It's about whether one of István Tiba's clubs is doing the same or not. You're lobbying for your own club right now. [[Dr. István Tiba intervenes.]] Isn't that outrageous? Yes, you can. Yes, you can. Right now, you're an NB I club, a member of a working sports business, and that's a bit of a backseat, since you're basically putting money in your own pocket, with this law, if you accept it. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] Well, that's outrageous, too. Well, then the Prime Minister should be upset about this, too. You should be asking for this whole situation. (Attila Mesterházy: That's right!) I just think you guys are a little out of reality. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame! Nándor Gúr: Shame!]] They think they can do anything in this country. They believe that in this country the public money that comes not only from the trees, but from the people who actually work for it, from their taxes they create the opportunity to spend it for certain purposes, the public money you treat as their own. They are completely treated as their own, and when it comes to others, they are outraged, as the Prime Minister has done, they cry out outrage, corruption and lobbying, and here, when they bring such laws before the Parliament, there is no problem, and they are not even willing to argue about it. They're not even willing to argue about it, it's the same as a number of other laws that were in front of the House, such was the law on chimney sweeping services a few days ago, when, apart from you, the profession, the President of the Republic, Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the Deputy Ombudsman, István Tarlós, the entire opposition, everyone said that bringing such a law into the House was life-threatening, and you were just as arrogantly and arrogantly saying that it's okay, say what you want, and we'll vote for it. Now I see the same thing: say what you want to say about this law, you can raise the opposition's voice, you can normally state the arguments that could convince you that this bill should be withdrawn, but you also do not answer the questions, you refuse to debate; say the opposition, then the voting time comes, and then you will vote for the same law as a voting machine, and you will again benefit yourself. Once again, I declare and repeat: Jobbik for Hungary The Movement considers it very important to support sport, we will support sport by going to government, but we will require much more transparent, much more reasonable use through sports subsidies, transparent sports subsidies, everyone can check every single forint, and it is also necessary to verify that the state's task is to use the money for sport for sport as well, and not to steal it, and Fidesz Zrt. disappear in a company of companies. Thank you so much for listening. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]]
u2017-11-02-84	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, for two minutes.
u2017-11-02-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Mr Tiba, Mr notary, I feel it is time for you to speak, not at the end, there is no interest, but now that my fellow Member has said some things, before others have to answer. [[13.20]] You know, at a time when, up to HUF 250 million a year, they offer the possibility of using the echo on a monthly basis in the order of HUF 21 million for some of the footballers, especially the favored footballers, I think you have something to say. They have a reason to speak, especially when I think about how legislation is taking place between the walls of this House in the last few weeks and months. By writing to individual Members, as my fellow Member Zsolt Legény said, the laws are coming in to avoid any kind of social consultation. They will then do this, they will really get out of any kind of social consultation, and when they come into the House, they will raise comments, questions, proposals in line with the bill, they will not even, together with Mr State Secretary, respond to the debate to discuss all these issues between Parliament's walls. Don't you feel that this is a mockery of Parliament? Do you not feel that this is, in addition to mocking Parliament, the contempt of the many, the millions of those who have given their supporting votes to political parties other than you? You don't think this is a normal method of law, as you continue to do, that you should change that, if only for a few months, what is ahead of you, but should you change it? Exactly so that the laws of the common good can be adopted, one that supports sport, but not in this way, and not those to whom you do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-86	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi for two minutes.
u2017-11-02-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will also speak in the interest of perhaps giving time for the pro-government representatives to prepare themselves to answer the questions during the debate. By the way, a very important question arises from István Tiba. You, Congressman, I think you'll be running for parliamentary elections on your own. We're close to the parliamentary elections. Let's not forget that you were the mayor of Balmazújváros. Both, by the way, are very responsible positions in my opinion. I think that in a law like this, people in Balmasúzújváros can be seriously interested in it, and we would expect data about it, because I think you have calculated what that means, say, for Balmasúzújváros, if this law is passed. How much money will make Balmazújváros fall? How much is the loss of revenue that will result in the city's budget? And then people can figure out what, say, they might have spent on the money they're about to give to football as a beneficiary. This is an important question because people can decide whether they want to support football as well. I know that, by the way, you have a lot of support, and I'm glad that, at least in terms of the number of viewers in Balmazújváros, there are quite a number of audiences out there in the matches compared to the size of the team, so it might really be important for the city to make football work well in the city. But I think that people have the right to know and decide in the elections that they want us to say that the millions that are now going to football under this law want to spend it on football, or something else, medical development, education development, or anything else. Then I think it would be fair to say that the people of Balmazújváros know how this bill will affect their lives and their opportunities. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-88	Thank you, Congressman. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. The rapporteur, Mr István Tiba, said that he wished to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-89	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. First of all, I would like to state to the record that Mr Szilágyi was not telling the truth. If I were to say it in his style, he lied when he told me what the Secretary of State told me. Nothing like that has been said. All in all, Congressman Szilágyi thought it was intriguing how good it was to perform this. Nothing like that happened. He told me not to respond to personal things. That's it. Nevertheless, I think it is fair to say this. The other thing you lied about is my position on the sport in Balmazújváros. There's one or two people in this room who know how to run local governments, and they know that if there's a government-owned kft of 100%, there's a representative of the local government appointed by the body of representatives, that's who I am. So I'm no official at Balmazújvárosi Sport Kft. If you'd seen it... [[György Szilágyi shows his phone lifted: He is here on the website!]] That's not an official document! Take a look, there's company information, Congressman. I listened to you with patience, no matter how stupid you were talking. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I think you should hear me out. [[György Szilágyi shows his phone lifting: Here is to Balmazújvárosi Sport Kft.!]] So I suggest, Congressman, that if you want, you take a look at the company court. ownership structure... [[György Szilágyi: Balmazújvárosi Sport Kft.!]] Is that the court-martial? See Balmazújvárosi Kft. at the Court of Justice. its ownership structure, its manager, and who the officials are! I'm not in it, so he ran into a hole, but that's not a problem. I am president of the Balmazújváros FC, which is a replacement club, so it has nothing to do with professional football and professional businesses, so unfortunately that's the case. [[György Szilágyi shows his phone lifting: This is Balmazújvárosi Kft. official website!]] Congressman! Congressman [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I see you're stuck with the needle, so you can't look at it. Go to the court-martial records and check it out. That's what I'm signaling to Zsolt Bachelor. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: I understand you have nothing to do with football.]] That this is how it appears in the press is one thing, but the press doesn't bother, obviously, because you didn't look at this law, what it's really about. It's about sports, it's about the law. He asked Congressman Szilágyi... [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: Why couldn't this be said in the debate? Attila Mesterházy: Why didn't you speak to her? At least we could have responded! Dr. Zsolt Legány: If I had received an answer and I was wrong, I would have admitted my mistake! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-11-02-90	Congressman Tiba, notary, continue your speech calmly.
u2017-11-02-91	I'll keep going. Congressman Szilágyi asked why sports are not accepted by the public. You, the opposition, are working on the fact that the law on sport - which is not about football, but about sport - is about chess, from chess to horseback riding, archery, handball, volleyball, ice hockey, everything in the world - is obviously trying to use the debate and general debate of the law to create further resistance and opposition to this law through football, even though it helps all professional athletes. I must grieve you, because, thanks to God, in other sports that are truly more successful than football - we hope that someday football will be so - there are also athletes who earn such a large amount of money as football. I do not think it right to take an example, Mr Horváth, now the example of the Honvéd replacement against Krasnodar, but it does not say that the Hungarian U17 team, let's say, beat the Netherlands and came out first. So they're clearly suggesting that it's all about football, that they don't have anything else to build. Obviously, this is your right, and our job is not to deal with it, but to help Hungarian sport. This law serves to help Hungarian sports. They're suggesting that athletes don't pay echos. Yeah, athletes pay echos. [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: Less!]] Sports companies don't pay echos. So that's what this is about. Congressman asked me to answer you about Balmazújváros. I'm guessing with what I just said, "Sports Ltd." 100% of the city's property, he got an answer to his question, because after the owner, he supports the football club, so less support should be given if the football club is left with more revenue. [[György Szilágyi: How much? Number! Number!]] I hope you could do that... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, I'm gonna check the number. Much less than you have to give now. So it's a very positive thing in the life of sports-loving people in Balmazújváros, like it's not just football, it's handball. Next time, I think you'd be lucky to focus on the law first, check it out. I don't even want to respond to the LMP's comment because it contained so many untruths, and it was so clear that it was nothing but a demonstration of how the campaign in Werber would work. We did it, we already know it, so that's what it's about. [[13.30]] The fact that Congresswoman doesn't even know what a notary is, so a municipality doesn't have a notary, there's a notary there, that's not a problem, so that's not interesting. Obviously, this was not the goal of giving our opinions crediblely and competently, but of making people hate, trying to provoke people. You've done this, and you'll probably get a red dot from the people who wrote this text to you. I would ask my fellow Members, please, to consider it realisticly, to read the law, to see that it is about Hungarian sport, not football, it is about all Hungarian sports businesses. If you do not believe me, ask the operators of sports businesses and their owners, go to women's volleyball in Pécsaba, go to Veszprém, go to Szeged, Congressman Horváth is usually at the Újpest Stadium, ask Vasas, Mr Jámbor whether this is good for him or not, and they will tell these owners, these sports business operators that this law is useful or not useful to them. Then, when you do, you'll have to make a decision with this knowledge. I trust you will change your mind then. I wish you all the best of luck with this. [[Nándor Gúr: Football is above all else!]]
u2017-11-02-92	Thank you very much, Congressman István Tiba, notary. Dear Parliament, You have until 4 p.m. on Friday to submit the amendments. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the year 2012 CXLVII on the specific tax of small companies and the small company tax. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. [[György Szilágyi is talking to Dr. István Tiba.]] With all due respect, Congressman Szilágyi, I would like you to continue your conversation in the hallway. Presentation by Fidesz MEPs Gulyás Gergely, Róbert Répássy and Mónika Bartos [[The president's ringing the bell.]] T/18008. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! During our discussions many times, how important it would be to put small businesses in a position to reduce their tax burden and to make them more competitive. I, too, fully agree with you, and I trust that this proposal will also serve these objectives. Of course, the conditions must be created, and we are going step by step on this path. As you have seen, every year since the economic turn of 2013, we have seen our country's economic performance improve, it is stable and continuous.Since 2013, there have been a series of economic policy measures that have served to improve our country's competitiveness, to improve the well-being of Hungarian people, families, youth, the quality of life, to increase incomes, to strengthen businesses, and to further dynamicise economic growth. They have also seen that the tax system has also been reformed. The tax changes in recent years also point in the direction of reducing the tax burden on citizens and businesses and improving their opportunities. I would just like to highlight a few of the tax changes affecting the corporate sector in 2017 because the proposal before us is a step on the road. Thus, in 2017, the company's business was reduced, from 10 percent to 19 percent; in addition, corporate tax in a similar way, which meant a reduction of approximately HUF 145 billion for 400 thousand companies this year. Similarly, the rate of the social contribution tax, the amount of the health contribution, has decreased. It was 27 per cent earlier, instead it decreased to 22 per cent, and it will decrease to 20 per cent in 2018. Small businesses are very popular with specific taxes on small taxpayers, kata and small company tax. In the first half of 2017, nearly 40,000 companies chose the Kata, which increased the number to 210,000. As far as kiva is concerned, its popularity has also increased. The number of harvests in 2016 was around 7,000, and by mid-2017 it doubled, i.e. 14,000. In 2017, favourable tax changes also affected taxpayers according to kata and kiva. Just a few thoughts about that. In principle, they have to pay 50,000 forints a month. By subtracting the amount, stakeholders will be free of corporate and personal income tax, as well as contributions and social contribution tax. The kata changed in 2017 in so far as the previous revenue limit of 6 million increased to HUF 12 million. This means that the person who chooses to do so will enjoy the benefits of catataxation up to HUF 12 million per year. As far as the cash is concerned, the kiva has changed significantly in terms of both the number of employees and the tax base compared to the conditions until 2016. A taxable person may choose a kiva if the number of employees does not exceed 50 persons. This was not the case in 2016, it was 25 people. Another aspect is that the expected revenue and balance sheet total of the previous year is not expected to exceed HUF 500 million. In 2017 there was a further change in the case of already promulgators that they would not cease to be kiva-taxable if 50 people or HUF 500 million were exceeded. Automatic exclusion from the extract occurs only if the number exceeds 100 or the revenue exceeds HUF 1 billion. The tax base of the kiva has changed. The basis of the kiva since 2017 has not been the value of the change in the previously characteristic funds adjusted by the funds withdrawn and withdrawn from the company, but also the result of the dividends and capital operations approved in the period considered and the balance of certain additional adjustment items, increased by personal payments, but at least by the amount of personal payments. The key of the kiva has decreased from 16 percent to 14 percent from 2017 and will decrease from 2018 to 13 percent. As a result of the changes, the determination of the tax liability has become simpler and more predictable, and loss relief has also become more favourable in 2017. As far as the present proposal is concerned, it concerns both the specific tax of small taxpayers and the tax of small companies. As my fellow Members have read, the proposal also extends the option of choosing a method of taxation according to the specific tax of taxpayers to lawyers. I would like to note that the 2012 CXLVII on the specific tax on small companies and the small company tax. According to the rules of law, individual lawyers can still opt for taxation on the basis of the specific tax of taxpayers. Therefore, this proposal allows legal firms, in addition to individual lawyers, to tax by category. Ladies and gentlemen, You have seen that the proposal also concerns who's who, as it provides for a lighter for small company tax taxpayers in the area of loss relief and write-down. It allows for a negative cash flow outcome generated before the tax year 2017 and not yet taken into account as a reduction in the tax base, i.e. the recognition of past losses during the tax year of small enterprises as a stand-alone loss. The proposal also provides for the possibility of a loss write-off in view of the new investments made before the 2017 tax year. The proposal also contains the necessary clarifications and technical specifications in the context of the above, which allow the use of the loss previously incurred. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that by studying the bill, it is considered eligible and will be supported. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[13.40]]
u2017-11-02-94	Thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. I'll ask if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-02-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/18008 on the amendment of the Small Tax Act and the Small Business Tax Act. Mr Gulyás Gergely, Dr Répássy, and Mr Mónika Bartos have tabled a motion for self-representation, which I support on behalf of the government. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-02-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We'd expect a little more from the government than a sentence to justify things. This highlights that the government is not introducing such proposals, and it is not the first time that individual representatives have come here as a motion for a systemic change, whether in the tax system or in any other area. There is no reason or reason for this. The normal thing is that if the government wanted to make some changes in a tax system, it would have to be presented by the government, because then they would be obliged to negotiate between the various bodies of the government, otherwise there would be many problems, and many problems could be eliminated from the point of view of the application of the law, and it would be normal, so it is fair to submit such a law. So in no way is it rational, unfair, or tasteful that this is happening, just as it is not tasteful that two lawyers present a proposal for lawyers for lawyers. So it would have been more appropriate, to put it mildly, to look at it, if not for two lawyers to submit these amendments to the Parliament, because it is bound to be remembered in the mind of man what kind of lobbying interests may be behind this, what formulaic or concrete remuneration can be given to those who bring such a great discount to representatives of a particular sector. The other is that this method is not right because there must be more professions, more areas where it would be worth considering whether and how the state should and if so, how to grant discounts or facilitations to representatives of those professions. So I think that in the future it would be appropriate in any way if the government had not operated on me constantly with this individual amendment motion. The other is that you missed a debate, this was a debate on tax legislation here in Parliament this morning, and we discussed the issues that you raised in your speech as a government success for a relatively long time. I don't see exactly how the country's competitiveness has anything to do with lawyers being allowed to catalog in the next period, but there must be some very rough bridge between the two. However, the fact that this government has acted in such a way as to facilitate the tax system, we have heard here earlier in the debate that you are the government of tax reductions, then let me recall one or two of my sentences from the previous stage of the debate. Since 2010, you have introduced a very large number of new taxes, some of which I would like to say, because we are also talking about businesses: special tax on severance payments, transaction tax, special tax on telecoms, utility tax, insurance tax, accident tax, advertising tax, tourism development contributions, and I am sure that they could still be classified for a long time. Overall, I have calculated that since the change in government in 2010, the number of central taxes has almost doubled, Congresswoman, the number of these taxes has increased from 34 to 60. In addition, what you have referred to as a tax reduction, to put it mildly, was unfairly done and, on the other hand, with results contrary to their own communication. After all, it is true, as you mentioned, I think you said 40,000 companies, if I remember correctly, and that 150 billion forints remain in these companies, so it is accurate that most of this HUF 150 billion stays in multinational companies and banks, so there must be 200 out of the 40,000, which puts 80 percent of this in the pocket, and indeed Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are not very concerned about this because of different parameters and criteria. So in Hungarian, you always talk about helping small and medium-sized enterprises and national businesses, this is not true in this case, because it is specifically multinational companies, large companies and banks that enjoy the result of this tax reduction. So I have to say to you, that's why it would be good to think in some uniform structure and system, not to strengthen the rule with one exception. In the meantime, I can say, of course, that if, at the moment, lawyers, smaller law firms are in a situation where they are able to pay less taxes in a simpler, simpler way, it is, of course, a welcome and in any way supportive objective, but I will say it once again, neither the method nor the explanation is appropriate for this amendment. I think it would be much fairer and simpler, there are a lot of lawyers in Fidesz, if they want to make a gesture to the legal society, they have a right to do so, and we say that it would be worth seeing if there are other professional groups with whom it would be worth making an exception in this respect, and then it would certainly be fairer to do so. It is therefore not yet clear at this moment whether the MSZP fraction can support this draft, which will be decided in the debate and in the light of any amendments in the MSZP fraction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-02-98	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-11-02-99	Mr President, Dear House, A new gem of Fidesz-KDNP legislation has come before us, which, in itself, is not certain that there is anything wrong with it, so the fact that law firms are being pulled into the cataclysmic circle would not be a particular problem, but I see that Mr. Secretary of State is wagging his head, but please explain to us why they do not include in the justification that this is, in your view, for what reasons, along what motivations are needed. Obviously, they can make arguments, so I daresay that this proposal has not been submitted to Parliament without any damned professional argument even in the closing line. So I hope that there are no lobbyists in Hungary that are so overpowering the Government of Hungary that they will cheat any change in taxation without a single technical justification. If you say that, where appropriate, a reduction in the scope of an EU directive should be resolved with this bill, which, according to the EU directive, can only be made by companies with unlimited liability, and that clicking means income records, but Hungary has not asked the law firms to be included in this possible list, then I say that this can be an acceptable professional basis for debate, and this debate should be conducted obviously. But the fact that you put this package before us without any normal justification does not require me to find signs for it, because I respect the people who work here, and I do not wish to put them in a position to write down what I think they are, but I will not say it. The fact is that not only the Members of Parliament, but also the voters behind them, are being humiliated, and they are doing this insolence, because it does not even occur to you to engage in normal professional debates in the Hungarian Parliament, with normal, appropriate justification. What is here is little, and I would like to emphasise it once again, it would even be eligible, because we see that the limit of the cata is typically exceeded by the larger law firms or multinational companies, so it will not mean anything that is ahead of us. [[13.50]] Here are the start-up law firms, small companies, typically Hungarian-owned companies in the beneficiary group, which I have nothing against. I could, by the way, bring up a few professional arguments, but I don't want to do it at all, because I'm glad that if someone in Hungary, especially a career beginner, can make it easier. But why can't you explain why there can't be a normal debate about this area? Why do they try to push through what they won't be able to do in a year or two again, because your government will eventually end, and then they will face the fact that, oh, but it would be good if they could enforce their will through professional debates, because you won't be in a position of power. And then they will cry back at this opportunity to make decisions where, if necessary, we will take decisions together for the benefit of Hungarian social groups. There is one reason why I can support this, even in this form, and that is that entry into this system is not mandatory, so it is definitely an optional system. And since the income of the larger, well-run law firms usually exceeds the catapla, and the start-ups stay below it, I say that Hungarian small companies and start-ups can be given a substantial discount here. Given the non-binding nature of entry, what lies before us is clearly eligible, but after seven years of parliamentary presence, I am still amazed at the fact that they are unable to attach a normal justification to a bill. And of course, here they are politely sitting through the debate, listening to what the opposition representatives that you do not love very much say, but no longer commending them for taking meaningful reactions to the debate, not within the framework of the closing, but during the debate. By the way, I am not the one being humiliated, but the electoral camp behind us, which, by the way, is of the magnitude of a million; they too deserve the respect that we do not receive at the moment. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-02-100	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the mayor of the political group.
u2017-11-02-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This bill is a combination of the previous proposal to raise soccer wages, and also the introduction of a lobbying press into the law. The difference is that here, not a rural Fidesz representative in corruption, but a vice president and group leader of Fidesz, but the method is the same, the same goal is the same: it is undeserving to initiate a narrow group and enrich it from our tax forints without any visible social purpose or advantage. The proposed kata for extension is a reduced tax designed to help micro-enterprises, who would be in a difficult situation due to the high administrative and tax burden, because they cannot adapt to them, so they cannot concentrate on their work. Lawyers, law firms, that's not exactly the layer of people who should be afraid that they won't be able to comply with the law. The presenters, Gergely Gulyás and Róbert Répássy, know this precisely because they are lawyers themselves. This is clearly the captured state, where individual and group lobbie-based looting takes away public wealth. Right now, they're filling the pockets of people who don't need it. It's not the lawyers who need any support, it's the people who live below the minimum living, the workers, but the millions of people who can't make money every month, the dreary health care, the declining education. It is a strange feature of the proposal that it will likely have an impact - of course, of course, you know that the large law firms will not employ employees after this, but rather katás entrepreneurs who are not actually entrepreneurs. By doing so, the Fidesz faction leader is self-promoting illegal practices, sheltered employment. Kata doesn't have to be extended anyway. The administrative burden should be reduced for all businesses and the burden of work for all. The proposal makes public burdens more unequal. Almost half of a minimum wage employee's salary is taken by the state, pays 33.5 percent of his gross salary in the first place, and even his employer pays 20 percent. At the same time, lawyers will pay up to HUF 600,000 a year for taxes after 12 million revenues. This is a total of 5 percent of the revenue, which is shocking and in no way proportionate. In addition, you still have to pay a fixed HUF 50,000 local business tax, which is also a discount for cata enterprises, so that lawyers can also enjoy it by adopting the proposal. So a lawyer will pay a fifth-tenth of the tax on his rates as a simple worker. The specific tax of small-tax companies raises a lot of questions in itself and forces a lot of people into forced business. In most cases, the situation of this type of company can be understood, but providing legal firms with this type of preferential form of taxation is simply unfair. In the context of the cata, it would be more necessary that, if someone is a self-employed catatonic, the tax office treats them fairly and does not punish them for situations where they are excluded from the tax form because of documents, declarations, and sometimes because of the NAV's own fault. It would be necessary that the NAV does not unnecessarily destroy the forced micro-enterprises who are struggling to survive and do not suspend tax numbers, because the system update of the National Tax and Customs Office has lost the declaration already submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, These are the real problems that should be addressed, and not to provide additional tax incentives to sports clubs, and not to increase the possibility of law firms with a mixed tax discount. The focus should be on wage differences and the problems of the unfair tax system, and not on building buddy feudalism, because it is very finite. The machine is already creaking and creaking, and this condition is completely unsustainable. Therefore, LMP does not support the proposal. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2017-11-02-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The income threshold of the kata is HUF 12 million per year, and the monthly burden payable is HUF 50,000. In this respect, the content of this bill, or, in line with this, what it has to say on my part, is not primarily directed against the law firms concerned, but rather, how and how laws are adopted, how personalised legislation are carried out, how they intend to make general rules with individual representatives' proposals. We have just discussed the issue of tax-free soccer payments or the possibility of granting grants to free-of-charge sport organisations. The fundamental problem is, according to my values, what Congresswoman Mónika Bartos is talking about, only because of a different approach. He says that the tax system has been transformed in a way that benefits people. Well, it was fidesz-style, fidesz-style for the benefit of people, because if this means that the tax and contribution burden of a person in a low income band is more than doubled, and this is rated as positive, then I would argue with this, and in the case of minimum wagers, guaranteed minimum wagers, this is the case, that the tax burden is 73 thousand forints compared to the previous HUF 32,000 compared to 2010, for example, the tax burden they have to bear after a month's minimum wage. Well, that really is a fidesz-style positive tax conversion. I wish for us to have as little of this as possible. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Mónika Bartos if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Mónika Bartos: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[14.00]]
u2017-11-02-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their comments. I find such debates fruitful because we are all Members and have the confidence of the people. That we have an opinion on the tax system, and that we can share it with each other, is certainly a good thing, and hopefully we all have the desire to help people become more prosperous and to make their daily lives easier. As I said in the introductory thought of the proposal, this is only possible step by step, because a strong, well-performing economy is needed to create the foundations of these in a responsible and responsible way. That is why I agree with a number of speakers that the area, the group of entrepreneurs, should be increased as much as possible by those who receive such facilitation. That's what the government's working on. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Nándor Gúr.]] I really thank you for what has been said by my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, for the opportunity to help those working in the start-up law firm, and we have a shared responsibility in this. My fellow Members focused on one thing in their comments. I have noticed that the main concern was Kata, but an important part of the proposal that I have said to you is perhaps in relatively detail that it also includes significant facilitations in the area of change, loss relief and description. I hope that, although this has not been highlighted, they can support it, and overall, if they do have criticism, they will be able to support the objectives of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. It follows that the 1996 CXXVI on the use of a specific part of personal income tax according to the taxpayer's provisions follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by Zoltán Balog and Zoltán Bóna Fideszes and our colleague Miklós Soltész KDNP T/17957. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-02-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, People's attachment to religion and church is typically stable, mostly a lifelong commitment. This manifests itself not only in participation in the life of faith, but also in the pursuit of religious beliefs, but also in the material support of the goals that each denomination considers important. In addition to direct donations, this includes the possibility that all taxpayers can declare that they offer 1 percent of the personal income tax they pay to one of the recognized churches. 1 percent of personal income tax can now be offered for the benefit of 31 established churches and one priority budget allocation. Based on the available data, nearly 1.5 million taxpayers offered nearly HUF 6 billion to the established churches last year. These funds are also used to maintain several health and social care institutions and to run several educational institutions every year, while ensuring that their religious functions are carried out. Over the past six years, the number of children attending church institutions has increased enormously. While in 2010, 112 thousand children went to church institutions within the framework of public education, in 2015 there were more than 220,000 children. During the 2008-9 academic year 318 church-owned kindergartens, primary schools and high schools were operated, this figure increased to more than 729 by 14-15. These figures also show that churches carry out important public education tasks, the burdens of which are largely borne by the 1 percent offered. Dear House, According to the proposal, the tax authority will take into account a statement of 1 percent to be offered to churches until it is amended or withdrawn. This will facilitate both taxpayers and churches. By the end of the time limit for making a declaration, the individual may amend or withdraw his declaration if he no longer wishes to avail himself of the offer. In order to facilitate valid declarations, the tax authority shall inform the individual in a targeted way if the beneficiary it has previously designated no longer meets the legal conditions, so that it can submit a new statement in the time offered. The amendment of the declaration system, like the tax administration of the draft declaration, reduces the administrative burden on individuals, which means making annual declarations. The provisions of the submitted bill have already been raised as a demand from several churches, since it has been possible for civil society organisations to get to know the data of the offerers. It is therefore also intended to remove the limitation of rights between the churches and civil society organisations in this respect. We believe that access to personal data should also be ensured for ecclesiastical beneficiaries. Individuals should be guaranteed that the church uses their data in connection with its religious activities. The amendment will allow churches to request information on individuals who have been in their direction and have authorised the tax authority to transmit their data to the beneficiary. In order to make the reporting process more efficient, it is appropriate to redirect the data to an electronic route, which is also an advantage for the beneficiaries, as they obtain the required data more quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, The objectives of the bill submitted are clear. On the one hand, removing the regulatory distinction between civil society organisations and churches in terms of offering 1 percent of personal income tax in order to give churches access to the data of individuals offering them; on the other hand, to reduce the administrative burden on them. I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-02-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr. András Tállai asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-02-109	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the submission of an independent motion is to fulfil the commitments entered into in the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Reformed Church of Hungary. According to the agreement, the individual in favour of the Reformed Church of Hungary may make his declaration for several years or for an indefinite period, and, if he or she agrees to do so, he or she may also know the name and address of the individual by settlement. The agreement will be provided by the government to all established churches. The self-proposal contains an amendment to the law on the use of a specific part of personal income tax as provided for by the taxpayer, so that the statement by the ecclesiastical holder is taken into account by the state tax authority until it is amended or withdrawn after it has been made. As a result, the individual does not have to submit a declaration every year. This also reduces the administrative burden on individuals. By the end of the time limit for making a declaration, the individual may amend or withdraw his declaration if he no longer wishes to avail himself of the offer. In this context, it also contains clarification of the current provisions on the procedure to be followed in the event of an invalid declaration. In order to facilitate valid declarations, the State tax and customs authorities will provide targeted information to individuals from whom the previously designated beneficiary no longer fulfils the legal conditions. It is also necessary to clarify the rules on the obligation to guard in order to preserve the declarations until withdrawal or amendment for an appropriate period of time by the NAV. The self-proposal also states that church beneficiaries may also be informed of the number of provisions per settlement in the event of a request for this. In the future, like the civilian beneficiaries, churches may request information on individuals who have been in their direction and have authorised the State tax and customs authorities to transmit their data to the beneficiary. [[14.10]] There is also a guarantee rule in the motion that private individuals' data may be used by the church only in connection with religious activity. I ask that Members support the bill, which is also supported by the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-02-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, in this draft law too, I think that the criticism is justified that, if I read the proposal correctly, this law was submitted on the basis of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Reformed Church of Hungary - at least that is what the explanatory statement states. Then let me ask you why this law should be run as a motion for individual representatives. If the government agrees with anyone, a partner, why doesn't the government bring in this proposal? Why does this come on the table as a separate motion from two Members? There is always a question of what the government wants to avoid, bypass, bypass, by circumventing the government's agreement on government administration, which is an independent motion to bring amendments of this type to the House. Then there is a question that may have a very simple explanation, and then the Secretary of State will certainly address it, or the author himself. How does knowing by settlements add to it that I know which individual has given me a 1% contribution with what address? So why do you have to tear down one percent of them in settlements, how and where to offer them? Is there any intention that this might also serve political purposes? So what is the explanation for the fact that this municipal breakdown is also very important? Not to mention that it was not likely that it was a coincidence that the law spoke differently from civilians, because religion was always a narrow, strict, personal matter, a matter of private conviction. Therefore, the protection of this type of information may require greater care and greater rigour, but I also accept, of course, the claim that if an individual provides that his data can be known, he has, of course, the right and the opportunity to do so. Of course, another question is how, how to register their data, and how to manage these data. As for me, it is a difficult wording to define, which Mr Secretary of State and Member said, that private individuals must be guaranteed that the church uses their data in connection with its religious activities, because this also involves a very broad interpretation of a church. But let us assume and accept this statement that, of course, the churches want to use this data in a hundred percent of the time in favour of the highest fairness. Therefore, to be honest, we have received this initiative in this way, in this form, in a somewhat incomprehensible way. Just as we do not understand why it is not possible to extend, for example, the longer-term offer of 1 percent to everyone. So in Hungarian, the problem is always when exceptions arise in a system, it can always cause bigger problems from the side of implementation. So we are eager to see if there will be any amendments to this independent motion of representation or not. So for now, the Socialist Party is in the position of abstaining. So without this information, we will certainly not be able to support this law. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Szászfalvi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, According to the agreement signed between the Government of Hungary and the Reformed Church of Hungary on 4 October 2017, the Reformed Church of Hungary will be able to learn the number of individuals offered for its benefit per settlement, if the individual has made an offer for its benefit, to know the name and address of this individual and to make his statement for several years or for an indefinite period. The commitments made in the agreement shall be granted to all established churches. The government undertook to submit the relevant bill to Parliament until 31 October. In this respect, the Minister of Human Resources submitted an individual bill to which the State Secretary responsible for ecclesiastical, ethnic and civil society relations joined. The proposed law, taking into account the terms of the agreement, aims to ensure that the statement by the ecclesiastical holder is taken into account by the tax authority until it is amended or withdrawn after it has been made, so that the individual does not have to submit a declaration every year. By the end of the time limit for making a declaration, the individual may amend or withdraw his declaration if he no longer wishes to avail himself of the offer. Since the registration of beneficiaries is valid until withdrawal, the date on which individuals are informed is not bound by any possible rejection of the annual referral requests, provision should also be made for invalid statements in those cases. Following the introduction of the possibility of a provision valid until withdrawal, if the designated ecclesiastical organisation is not included in the list of beneficiaries entitled to offer on the NAV website, the declaration is invalid due to the interests of the beneficiary, which information is not considered to be a tax secret, the individual may be informed thereof. This information is intended to reduce the number of invalid declarations. [[Attila Gelencsér takes his place in the notary seat.]] In order to facilitate valid declarations, the tax authority shall inform the individual in a targeted way if the previously designated beneficiary no longer complies with the legal conditions, so that it is able to submit a new statement in the time offered. The amendment of the declaration system to this effect, like the tax administration of the draft declaration, reduces the administrative burden of individuals, which means making an annual declaration. The number of provisions per municipality can be communicated to the ecclesiastical beneficiaries only by electronic means, taking into account the extent of the reporting. In view of the processing processes of the declarations submitted, it is also necessary to specify the earliest date for reporting. Access to personal data should also be ensured for ecclesiastical beneficiaries. Individuals should be guaranteed that the church can use their data only in connection with its religious activities. Dear Parliament, These demands have already been raised by several churches. It should be noted that, for example, it has been possible for civil society organisations to know the data of the offerers and not for established churches, so the bill aims to remove the limitation of the law of the established churches in this respect. Of course, the question may arise as to why the possibility of making statements until they are withdrawn should be granted only to those who offer them to the church, why the legislator does not wish to grant this possibility in relation to civil society organisations. In this respect, the answer is that 1 percent of personal income tax is currently available for the benefit of 31 established churches and of a key budget allocation - the National Talent Program - while the other 1 percent is distributed among tens of thousands of civil society organisations. Based on the data on the offer, about 1.3 million taxpayers offered nearly HUF 5.5 billion to the churches and the budget appropriations, and 1.8 million taxpayers offered nearly HUF 7.5 billion to civil society organisations of the order of ten thousand. On this basis, KDNP naturally supports the proposed bill, and we ask the other factions to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2017-11-02-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-115	Mr President, Dear House, I'll be very brief, because I can't change the government's debate culture. Today we are sitting on the third agenda where either the justification is missing from the proposal, or the justification is openly false, and then they answer something in the closing words, but there is no debate. So, obviously, I'll give you the point, but let's not make this too long. There is nothing wrong with the Government of Hungary concluding an agreement with a historic church. Health and social institutions that are maintained by the churches concerned are also very important to me, and they take on a lot of public tasks that even the public system is more difficult to find solutions to, so this is an area of undisputed importance. At the same time, it is completely incomprehensible why, while one half of the proposal is logical and eligible, it is necessary to spoil it with pointless things. I can fully support the fact that if someone once decorated one of our churches by referring one percent to him and does not wish to change his decision, he can do so without any obstacles, so he should not have to repeat his statement every year. Absolutely logical, fully supported by me. At the same time, I still do not see the professional answer to the fact that if you do so with the local animal shelter or with a civil society association that the other could and would want to support, from 1 percent, what technical, legal and economic obstacles there are to prevent you from doing the same. In particular, the fact that there is a difference in billions of offers and the number of bidders, some of these billions of forints are distributed among various organizations in terms of the amount that can be offered, and this is not a technical obstacle in my view. In the century. It is therefore incomprehensible why the lifting of the limitation of the rights of civilians or its intention does not appear in this proposal if, by the way, they are aimed at lifting the alleged limitation of the churches in the same way. And there I have fears that if the data that is the data of the taxpayers is released and obviously I am not afraid of our historic churches in this regard, but there is no guarantee that if these data are released, they will be used in a responsible manner, and that there can be no guarantee of that, because there is no penalty for doing the wrong thing, they will have to face some kind of consequences. And here, if there is incorrect data use or poor data processing, then the debtor has only one solution to get away with requests, if any: to move away from his place of residence. It's a specific and life-like change in the data provided, and obviously we can't expect anyone to do that. Therefore, as long as the justification remains incomplete in this regard, I must say that, despite certain well-meaning points of the proposal, this will remain unsupportable in this form and with such a level of negotiation. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2017-11-02-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-02-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, the bill under discussion contains reasonable facilitation, on the other hand, it is very one-sided and incomplete, and it favours only the churches unilaterally. Offering 1 percent of personal income tax is an important source for both churches and civil society organisations. It also increases tax awareness. However, the system has a number of other problems, and the loss from non-regulation is only one of the most serious and it must be referred to one of the most serious problems that has not been resolved to date and which should be resolved as soon as possible, because so far all changes to the 1 per cent system are incomplete. This was the most serious omission that the Ministry of Sándor Fazekas basically disappeared 660 million forints, which they were supposed to spend on protecting against ragweed. In fact, the offerers had the opportunity to choose as a priority budget appropriation the removal of raggrass if they did not wish to give it to any church. This was done by 177 thousand people, worth 1.1 billion forints. The Ministry simply transferred 660 million of this to someone else, even though it could not have done so. And the minister responsible for this has been in place ever since, in fact, the story is repeated in 2017, since the money finally regrouped was allocated to civil society organisations, and probably a significant part of it was not actually used for de-fouling. However, the Ministry, which is playing with the money of those who offer 1 percent, refuses to publish the data, although in principle civil society organisations are public, especially when public money is used. It's a pretty amazing story that they're able to steal a source that's been set aside to deal with a problem that makes millions of lives miserable. Until this case is resolved, as I mentioned, there is a lack of any modifications to the 1 percent system. Another major deficiency of this bill is that it only concerns the ecclesiastical side of the 1 percent system; this is quite incomprehensible. Once it is introduced that the provision is valid until it is withdrawn, why is it not extended to 1 per cent of civilians? Why is a foundation for saving people or helping disadvantaged people lower than a church in the eyes of the government? Discrimination is incomprehensible and not morally justified. That is why we propose that the existing declarations should be valid for 1 percent of civilians until withdrawal or until further provision. The bill also provides that churches can get to know the personal data of the holders if they do not prohibit it. It also arises why only churches, civil society organisations, do not. On the other hand, there is a strong contrast that virtually all donors here want to hide where the public money is from, for example, in the case of Tao discounts that represent the movement of HUF 100 billion per year. There's no such thing as personal rights, because a company doesn't have any personality rights. All in all, this is a typical fidesz proposal. In principle, it wants to introduce a sensible proposal with a side-sided view so that it is only beneficial for individual groups, so that it is not useful for everyone in general. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-11-02-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible for two minutes of speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-02-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, I wanted to draw attention once again to this problem, because what my fellow Member from KDNP said is not a real argument for which he was trying to give a justification. So just because there are 50 percent more people saying about this in the case of civil society organisations and we're talking about, say, a billion forints higher, I don't think there's enough reason for this to be such a - how should I put it? - one-sided suggestion. So I ask you to consider that this opportunity, which many of us have talked about here - from both LMP and Jobbik - and I myself have mentioned that this should apply not only to churches, but also to civil society organisations. The simplest thing I think is for an authority to give a statement once, and always, in the same way, every year must be true, or valid, should be valid for an authority. There is less administration than every year that needs to be renewed. So this argument is not a good argument, because it is easier to standardize something. In this case, it can be standardised that I give this NGO 1 percent right now, even now, so you don't always have to ask for confirmation from the taxpayer. So this also simplifies administration. In addition to what many arguments have already been made here, it would be worth treating these organisations with one voice. I would ask the authors and the government to consider this opportunity to ensure that this regulation is equally and equally true. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. He also asked for a two-minute speech from the KDNP Group, Mr László Szászfalvi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-02-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, In short, I would like to respond to the suggestion of Attila Mesterházy and to the raise of others in the context of this 1 percent civilian. I think that the question of one percent of the church concerns 31 established churches, and compared with tens of thousands of civil society organisations, this is in itself a huge difference. On the other hand, I think that commitment to churches, not only individually, personally, but perhaps also familyly, is much more stable and has a much longer-term impact on the lives of each family. [[14.30]] With regard to civil society organisations, I can give my own example, my dear fellow Member, I have offered these 1 percent to a large number of civil society organisations, sometimes to other civil society organisations, in recent years. So I think that it is not so committed, and there is a lot more movement in civil society organisations, a much more unstable situation for a civil society organisation, for example, the situation of a foundation can change radically year after year. So I think that, at the moment, this is an important step, a step forward, and then perhaps it will be possible to think about it later, that if the world of civil society organisations is perhaps stabilizing even more, then it might be possible to think about extending this to civil society organisations. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has also applied for a two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-02-123	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to express my thanks because, for the first time in the day, we are debating something, so that they do not respond in a closed manner to something, but that is a valid counter-argument, which I do not agree with, but this is a sign of the development of the debate culture. I would also like to take a personal example, otherwise more of our faction would be able to use such an example. Every year, I am obsessed with supporting the Alfa Alliance with my 1 percent civilian, in order to create as many live births as possible in Hungary, and to include various flask baby programs from the rescue of Hungarian lives. So we could provide counter-examples as to how there is determination towards the civil sphere as well. But if we assume that there is no one, so if I accept the argument of my fellow Member of Szászfalvi, then it is still Article XXI. We are living in the century, and we should already be dealing with the various fine-tunings of e-administration here in front of Parliament. What is the technical obstacle to the fact that, if there is a similar commitment to civil society organisations in the Hungarian people, be it an animal shelter, in my case the Alpha Alliance, or anything else, so what is the technical obstacle that would prevent us from dealing with this matter now, in this bill or amendment proposal? So why run another round later? So what is the counter-argument that says that the 21st century In the century, in light of the current technical conditions and the IT background, couldn't we include up to 10,000 civil society organisations in this circle? I do not see this obstacle anymore, and I would like to resolve this apparent contradiction precisely because it may be apparent, the other scenario is that the government does not reveal its true motivations on this issue. I suppose and I dare hope that's not what this is about. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-02-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-02-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to ask the pro-government representatives not to make a distinction and to put 1 percent of civil society organisations in the same hat as the churches. I think that a society should not treat civil society this way if there is such a possibility, so it is not right to make differences. On the other hand, I cannot agree with my fellow Member of Saxony that there are many civil society organisations, and then one will change one's mind next year. Obviously, one percent offered to a civilian organization is valid until you think it's someone else. So if this goes into the system, and if I want to support the same organization for three years, then I don't have to do it every year, if I think about another civil society organisation in the fourth year, then obviously I'm going to have different rules. So on this basis, it is not an argument that there are many civil society organisations and civil society organisations are changing. So as long as someone's thinking about that civil society organisation, let it be valid. So I think it is wrong to have an opportunity to think of one beneficiary differently than the other, so I also ask the pro-government majority once again to, yes, apply to civil society organisations. By the way, I suspect that maybe the reason they don't want it is because money might be stuck in the budget, so that money doesn't go out. It is not right, it would be necessary for the civilian sphere to be strengthened by the majority of the government. Thank you.
u2017-11-02-126	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the two-minute speaking cycle. I now give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Is the government's current bill... the government? Well, it's an individual congressman's motion. Individual Members' motion, which is not the first time in Parliament today, seeks to favour or create more favourable conditions for the churches regarding the system of 1% personal income tax that can be offered to them. It has already been mentioned that the identity, number and, in the case of their consent, the names and addresses of the individuals who made the offerings have been made at municipal level. In fact, the overlap between the two has already been affected by our lead speaker Attila Mesterházy, but I would like to add that there is an opportunity to do so for several years, even for an indefinite period, on the basis of the presentation. This amendment is in the interest of the churches. I don't have a problem with that. I don't have a problem with that. I have a problem with, say, on the political stage, if we look back for a 20-25 year, then this type of amendment comes from a direction that used the word between the walls of Parliament earlier, decades ago, so that it would be "knee" and "chicks." These two activities are quite contradictory, the one that put them this way, the other that acts in this way, as we see today. I understand and it is quite clear to me that this is an important resource background, because, as mentioned, it is about HUF 6 billion in money, but we also note that it is the three churches, the Catholic, the Reformed and the Evangelical Church, who receive some HUF 3.7 billion, if I remember correctly. My basic problem is this. One thing I have already mentioned: how is it that this type of transformation process is not initiated by the government, but by an individual representative? It's the same thing as the Tao money encryption or the tax incentives for football players in the House's walls today. It is said that the church can use it in connection with religious activity, using the data that comes into its possession. This is okay when it comes to religious activity, but I would like to ask where the guarantee is, because I have not read in this draft law the guarantee that this can only come back in terms of data usage related to the religious activity of the church. In the last year, we have seen many examples, not necessarily in terms of data processing, but in terms of the close relationship with politics, that even the pulpit was a policy made by some. So, in this sense, confidence is at least questionable about the use of data in this regard, I would like to ask: where is the guarantee? I would like to ask those of you who have put this bill on the table with an individual motion to tell me where the guarantee is in this respect. On the other hand, I would like to confirm what has been said by several of my fellow Members that it would be worth strengthening a similar regulatory system for civilians just for the sake of simplicity, but I would also like to draw their attention to the fact that a law that also affects trade unions, from one percent of the ones that can be offered, could be passed on the ground of enforcing the interests of the working people. [[14.40]] In English, I would like to say that I think it is worth overthinking, overthinking only what we are talking about today in the walls of this House regarding this bill. And if I wanted to be interested, and I would like to ask my fellow Member, Zoltán Bóna, about the participation of churches in public education in the ideas leading up to it, I think it would be worth opening up a little bit: let's say, the charitativity part and the surface of this, for example, how the share of disadvantaged children in public education is shown within the interests of ecclesiastical institutions. After all, according to my judgment, the church, in principle or at least to the extent that it is generally considered within the system of public education, must monitor the course of life of disadvantaged children and also play a dominant role in the provision of assistance at least as much as it does in this respect within the framework of public institutions. It would also be worth illuminating this surface of things. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-128	Thank you very much. It is now possible to speak again for two minutes. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-02-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I should like to thank Mr Szászfalvi for his participation in the debate. This is not the first time - only here for the Parliamentary Protocol - we have had a number of debates where he has honoured us before by responding to our comments, and I think that is in any case correct, and I say thank you once again. I would also like to say, as Dániel Z. Karpát has already said, that there is an example in our family that we are committed to supporting civil society organisations for certain reasons, so I think that we are sure of this, there is also an example, and that is why I wanted to mention it. The other thing is that there was a debate here today, about which the Member had missed, which was also about sja, and here the government described the benefits of this very long and detailed, namely: the Secretary of State said that a simpler tax return could no longer be found in Hungary, there is no need for a beer mat, because I think perhaps the Secretary of State mentioned the 22nd of May so that everyone would receive his tax return at 0:00 a.m. and that he would only have to review it at home in the comfortable chair. So in Hungarian, in this sense, this is probably no longer a problem by electronic means, whether it means 31 denominations or tens of thousands of civil society organisations, as software can handle this quite well. The third thing that I think would strengthen the civil society sector is that if it were possible, because often people are weak and forget things - I am talking about those you may have referred to here, that they are not so committed to a civil society organisation, and that they may simply not have one percent on account of forgetfulness - so it would be interesting to have such an opportunity, because this way we could strengthen the civil society sector with this small amendment. And indeed, perhaps this amendment would also remove the criticism or shadow of this initiative that it might merely be some kind of database building or political gain that motivates government actors here. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-130	Thank you very much. I'll ask the congressman... he's already deleted it, so thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-02-131	Thank you very much, Mr President, for a sentence. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you not to give me a summary. [[András Tállai: You spoke to him five times! You can't understand what you're saying.]] There have been a number of raised questions on the agenda that should be discussed once again. [[András Tállai: You can't understand what you're saying!]] I don't want to hear your summary. So instead of the summary, you should be in the debate. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-132	Thank you very much. Mr. Messenger, I would like to inform you that this is where Mr. Zoltán Bóna can make his closing speech alone, and, as much as we regret, Mr. Secretary of State does not have the opportunity to say the closing word, because he must say the closing word. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Bóna, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to close. [[Zoltán Bóna stands up.]] Yes, Mr. Congressman, you have the floor. [[László Szászfalvi to Nándor Gúr to replace the notary: Why don't you listen to the answer?]]
u2017-11-02-133	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly. I wish to join my fellow Member, László Szászfalvi. While I myself am a member of several civil society organisations, I believe that the comparison is indisputable, and is not correct in the case of commitment to churches or commitment to a civil society organisation. If the comparison between civil society organisations and churches has come up, the churches have been discriminated against so far, because civil society organisations could have received the data of those who offered them, and if there was no abuse in that case, then why do we think that this could even arise in the case of churches. With regard to the motion by the Members of the Council and the Government's submission: Mr.Secretary Miklós Soltész, Minister Zoltán Balog, and myself, if not me, but on the part of the two gentlemen mentioned above, the government will be represented in the proposal. The idea of the charitable service of the churches is incomprehensible and incomprehensible to me. And thank you very much for your KDNP support. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-02-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the laws relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation Act and the bill amending certain other laws until closure. The government referral is T/17998. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The reason for drawing up the bill before you is that, from 1 January 2018, the Act on General Administrative Rules adopted by Parliament, which does not cover the tax administration procedure, will enter into force. The new tax administration rules do not include the implementing rules, the implementing procedures to be implemented by the tax authority, T/17782 which has already been submitted to the Honourable Parliament. It is included in the legislative proposal No. The regulation of the Bill on enforcement procedures by the tax authority has been developed in the light of the fact that the powers of the State tax and customs authorities in the field of enforcement will be extended from 2018. The Act on General Administrative Rules, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, designates the State Tax and Customs Authority as a general enforcement body in the public administration. Further innovation is that the State tax and customs authorities will no longer carry out exclusively financial claims in the future, but also administrative decisions which are binding upon the performance of the specific act or specific conduct, tolerance and termination. The objective pursued by this bill is, on the one hand, to ensure that, in the light of the regulation of the Tax Act and the Tax Code, the special procedural rules of each tax type are included in the financial tax law governing that tax type, thus simplifying the application of the law. On the other hand, there was a need to revise the legislative references to the Act on the Rules of Taxation which were repealed and to adapt them to the cited legislative proposals. Thirdly, to ensure consistency and coherence between the draft law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority and other laws containing implementing rules, which will help to bring enforcement matters to an effective conclusion on the basis of a single set of rules. To this end, the bill contains a proposal for amendments to a number of laws governing the procedure covered by the general administrative procedure with a view to repealing the provisions governing the recovery of taxes in those laws. [[14.50]] With the adoption of the bill, coherent legislation can be ensured in line with the new tax procedure rules. The amendment of the National Tax and Customs Office Act creates consistency with the provisions of several laws which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, whereby references to legislation are transferred and certain provisions are repealed on the basis of content deregulation. Dear Parliament, 114 laws are amended according to the bill. I respectfully ask you to accept the bill before us in order to make the legislative changes applicable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-02-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Bóna. You have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains, first and foremost, amendments that are necessary due to the entry into force of the General Administrative Regulation Act on 1 January 2018. The main regulatory issues covered by the amendments are the area of tax administration, personal income tax, general sales tax and changes to the Labour Code and certain areas of gambling management. Dear House, Changes in the area of tax administration are included in the proposal because the General Administrative Rules Act removes tax and customs procedures from its scope. The tax law, the local tax law, the motor vehicle tax law, the amendment of the laws on advertising tax, public health product tax, cultural tax and public utility tax are also used to ensure consistency with the new tax laws. In order to reduce the administrative burden, in the case of public health product tax, the bill provides for the possibility for taxable persons to offer up to 10% of the public health product tax they pay as a contribution to the health conservation programme organised by the public health administration. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a significant turnaround in the area of taxation of citizens in relation to the amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act. As is well known, the tax administration is now preparing a tax return plan for everyone, which, by supplementing, improving or accepting it, individuals can easily and quickly fulfil their tax return obligation. This new service will also be able to take over the role of the employer tax assessment, and the bill therefore initiates the discharge of the tax ruling on the employer. In addition, the staff for whom the tax authority prepares a draft declaration. This will include an individual who is an agricultural farmer or who is liable to pay a general turnover tax. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the employment policy revolution launched by the Fidesz governments in 2010, unemployment is not the problem in Hungary today, but the labour shortage in certain employment areas. Contrary to previous decades, our country is now characterised by a work-based society. The bill before us amends the Code of Work in order to exclude the exposure of pregnant workers to occupational risk, thereby ensuring full compliance with the legal order of the European Union. The bill also provides for consistency with the ILO Convention on the Protection of Workers' Works Representatives. The proposal also contains a clarification of the concept of a disabled worker. As of 1 January 2018, gambling matters shall be considered as an official matter subject to the general administrative procedure. The amendments to the gaming organisation add authorisation and other procedural rules to the Gambling Act without changing its content. Dear House, The Fidesz fraction supports the proposal before us because it contains a number of simplifications, and the amendments contained therein are necessary for the effective implementation of the Act on General Administrative Rules adopted by Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-02-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tállai, State Secretary, mentioned that 114 laws will be amended by the introduction and adoption of this law; 114 laws will have an impact. In English, this means that in fact we can safely say that processes become untraceable, the law-abiding citizen in a sense just blinks. If someone doesn't have a legal qualification or representation, they can fail very easily without it, virtually unable to manage. I think that there is always room for simplification, but I would question many of the types of changes that make the process practically even more complicated. In this bill, if not directly or indirectly, confessions are also formulated. Think back a few decades ago - it doesn't even have to be decades, let's just say, a decade and a half ago - when commitments have been made for our accession to the European Union - for example - that they operate, for example, the network of labour centres, and they commit to do so. This system was, in my personal opinion, the third best network system in Hungary at the time. Obviously, the NAV does not need to be specifically highlighted, given the situation of the NAV, it must also be the strongest network system, or the network system of law enforcement police. This has always been the case, but similarly, labour centres have become such a strong network system. You have undertaken to ensure that these systems are maintained and operated at the time, whereas the situation is that this network system has been disrupted. At this moment, the tentacles can be found in the district offices, through which they try to handle the things of the people in need in such a way and with quality. I believe this to be something - I can say that it is reprehensible, but it is certainly something - that was not constructive in the period of governance of the last eight years, but, unfortunately, destructive in nature. However, with regard to the negotiation of this draft law, in order to address the issue correctly, I must also say that, at last, in the course of nearly eight years, they have reached the point where, for example, reimbursement of travel costs for public workers in the world of work will now be realised in relation to the use of various labour market services. It is also good - but it would not have taken eight years - that, in the event of the recovery of employment support to natural persons, because there are, where appropriate, no interest on late payment will be charged. In fact, I do not think that it is wrong that private employment firms want to act on matters relating to their grey market operation and that they want to whiten it. However, I would also like to say other types of problems, not only systemic destruction problems according to a confession, but also one that could, say, affect a self-employed person. The possibility of seeking employment is excluded in the case of the cessation of self-employed activity. [[15.00]] The scope of individual enterprises could perhaps be characterised by the fact that it is a medium and a group with a low level of advocacy. In this sense, discrimination comes almost automatically due to your political mechanism of operation, because where you can strike and you can't, there can't be any greater protest, then you will do so without any problems. Obviously, it is not good that they are taking another statistical step through this, in practice, that the number of registered unemployed can be statistically reduced. Yes, it can be statistically reduced, but this does not, in fact, mean that, in terms of living situations, these people are at their disposal when they have to pause their individual business activities in a forced manner, to ensure minimum livelihoods. This exercise of statistical influence is virtually comparable to tens of thousands of people leaving the labour supply system, leaving the country, and taking up work outside the border to make a living, then you started pushing the number of unemployed people down. Of course, in a statistical sense, yes, but they did not look at the fact that simply because they had not given these people opportunities under the conditions of the domestic primary labour market, they forced themselves to leave the country, taking work outside the border in order to make a living. But in the same way, the population of those fleeing into public work was practically naturally excluded from the statistics and represented as employed persons. This is the counterpoint to the distortion of employment statistics. But I can also say with a calm spirit that all their interventions over the past nearly eight years have been about really meeting political expectations statistically. For example, the duration of job search grants has been reduced from nine months to three months. Quasi, who could be, were pushed out of supply systems to show statistically that there were fewer unemployed and as if there were more workers. However, if we want to return to the self-employed and return, everyone can see today that there are a lot of self-employed entrepreneurs. It is also because employers wish to employ them only with a business mandate, so employers who employ them obviously want to reduce their labour costs, but put them in a more constrained position or, where appropriate, in a more hopeless situation. But there is one thing that I would like to draw your attention to specifically, my fellow Members. It is not certain that everyone can, in all respects, have been able to process this draft law, since, as Parliamentary Secretary Tállai said, 114 areas of law are affected. I will definitely draw your attention to an amendment. I believe you are aware that the situation with regard to the minimum wage, which is the minimum wage, was certain and assured that it was possible to pay less than the minimum wage for work activity in Hungary. This is how the minimum wage for public employment was developed. You know, on behalf of Marcell Zsiga, after his words, this category is 47,000 forints, which today represents 53-54,000 forints net for the public employees compared to 60 200 forints in 2010. I don't want to add to the fact that a third of his purchasing power was actually taken away from these people for this money. But I want that to be the minimum wage, so that the minimum wage, the minimum wage, could be paid less. That was the case with the public workers. Even then, there was an attempt, even by Minister of State Czomba, to ensure that, in the case of beginners, as an example, less wages could be paid to beginners in disadvantaged areas. But then, apparently, it was a miscarriage due to social confirmations. Now we are faced with the fact that, not only in relation to the minimum wage, what I spoke about earlier, by projecting things into the minimum wage for public employment, but also in terms of the guaranteed minimum wage. So it's possible to deviate from the guaranteed minimum wage, well, obviously not in a positive direction. Otherwise, there can always be a positive shift, so this is not in question, and labour market needs are, in my view, required, but now the amendment of this draft law gives us the opportunity to deviate from this in a negative sense. Who will be affected by this? For whom do you think that you do not want to provide the people with the right professional qualifications with the gross HUF 161 thousand, the net HUF 107 thousand? Basically, I feel that people who live and work in, say, disadvantaged counties and regions are affected by this story. I do not think that this kind of distinction should be made and introduced, not only do I not think I strongly object to it, simply because there are such huge wage differences in Hungary 93,000 square kilometres, which is unacceptable today. When the average wage in Budapest is close to 250 thousand forints, say Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County barely exceeds 130 thousand forints, I think this is not in place. But I would like to add that I do not have a problem with the average in Budapest, but the average in the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg or the average in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county is incredibly low. If you wish to develop this process by means of interventions such as, say, example, in disadvantaged areas, if you have the appropriate professional qualifications to carry out your work, then you do not have to or do not have to pay even the guaranteed minimum wage there, then this cannot be agreed. That is, I would like to point out to you that this thinking, this direction, should be blocked in thought, should not be continued. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing, and this is the permanent consultation forum between the government and the competition sphere, the competition sphere and the government, which concerns the functioning of the VKF. This is a tripartite consultation forum, which sets out views on controversial issues affecting working people, consults, makes proposals, and even creates agreements in specific situations. It can affect, I tell you, a lot of things here, from taxes, contributions to wages, or from the issue of compensation or additional contributions, or even a great deal of business-related issues relating to the establishment, operation and elimination of businesses, and much more. In the last year, it appears that, within the framework of the VKF, you do not seriously believe that the discussions that I have mentioned above, or that the proposals or agreements should be taken into account, should be concluded. I see that, as an example, regulations and draft legislation affecting businesses are not really wanted to be discussed in these forums. But also on matters that supplement wages or beyond, which no longer affect active age, for example, pension or the stage of active age when mothers go to work, they also neglect to take them to the stage of discussions within the framework of the VKF. [[15.10]] So what I'm trying to say is that this is today's situation, which, of course, has been practiced for years within the framework of constant consultation between the competition sphere and the government. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I think this is wrong, and this should be changed, and this change should be confirmed through the draft law. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-140	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, we have a very long proposal, a proposal which amends 141 laws, and there are obviously many positive and forward-looking points to this motion. I'd like to draw attention to a few points of concern. Most of all, the first thing I would like to refer to before you is the points that always make it difficult to support a proposal, so it would be better if the government, though if it submitted a salad law, really tried to include the proposals that are forward-looking and possibly also the support of the opposition, could earn it. Well, that's not what the amendment for toy casinos is, so let's get right to it. The amendment of the Gambling Act has always been an area that provides a basis for much debate. By the way, it is enough to point out that they were not willing to put the cash registers in the casinos either, and after the whole market had been transformed by the government, and the country's slot machines and one-armed robbers were, by the way, very well placed within limits, but the other half of the story was that some circles, including Andy Vajna, had the opportunities to run casinos or gambling machines. And what does God give? As long as the use of cash registers has become mandatory with a hairdresser or a taxi or other small and micro-enterprises, we feel that this is not entirely justified in the case of casinos, at least according to the government. Of course it would be. Where else could there be large amounts? Where else could the charge or appearance of money laundering or other legalisation of income come up than in casinos? This is not a Hungarian invention, it is the case in many places in the world, so the minimum is that cash registers should have been brought into casinos. Moreover, the biggest problem would not have been solved because it would obviously be possible to circumvent regulation in a number of ways, but at least we could say that casinos are playing on equal tracks, or at least as far as formal legislation is concerned. Then, of course, slot machines weren't connected to the NAV, as we say in the case of vending machines, and it could be classified in different locations where this became mandatory. It also seems that slot machines do not belong in this circle. We've heard a lot of reports about how much money you can get out of these things without being announced to the NAV, or how - and this is another common abuse option - you can manipulate machines so that they don't otherwise share winnings in the same proportion as they would say they would do on paper. In this salad law, we can also read as an important new rule that the Gambling Authority may authorise - who else, at the request of the organisers authorised to operate the casino - up to five times per calendar year for a maximum of 30 days - the organisation of card games approved in the game plan of the casino on another site, which means virtually an outsourcing, no, not for a long time, only for five months, five times thirty days. We think that this is almost half of the year, so it gives casino owners a very broad framework. And who could own a casino, right? We have also said this many times: individuals who are privileged by the government, who receive concessions, and they seem to be able to organize these card games outside the casinos now. I suppose you have to think about poker here, for example, but I'm sure those of you who are more experienced in this world could say a few more card games they play in casinos and, by the way, it's a very good business to organize for outside locations. This is actually another step, which may be good for someone, but less for taxpayers and Hungarian citizens, and not necessarily even for those who have a gambling problem. Although they seem to benefit from this, but when they fail, say, the kitchen money at home, their families or their children may not think so, how good it is that this regulation could have been made. I would like to draw attention to a less problematic point, but a few opinions have come back from the profession. This is nothing more than the taxation of primary producers, which the NAV will carry out, preparing a draft tax return. I am also glad that our fellow Member Győrffy arrived, because we saw in the press that, on the proposal of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy - a communication on this issue was published on 31 October - the NAV will prepare its tax returns for the first producers next year. By the way, if I understand it correctly, they're talking about the statement as a decided fact. First, let's wait for the bill to be passed. Although I understand that the majority of the government in Parliament is close to two thirds, and its adoption is probably guaranteed, but if I interpret the communication correctly, this has already appeared as if it had been adopted. In this connection, it has been suggested that this may sound like a good story, but if the NAV does the tax returns, then NAV obviously has to have all the data for these tax returns, because without it it it cannot produce an accurate tax return. In the case of farmers, as I understand it, a determining part of the income may not run through the NAV. When he goes to the market and sells something, although against receipt, it's not certain he'll get into the NAV. So there's a fear on the part of the host society that it's going to involve sending everything to the NAV, all the receipts that you didn't have before, and the NAV is a little bit like when the cat gets dragged out of bed by someone, that I'm gonna pet you, if you don't want, he's gonna make the tax return this way. It will either be possible to ignore it or to submit data on all economic activities in the first place, so there is fear in this. Obviously, Mr Secretary of State, if you note this and can reassure farmers exactly how this is going to happen, then there may be a reasonable answer to this, but in addition to the fact that this sounds good, I wanted to point out that there are some reservations on the part of the farming community in this direction. So I will not list the positive points of the proposal here, because these have already been said, and most obviously on the part of the pro-government representatives. We would also like to wait for the amendments to be made, since proposals that amend such a salad proposal can be properly watered and rather unpleasant things can be slipped in. But, as I have said, this gambling regulation alone is already giving us a serious dilemma: if all other points could be supported, then with the extension of the possibilities of casinos, whether this can be supported in a package, this will obviously be decided by our group, and, as I said, we are looking forward to the amendments. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have a two-minute speech, from the MSZP Group, Mr Zoltán Gőgös asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-02-143	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to connect to Gábor Staudt in relation to the taxation of primary producers. I would also be interested if Mr. Secretary of State would share with us how this question is technically... [[András Tállai: Did you ask for a tax council?]] We're not asking for tax advice, Mr. Secretary, but we've heard it, too, and I think you, and that's not the kind of genre that I think we should be talking about here directly. What I'm curious about is how the tax return of the 150,000 original producers at NAV will be completed, who have a turnover below HUF 600,000 and who are not obliged to keep a certificate. [[15.20]] That's all I care about. That's all I care about. Of course, it's exciting how the others will have it, but at least there's some information at the NAV. Because if it involves much, much more administration, the least we can do is not obligate anyone to do so. And the other thing is why we need to put an extra administrative burden on someone even if he doesn't want to. That's all we care about. We don't ask for tax councils, Mr. Secretary. We're used to solving this kind of problem. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-144	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have proper speeches. I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-02-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, too, and I hope that we will find an answer to the part of this salad law that deals with the gambling law, and to the change which says that the Gambling Supervisory Authority may authorise, at the request of the organizer authorised to operate the casino, the organisation of certain card games on another venue, approved in the gambling room of the casino, not more than five times per calendar year, sometimes for a maximum period of 30 days. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. First of all, I'd like to know, Mr. Secretary, where this idea came from. How did you suddenly think of that? Who's the one who threw this idea in? The only reason I'm asking is because here it's a request from the organizer authorized to run the casino. There are three in the country today: Andy Vajna, István Garancsi and Gábor Sima. [[János Pócs: And Simicska!]] All three oligarchs near Fidesz can be called. I wonder how that idea even came up. Did you talk to these people? Or did they tell you to pass this law because it's better for us? Or what happened? Why is this good for the country? I believe that laws must be made in order to be good for the country. Why is this good for the country? It is only interesting because this idea is completely contrary to your communication about gambling, as you have always said in changing the gambling law that you need to protect gambling sufferers, narrow down the circle where they can play, so how good it is to bring this game into the casinos, and then, contrary to this communication, you are still putting this game back in place, and you can do it in different locations for up to five months, Andy Vajna, Gábor Sima and István Garancsi. What's the logic? That's what I want to know. I believe that in the Hungarian Parliament laws should be made that are good laws for the country, which are good laws for the population, which make life better for all of us. What is this aspect in which you can justify it? This would be interesting because the question arises as to how this game will be organised and conducted in these outside locations. My question is, what are the rules for this? Do you need to register? 'Cause if someone goes into a casino today, they're gonna register it right on the spot. This is a very important question. Or will this registration not be available at the outside locations? The other important issue is how they will account for revenue and how they will pay taxes after playing in these outside locations. That's another important question, because as we know, at the hairdresser, yes, at the taxi, yes, at the convenience store, we need a cash register. We need a cash register everywhere. Where don't you need it? At the casino. There is so little money in the casino, and it is impossible even to imagine money laundering within a casino, that there is no cash register, no need to track the money flowing through the casino. But if you don't have to use a cash register in a casino, you won't have to use a cash register on the outside of the casino? Won't there be any follow-up to the income you'll have to pay taxes on? Again, I say that this is a very, very important question. I would like you to answer these questions, Mr Secretary of State. Of course, of course we are aware that we will have answers in the closing words so that we can not have a debate on this issue, but I will thank you even if the Secretary of State responds, especially if I think that the Secretary of State might be particularly interested in this question, because we are not only talking about the State Secretary of Fidesz in the person of András Tállai, but also about the leader of the NAV, and as a NAV leader, I think the main aspect is that they can obtain as much tax revenues as possible, and that the tax revenues and contributions that are going to benefit the state as much as possible. Therefore, it cannot be for the indifferent secretary of state, not as secretary of state, but as heads of NAV, that, where appropriate, the organisers who, even if I know that it is difficult for them to act as secretary of state because we are talking about Viktor Orbán's narrow environment, we are talking about Viktor Orbán's oligarch friends, who have casino concession rights, but it would nevertheless be one of the main tasks of a NAV leader to provide the revenues that he needs to collect for public finances. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-02-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-11-02-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are constantly trying to ensure that the national, if not the State Secretary, the national, if the State Secretary, will answer the questions asked on the way. There have now been a lot of questions, from ancient farmers to Andy Vajna, to casinos and much more. I would help you give me three answers, but with great respect, I would ask Mr Secretary of State not to answer me at the end, because I would like to talk to you about this matter on the way, and I would like to discuss these matters. One: why, Mr State Secretary, is it that individual entrepreneurial activity is excluded from the use of job-seeking? Secondly, why would they want to amend the provisions in such a way that the payment of earnings could be made compared to the previous minimum wage, and now that the guaranteed minimum wage can be deviated from it in a negative way? Why? What's the reason, the reason? What's behind all this? Because this affects a lot of people, it affects people in Hungary in a million-dollar scale, because in the low income range, there are a tremendous number of people. The third: Gábor Staudt has already pushed through Andy Vajna's person that Andy Vajna has actually been exempted from the obligations of fair taxation. I would like to say that if my knowledge does not deceive me, then there is no need to give a block in casinos, and besides giving the block, there is no need to pay the VAT that the deposit of the cash registers on the part of the NAV does not happen, and the NAV does. How's that? Why is that, Mr. Secretary? Haven't you thought about it? I would like you to take part in the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[András Tállai: Yes.]] I wish. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Not many speakers have affected the changes in the extensive bill, obviously because it is basically adopted. The bill, together with its 114 laws, contains basically technical amendments. On the one hand, the change in the rules of enforcement and, on the other hand, the change in the law on the rules of taxation must lead to a change in the rules in all other laws. [[15.30]] I think that what has come up here is a political issue. The question of the prehistoric producer is entirely legitimate. I think that there is no change in this bill that would result in additional administration for any primary producer. Consider, though, that a lot of people do their first - generation activities with other incomes along with it. In the amendment, while the primary producer's tax return obligation was February, it will now be transferred to 20 May when there is a normal personal income tax return obligation and entered into the NAV system. This means that a person who derives income from his prehistoric activities will receive a draft declaration, he will have to check it and approve it with an Enter button. However, those who do not have an income of less than 600 thousand do nothing, obviously will not receive any draft tax returns from the tax authorities, because the subjective legislation has not changed. Therefore, from this point on, the tax authority will only send the draft declaration in which it has income and in which case it will have to pay a tax. So let's not scare the farmers here, there is no extra bureaucracy, this is a significantly more favourable change for those farmers who, by the way, have income either from the prima facie activity or from other income, and do the two activities together. The other question I do not really understand, because in the case of the Gambling Act, what is happening is that a ministerial decree will be fully brought to a legal level, which does not contain new elements. So the reason for installing the legal level is that the Ákr. the procedural provision cannot be regulated at ministerial level. This Ministerial Regulation is set out in Annex 32/2005. PM regulation, this will be transferred to the Gambling Act in its entirety for these reasons. So this law does not give new elements, new opportunities to any gambling organizer. That's the answer to that. The opening of the cash register debate here... - obviously the purpose of this bill is not essentially to judge or regulate whether a cash register is necessary in the field of gambling or not. I think that if there is a reregulation here, a much stricter electronic system should be developed in the future for the online cash register system. So this issue is not on the agenda in this sense, and this is obviously not included in the bill. Overall, the bill, I think, will allow both the implementing rules and the rules on the new tax regime to enter into force on 1 January 2018 and be applied by the tax authority. That is why it is important that the Parliament accepts this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-02-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Next up is the 1990 XCIII on levies. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The presentation submitted by our Fidesz fellow Members Balázs Győrffy and István Jakab T/18010. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to the author of the solar point, Mr Balázs Győrffy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-151	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In 2016, the levy law was amended so that farmers would not have to pay a transfer fee on land if they were able to undertake, within five years, to use it for agricultural production for at least five years and did not dispose of it. The current legislation did not consider this derogation to be a derogation if the use and exploitation of agricultural land was taken into account by the Ptk. he has been transferred to the benefit of a close relative in accordance with the first subparagraph; provided that he uses the land as a farmer, a farmer or a forest-farmer, and assumes the conditions imposed for the remainder of the five-year period, instead of the acquireer. The purpose of the proposal amending the levy law is to comply with the legislation of the Land Traffic Act and to alleviate the strict conditions for the exemption from the levy on land acquisition. It is proposed that, in addition to a close relative, the land owner may transfer land to a farmer's farm organization owned by at least 25 percent of the land without any obligation to pay a transfer fee. In order to prevent this from being played out, you must declare that you undertake not to reduce your share of your ownership in the farming cooperative to less than 25 per cent. If you break that, you should pay him twice the fees that he would otherwise have to pay. The amendment should also apply in cases in which the cultivation obligation has not passed, so that it allows it to pass to its company, or although it has passed, but the State tax authority has not yet established a final obligation to pay an additional levy; that is, it has allowed it to pass, but has not yet received the decision on the double levy. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can solve a lack of coherence between two legislations here by giving farmers, landowners, a major step forward, and by giving up some of the tax revenues, the state creates clear and clear relations on the land market. That is why I ask you with great respect to support our proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to speak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-02-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The government's main objective is to improve the farming conditions of farmers who farm land in Hungary. The proposal also serves this purpose when extending the free-of-charge cases of the acquisition of agricultural land by farmers by not qualifying as a breach of the obligation to operate the land if the application of the levy law would not impose a levy on the farmer, if he allowed the use of the land to the benefit of a farmer organisation owned by at least 25 per cent of the five-year cultivation obligation. The extension of the tax exemption under the bill, in addition to ensuring consistency with the rules of the Land Traffic Act already referred to by the author, also facilitates the joint management of farmers. It promotes the creation of a larger economic unit from family farms, even through the cooperation of more than one farmer. The result is greater economic performance and more profitable operation as a result of economies of scale, overall the medium-sized development of a small production unit that is ready and capable of developing. The growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and the strengthening of businesses are of great importance to the economy. A larger enterprise can be more effective in representing producer interests vis-à-vis traders, a more stable partner for credit institutions. Ultimately, this leads to an improvement in the competitive position of domestic landowners and users, which coincides with government ideas and aspirations. The Government therefore agrees with the reduction of the conditions for tax-free land grabbing in accordance with the bill. That is why we ask the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
u2017-11-02-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr János Pócs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the presentation, we heard the benefits of the proposal from President Balázs Győrffy, Secretary of State. The case of the tax exemption to date will be extended, so that the self-owned entity can also transfer one land without the obligation to pay a levy. Dear House, A large number of farmers have long been waiting for this discount. In this spirit, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to the Fidesz fraction to support this proposal. Thank you.
u2017-11-02-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the Parliament. Here you go. [[15.40]]
u2017-11-02-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The payment of the levy on the acquisition of land from 2016 is virtually free of charge. The future is about, according to the current draft law, that the levy, if the owner of the farmland is to transfer at least 25 percent of its use to the farm cooperative owned by it, should likewise be free of charge. There are different conditions - I would not go deeply into this - that are extended for a period of five years from non-rejectibility, that the right of property value cannot be established, can only be used for agricultural purposes and, in the case of the producer organisation, the share cannot be reduced to less than 25 per cent in five years. I understand these things, and I have no problem with them; I would really like to express our concerns with a question; here my fellow Member, as a lead speaker, said that the story represents the interests of many, and I would put it this way: whose interests does this story represent? Who? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-158	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We also have a minimum dilemma as to who exactly benefit from this proposal, how small entrepreneurs or small farmers benefit from this proposal and how much more so for medium-sized or even larger farmers. I would ask whether the adoption of the land law in 2013 was possible to know that there was such a need and why it was not possible at the time to include it if it existed. I think it's a legitimate question, considering that if it still existed, then why didn't you miss out that if you didn't stand up, then since they realized you should. And with a holding of over 25 percent - so in the case of a company, there can be three owners who can make use of this proposal - I can't see what justified this either. And we didn't hear a more detailed explanation as to why it wasn't 30 or 40 or 50, so what the background study was or what the background consideration was, which meant it had to be set to 25 percent. Also, the rules on the payment of levies and, by the way, the rules on primary producers have been amended since 2013, and it has not even occurred that this rule should be introduced. I suppose that the Chamber elections have nothing to do with the fact that we see such excellent proposals here. Also, how excellent they are, if we are convinced and we can see in more detail about the underlying studies, underlying studies or perhaps specific needs, then we will be able to make a final decision. Thus, there are still some vague points in this circle that make it really difficult to guess who exactly will benefit from this proposal. We would like to avoid what you do so often to refer to, say, small and medium-sized farmers, and then rather to the medium, large, but rather to the large farmers or the oligarchs. So we can be convinced here in the debate, we look forward to further arguments, and obviously even proposals for amendments can come to this, so in this case, as in the previous proposal, we will be bound to the proposals for amendment, the arguments that have been put forward, whether we can ultimately support this proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, representing the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that we are now faced with three years of debt, even more than three years of debt, four years of debt. Well, whether it's okay or not, that's gonna come out, of course. I would like to say to my fellow Member Pócs that this is not expected by the masses of farmers, because this will not apply to them. Thus, the vast majority of farmers fall within the circle of those who are predestined for their own use as farmers or in the form of a private contractor or an original farmer. So they're not affected. Those who are affected are two very, very different circles, and the problem is actually for us with one of them. The first round, for which this is indeed a useful proposal, is the family farms that operate in the form of a producer organisation, i.e. kft in Hungarian. they are either a partnership or other form of partnership and are essentially owned by the family members. There, I think this story works. There is obviously a turnover limit, which, if this proposal were to be included, would obviously need to be looked at as far as SMEs are concerned. It is true that we also classify the significantly larger companies in the SME category because of the general SME boundaries. There, however, I think that it should be consistent, and that the logic of the land law should not only extend to the owner, but also to the immediate relatives, so if there is land ownership within a family, but the owner, let's say, has a principal, but also a direct relative, then he does not have to pay a fee. I think that's a logical consideration. And by the way, the land law is like that. The 25 percent - I would say to Gábor Staudt - is justified by the fact that the company logic itself says that the person who owns at least 25 percent of the property has influence. By the way, it could be more than that, but I think general company law says 25 percent, it's already a controlling property. What we have a problem with - and the little devil is bound to be in our mind in relation to tomorrow's chamber election, although I think there will be no choice now, except in the counties where you can not choose a list now, I have now deliberately said that "choose" but more, because there is indeed a choice; where there is a list and there is a vote. Why there's only one list is complicated. I know that very few are willing to face up to the current power, for understandable reasons, because those who do so will not be able to take credit in this country. [[János Pócs' intervention.]] But it's clear that there will be at least nine locations where there are real choices. I...
u2017-11-02-162	I'm sorry, Congressman, but that's not what this law is about.
u2017-11-02-163	Yeah, that's what it is. So what we're talking about is...
u2017-11-02-164	There's no way it's about the bar election tomorrow. And if you're going to keep this subject going, I'm going to have to take it off the table.
u2017-11-02-165	I was just trying to figure out who's really good at this. And now I am forced to name the story again, which was also named in the newspapers: Lőrinc Mészáros wins HUF 80 million on this bill. Because he'll be able to rent his own land to his own businesses without paying a fee. And it's not just one of those. There are not many, I might add, but the question is whose benefit this proposal has now been put forward. And that's why I put it together, because obviously it's possible to influence tomorrow's vote. So what I would suggest, fellow Members, is that, if we want to eliminate such a problem of coherence, so to say, between the two types of legislation, then let us draw a line here, too, as the government has drawn a limit on the amount of aid claimed, because, for example, there it says that there are no basic subsidies over 1200 hectares, but only additional subsidies. Then there could also be an amendment so that there should not be a tax exemption above a certain turnover limit, because businesses with a turnover of between 5 and 10 billion and above may not need to be helped with such a tax exemption, because there is indeed a narrow circle of companies that can live with it, and it is not certain that they need it. But SMEs are indeed better off with such a bill, and there is no coherence between the land law and the tax law. So I would definitely consider them worthy of consideration. Then, in the end, we will decide how we will vote on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-02-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Nándor Gúr as notary of the Parliament. I'll wait for him to get to his place and he can put the microphone on. There you go. You have the floor. [[15.50]]
u2017-11-02-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I did not ask for a reason what I said in the thoughts of the first comment about who it favored. I am sorry that my fellow Member does not answer this question in the pro-government benches there, but I have to get the answer from my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös, i.e. those who have been beneficiaries of all the processes. I am not going to go off the subject, Mr President, but I would just like to say that we just need to see what the wealth growth of the last year looks like, that Mészáros is gaining a HUF 100 billion fortune, and Andy Vajna is earning 16 billion, István Garancsi is earning 14 billion. So, these processes are not random, they show that they create a legal environment, they make specific legislative changes that are personalized, personalized, which are in the interest of some people, as Zoltán Gőgös said, that Lőrinc Mészáros is benefiting from this kind of legislation at HUF 88 million, which you are currently giving birth to. The point in the story is, you can see from this, for seven years, and for almost eight years, you will only give yourself, where appropriate, the benefits of the circle of friends around you, the oligarchs, and it is of no interest to you to take positive measures affecting the people who suffer every day. Well, that's what needs to be changed. That's the policy that needs to be turned away in 2018. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-168	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-169	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Let me tell you what the basic motivation is, which is why these thoughts have been formulated in our minds at all. I think it is fortunate that the Hungarian countryside has reached there, and a significant part of the Hungarian agricultural enterprises have come to the point that they may be thinking about serious investments, and here it is a very logical and good decision to choose a solution where, let's say, a serious loan does not put the family's entire assets at risk, so let's say, even if it creates a single person Kft. in order to keep a financial security behind the family, it does not risk its whole existence, but does so by changing the form of a business. In this way we thought that this was entirely logical, and, by the way, the land law - let me argue with my fellow Member Staudt - also provides that this does not constitute a transfer, and we are simply creating coherence between the tax law and the land law. So let me tell you, when the land law was created, we took this into account, and we simply didn't sew the tax bill, and this is being replaced. I don't think there's any ulterior motive behind this. With regard to the 25 percent, my honourable fellow Member has given his answer, thank you very much. Congressman, you fear and worry small businesses on one side, and on the other hand you are the mouthpieces of MOS, which represents big businesses, because it is not my fellow Hungarian Zoltán, who announced the MOS Propaganda in the Parliament's microphone on Tuesday, so that is an interesting point in itself for you. Let me give my proud fellow Member a short math lesson, and I would also ask you to pay attention to Mr Gur, because I think we have some catching up to do here. A person can own a maximum of 300 hectares, according to my current knowledge, and if we count an average land price, and if he does not use that 300 hectares himself, he will hand it over to a company that does not have anything to do with, so he will have to pay a levy, it can mean about HUF 9-10 million if a person hands over 300 hectares to any other company that he would use or own, with a 2-percent levy. Please, I don't know how 88 million forints work, it's simply a mathematical absurdity. Obviously, it sounds good, and anyone who doesn't count on it can even take this blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. So, fellow Members, I think that we should talk about what this amendment is really about, that some businesses have reached the point where they want to develop, where appropriate, to borrow, and do not want to risk the entire family fortune in this matter, and that they can do so without, by the way, having to pay the tax. I think it's a reasonable solution. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a liability to the company's turnover, because it is not the company that receives the tax exemption, but the individual who owns the land, so it is quite simply not possible to bring the story together. I wouldn't give a damn about the bar elections. I think it means something in itself that no organization has supported the MOS in the Chamber elections, and it means something that in 9 counties they could only make candidates, and it means something that there is a county where they were able to make a candidate by committing a counterfeiting of documents, most likely. So I think that it will not be for us to report it, but for the investigating authority; but Mr President looked at me, and I am aware that it is not for the subject, but I think it was appropriate for me to answer that. My fellow Members, I ask you to truly see the real intention behind this, and we welcome all the positive amendments that do not affect the original aim, which bring this goal closer to businesses, farmers in the Hungarian countryside. So I ask you to support this proposal, and I believe that it is worthy of it. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Next up is the 2010 LXXV on simplified employment. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The presentation submitted by our Fidesz fellow Members Balázs Győrffy and István Jakab T/18009. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. First, I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-02-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In August, nearly 305 thousand people created simplified employment, some 235 thousand of them did occasional work, 60,000 agricultural seasonal work, over 7300 tourism seasonal work and 2.5 thousand film industry extras. On average, 7.5 days have been worked during the month in simplified employment. These, I think, are significant figures, but the lack of the labour force required is also a strong driver of seasonal labour costs. While in 2014 the average daily wage of agricultural seasonal workers was no more than HUF 5000-5500, by now, under HUF 8000, it is not really possible to find workers for hard agricultural seasonal work. Under the current legislation, natural persons do not have to submit personal income tax returns on income from simplified employment unless, in addition to a certain formula, the fee received in simplified employment exceeds HUF 5870. On this basis, it was the case that a significant proportion of the agricultural seasonal workers were subject to tax returns and taxes, which they were subsequently informed of in response to a request from the NAV. This may further reduce the incentives for these employees to work, which puts farmers who are currently experiencing a very serious shortage of labour into a more difficult situation. We tabled an amendment to avoid this with my fellow Member, Mr István Jakab. Compared to the current legislation, the amendment will increase the tax-free daily income from simplified employment from the current amount of HUF 5870 to HUF 7631 this year - as we propose - and next year to HUF 8255, and in line with the increase in the minimum wage. The above rule can therefore also be applied to income acquired this year in the current tax return in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that we try to work together to address the sector's difficulties in terms of labour shortages, and I would therefore respectfully ask this House to support this initiative. Thank you, Mr. President. [[16.00]]
u2017-11-02-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[András Tállai nodds.]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As is well known, simplified employment is a popular form of flexible employment. The agricultural seasonal work allows farmers to meet their increased live work needs flexibly and quickly in the case of seasonal work. The benefit of this form of employment is best ensured by a favourable public burden payment and a much easier administration. The legal institution of the so-called exempt envelope represents a significant tax and administrative relief. According to that legal institution, the natural person does not have to establish income and submit a declaration of income from that employment if the income from that legal relationship does not exceed the sum of the calendar days of simplified employment multiplied by the minimum wage in force on the first day of the tax year or the minimum wage guaranteed as a daily wage. The aim of the bill is therefore to further increase this tax and tax administration facilitation and, therefore, proposes to increase the exempted amount in order to ensure that the seasonally high labour needs of agricultural seasonal work can be met as flexibly as possible. Accordingly, the proposal significantly increases the exempt amount of employment in the context of simplified employment, which will rise from the current HUF 5870 to HUF 8255, as has already been said by the rapporteur. The increase in the amount of the exemption will greatly facilitate compliance with the obligation to pay a public burden under the law, as it will significantly reduce the administration related to tax returns and payment of the tax. In order to ensure that this does not apply only from 1 January 2018, the proposal will allow an increase in the envelope for income already acquired in 2017. Dear Parliament, The government supports the proposal, and we respectfully ask the Parliament to do so. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr János Pócs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-175	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would like to thank my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy and Vice-President István Jakab for presenting this bill, which makes it easier for farmers who wish to employ agricultural seasonal workers. As has already been said by the Secretary of State, with this amendment, the daily labour fee of around HUF 8,000 in seasonal work falls into the tax-free category. I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members to put aside their comments on why we are not giving them more benefits sooner or why. Obviously, it is not the measure that causes the greatest loss of revenue for public finances, but, yes, it was necessary to include such a benefit within the budget, which I consider to be a significant relief for all farmers. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the initiative, which is what I ask of this House. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-02-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As asked by my fellow Member, Mr Pócs, lead speaker, I will not say why not sooner, I will not say what he asked me not to say, I will not. What I do, however, is that I would like to point out that further reflections should be extended in another direction. Simply because, when we look at the issue of simplified employment, we also see the differences that are generally taken into account in terms of remuneration for people working in the primary labour market or other other measures. We know, according to the Labour Code in force from January 2012, that the amount of night allowances has been reduced from 50 per cent to 30 per cent, and that, in the context of simplified employment, when it comes to this type of work, it is not a 30 per cent, but a 15 per cent night allowance that is due to those concerned. After eight hours, i.e. after eight hours of work, the 50 percent bonus is paid to the person concerned, unless this story is accompanied by several days' notice. This exception may be worth reconsidering or reaching a rate of 50 per cent on Sunday's allowance or in so far as it is in the framework of simplified employment where the agreement was not linked to work on Sunday's work. There's a hundred percent bonus on paid holidays. These are just examples. I mentioned these only because thinking should not only be extended in terms of daily wages, but also in terms of the multitude of examples mentioned above and not mentioned. We also know how and how the story looks in terms of public burdens, and in the case of occasional work, it is a per thousand per day public burden that has to be paid. This was the case with the rate of HUF 5870, and if I read it correctly, it will be the same with the rate of HUF 8255. So this is not an increase in the level of the public burden attached to the occasional job. I don't want it to grow, that's not what it's all about. I'm just stating that this situation, in terms of seasonal work, which concerns agriculture, has been a more favourable decision in the past, which means 500 forints/day. Which is a bit of a problem, and I'd like to ask you that, I may have missed it. I'd like to ask you, there are two types of resolution. One is related to work activities that do not require professional qualifications, where the tax-free income band, the daily income band was 5870 HUF, and the other is where skilled work is carried out. If I remember correctly, it was nearly 8 thousand, 7.5 thousand, I think 7410 forints, which meant practically tax-free daily income. The total amount of HUF 8255 is true in line with the unskilled and skilled work activity, or did it fit only with the person with the unskilled work activity, who had the rate of HUF 5870? If, and only if, I think that a step should be taken to ensure that, in the case of skilled work, where this income limit was 7410 forints earlier, the tax-free daily income limit should be exceeded, as there will be a narrowing gap between 7410 and 8255 forints, and only 845 forints will remain between 7410 and 8255 forints. This obviously does not represent a sufficient motivational background, nor does it bring about a meaningful change for the employer and the employee, which I believe would be necessary. People are not considered socially insured; of course, it should be added that they are insured in terms of pension or accident health care, as well as in terms of job search, rather than in the context of today's draft law, the framework of individual businesses who are being pushed out of or want to be pushed out of job search support. Today's legislative environment for short-term work and employment means that if it covers a maximum period of 120 days per year, of course, if it is between the same parties. [[16.10]] So, in principle, based on the conclusion of contracts with different employers within the framework of simplified employment, it can exceed 120 days. In the case of casual work, the situation is that a contract cannot be concluded for more than five consecutive days, and it can reach a maximum of 15 days in a given month. The condition is so much more restrictive than casual work that it is not 120 days a year, but only 90 days a year, once again on the basis of a contract with the same party. It can be said that both the employee and the employer have an interest in achieving a form of employment within the framework of simplified employment in certain situations, and it is not random that the average employment period of almost eight days has appeared in the framework of simplified employment in the previous year. Obviously, in the short term, I say: in the short term, it is also in the interests of the employee to participate in simplified employment, since in this sense there is more money in the pocket. It is in the employer's absolute interest to avoid or replace employment within the framework of employment and reduce labour costs within the framework of simplified employment. Now, in terms of tax-free daily income, it would be good to see clearly, once again, that the HUF 8255, instead of HUF 5870, sits only in this respect, i.e. the previous tax-free daily income of HUF 7410 increases in the same sense, because I do not see this, and I cannot find this within the framework of the presentation. Obviously, this measure is also basically linked to agricultural seasonal work, which is intended to satisfy the labour demand there, in particular, so it is no coincidence that this legislative amendment will be put into the walls of Parliament. However, as far as the future is concerned, it would also be worthwhile to look at the part of the process of, say, the increase in the number of people in simplified employment between the ties of the farmer and economic organisations and the decrease in the framework of the self-employed. I don't know, I don't even know the answer to that, but it would also be worth a little research to ensure that the amending measures for the next period can be taken in a good way. This proposal to amend the law is nothing more than what the Secretary of State, I hope, will say and confirm, on the one hand, that there should be a positive burden on the public and, on the other hand, that he should, in some sense, exempt me from the kind of constraints which I do not speak very well. Create a situation in which you can help the availability of workers combined with real labour needs. In this regard, I personally consider the intention to change within the framework of the draft law to be good, but once again, in my last sentence, I repeat that the shift in relation to the daily tax-free income limit values for unskilled and qualified persons, whether in both cases there is, or only for the unskilled, because that is all I read out of the draft law. Mr. President, thank you.
u2017-11-02-178	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-179	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief. Of course, we support the proposal, and it should not come up as a question. We trust him, although it has been said here several times that this has nothing to do with the election of the Chamber, that, if it is not, we are glad that this has now come before the Parliament, but the point is that this is one, and although our fellow Member Pócs said that we should not have said that before, well, thank you very much, let us make this remark from the opposition side, that earlier, when the government talked about raising wages, and a year ago, when they agreed to raise wages with employers, this did not come up, and the wages of seasonal workers were somehow missed. I think that this HUF 8,000, which is now being raised by the Parliament, is likely to be adopted, this is a limit amount that will ensure that they will be announced for such a wage, and that most of the people will be paid if not the whole - we trust that as much as possible - will be able to be legally obtained, and this is, of course, not only a more positive and transparent picture for the state, but also for the given seasonal worker, both from the point of view of the pension and in all other respects, a much more transparent and fairer treatment by the state and by the employer. So we are in favour of this proposal, and we hope that this increase will be discussed in the near future. Thank you.
u2017-11-02-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Balázs Győrffy stands up.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-02-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Thank you for the fundamentally positive manifestations. I think it is always a pleasure that, if we are able to reach a professional consensus, this is sometimes not always decided on the basis of rational arguments in politics. I'm glad everyone even discovered the positive content. It is obvious that this is possible to dispute, where appropriate, or, where appropriate, to formulate further deepenings. For my part, I am open to all proposals that have achieved this objective, so either with regard to the amendments or at the end of the final vote, I am happy to receive all opposition and obviously pro-government proposals and support at the end. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-02-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament, has applied for a post-meeting speech from the MSZP Group. I'll wait for the congressman as a notary to take his place and put the microphone on. How much longer? He submitted his application for the post-meeting address with a title. Congressman, notary, you have the floor.
u2017-11-02-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the next time, how much longer? Other opposition parties, on the opposition side, have also expressed their post-scheduled views and motions in the same way. I'd like to divide the question into two parts for the....for the time being. One is what coincides with news in recent days, i.e. how and how some people are enriched within the framework of Hungary. Personally, I have no problem with the fact that a lot of honest, talent-based, hardworking people in this country are getting rich. I have a bigger problem with not being talented, not diligence, not the business sense that goes into the background, and because of that, we can see that there is a degree of wealth growth for some, which is nonsense, unacceptable, inability. Here today, among the walls of Parliament, there has been a lot of talk about Mészáros, Andy Vajna, Garanchi, so they are a good symbol of this situation, since only three of them's wealth growth in one year exceeds 120 billion forints; 120 billion forints, 120 000 million forints. [[16.20]] I do not want to look particularly here, I just want to say that it is not difficult to get rich if, in the year that this wealth increase occurs, for example, in the case of Mészáros, it exceeds HUF 240 000 million in funding through public procurement. It is not difficult to grow if the range of subsidies exceeds HUF 17 000 million. But is that okay? Is that how it's supposed to work? It is not difficult to grow even if decent tax conditions do not have to be met. We said many people here today, there is no need to give a block in the casino walls, no need to pay VAT, no need to connect a cash register to the NAV. So, it's not hard to get rich. One word for it: these money, I believe, is the money stolen by Fidesz. These funds should be used practically for the people of Hungary, for the common good. Education, health, raising of low salaries or raising of low pensions, because there are huge differences in this regard today. And so I don't just deal with this issue, so I'm gonna take another case out on this one. Super-hospitals, as I mentioned in health care, are being brought to life by super-hospitals, and in the meantime, we see that the bases of pediatric training are being removed. What does a super hospital today mean as an example in Miskolc? It means that the children's health centre will be terminated. An icon, a 40-45-year-long institution founded by Professor Velkey, has functioned and functioned as a child health centre, one of the key institutions for child health in Hungary. In particular, I would like to point out that one of the leading centres of child diabetes care was this institution. Coordination between different classes, patient care, education or scientific work may not be carried out in accordance with well-functioning model values over previous decades. Over the past decades, they have started to dismantle this institution, research and healing base, founded by László Velkey. Is this all right, according to your judgment? In particular, the professional changes of the Super Hospital are incomprehensible, and it is incomprehensible that there is a serious national problem with the lack of doctors and nurses. Here, with a calm spirit, serious experts are being sent from strategically important and serious areas of shortage. What they do affects the training of future professionals is the overthrow of a bastion of domestic child health and diabetes. I believe that this process is wrong, which is why I considered it important to remember it within the walls of this House. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-11-02-184	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fellow Members! This brings us to the end of the post-meeting speech. I thank the ladies and gentlemen of Congress, the staff of the Parliamentary Office and the parliamentary stenographers for their full day's work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good-bye, good-bye, everyone, in the hope of seeing you tomorrow morning. [[Meeting ended at 4:24 p.m.]]
