u2017-11-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 22nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Loyal Dezső notaries will be here to help me. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Ladies and gentlemen, There will be a general debate on the bill amending individual family support and other laws until closure. Government referral T/1831. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Katalin Veresné Novák, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2017-11-16-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Today, we are starting to negotiate an important law that supports families raising children in many ways, and it is also taking positive measures for young people who are or are about to have children. I would like to highlight a few points from the bill, which, in my view, are the most important. Let us start with one that does not belong primarily to the family area, but that was the initiative of the social secretary of state, the promotion of long-term care workers in old age, and let us briefly say that it is about the introduction of distance. This is a completely new type of benefit, a new type of opportunity, and we want to support families, parents who have chronically ill children, who are already in difficulty because of their child's illness, and this is a very serious burden for the family in all senses, both financially and spiritually, of course. These families are already supported by the introduction of a special care fee in 2014 in addition to the two titles of the care fee, the basic and the increased care fee - and the rate of the care fee has always increased and will increase in 2018 as it has been in recent years - and in 2018 the primary care fee will increase by another 5 percent, so that all recipients of care will receive greater financial support in 2018. So we are thinking of families where the child is permanently ill or disabled. And here, especially in this measure, the introduction of long-term care support for older people, we pay particular attention to those families, and we would like to address families where parents raise a permanently ill child by taking care of this child in their own home, in their everyday lives, for a long time. We call for those who have done this care for 20 years during their active or non-active periods, and who, taking care of their children in this way, have not been able to participate in the labour market, so that their wages could be lower than those who are more active or more active in the labour market. Therefore, with the support of long-term care professionals in old age, the possibility will be opened - if they accept and support this bill, which I would like to ask you to do - to amend the social law and then to create a government decree that will provide for those who have cared for their permanently ill child for at least 20 years in their household, will receive a monthly allowance of HUF 50,000 when they are retired. So we provide you with an additional HUF 50,000 non-tax and contribution allowance for your pension, thus compensating for the loss of income that they had to live to care for their permanently ill child. There is also a possibility that those who have received a disability or persistently ill child can be counted for a maximum period of ten years into the 20-year care period, thus extending the scope of the option. There are still so many criteria that in these families we have laid down the condition that the form of care should be at least one year's higher or special care fee, which is only a guarantee that a permanently ill child will be cared for. So a 20-year nursing period in your own home and that for at least one year the form of care should be an increased or a priority care fee, or that the child should be counted for a period of ten years. Thus, the amount of support for long-term care providers in old age is 50 thousand HUF per month, which is not subject to the obligation to pay contributions. Regardless of whether or not the active care of this child is still taking place for some reason, they will be entitled to this support, or even if they are still receiving a care fee in addition to their pension in view of their child, they will still receive this 50 thousand HUF support. So this is one of the important points of our bill. The other important element, which we have discussed before, and even if not here, within the walls of the Parliament, you may have heard about it, you know this plan, our proposal, our vision, and that is what our current bill is about to double the duration of the student childcare fee. We're talking about your student or graduate. What's this about? Before 2014, before we introduced the ged extra, university students, college students or fresh graduates who had a child were not entitled to the child at all. This meant that these young parents could only benefit because they did not have any income that would have provided the foundation for the child, since they typically did not have a former employment relationship, they typically did not have income from previous employment, and accordingly they were not entitled to the child that could be established on this basis. This changed with the ged extra, we introduced the ged extra on January 1, 2014, which created the possibility for young family founders, whether they did not have a previous relationship, regardless of whether they did not have a previous income, they became eligible for your student or graduate. Students or graduate students were able to receive their students for a year, either one year after graduation or one year after graduation. During that period they were entitled to a year's worth of children. That would be extended to two years with this bill. I can also say that we will adapt it to the general system of the weed. If they support this bill, and if the Parliament accepts this amendment, then the graduate or student law can receive the young people who start a family for two years, not a year, but a child. I think that this is a very serious help, it can give young people much more leeway, or even those who have recently graduated, it will also make it easier for fresh graduates and college students to work on the labour market later on, because they can also take up work thanks to the extra ged. This is therefore the second point of our proposal. The third element I would like to highlight is linked to our cord program. We call the initiative to address those who do not have children within the administrative borders of Hungary, but the parents of any Hungarian child born anywhere in the world outside the administrative borders of Hungary. We would like to strengthen the Hungarian-Hungarian umbilical cord, so we would like to express that for us all Hungarian life is a treasure, every born Hungarian child is a value, wherever parents live. An important element of the Hungarian-Hungarian umbilical cord-program is this legislative amendment proposal, which concerns the amendment of maternity support from 1 January 2018. This would mean - if the Parliament supports and accepts this amendment - that we extend the maternity allowance to those who are not born within the administrative borders of Hungary, and from now on, as of 1 January 2018, any Hungarian child will be born anywhere, the one-off maternity allowance, this 64 125 HUF, at least which will be current in 2018, will also be granted to those who do not have a permanent Hungarian residence address. [[9.10]] The registration process will be carried out by the designated Hungarian authority. By the way, this registration process can start at the same time as announcing this need, and then you just have to indicate your claim. I consider these three points to be the most important of our legislative package, our legislative proposals. I hope that all three of them will be considered worthy of support, as all three would be steps forward to provide additional support to families with children. There are also some technical amendments to our legislative package. I wouldn't give you any details. Perhaps I would like to highlight one more element of this, and that concerns the nursery districts. This would be an amendment to the regulation, which concerns the fact that at present 15 percent of the traditional crèches and 25 percent of the minic crèches are allowed to include children outside the zone. We want to increase flexibility by raising the overall limit of 15 per cent to 25 per cent and 50 per cent for the mini-cradle. This means that in the future, 25 percent of children can be admitted to traditional crèches, 50 percent from outside the district. Of course, this does not mean that these children benefit. This only means that if there is still room for free after the admission of children from the district, there should not be a legal barrier to the admission of these children. This will give the cradle more room for manoeuvre. I hope that by the start of this year's new crèche system, that parents can now choose from four types of crèches, besides the traditional one, from the mini-, family and workplace crèches, by continuously expanding the crèches, by increasing the wages of daycare workers, we have included the higher-education daycare workers in the pedagogical career, and by raising the funding of the crèches two and a half times from 2017 to 2018, so the support for their operation is increasing, I trust that all families will really receive the necessary support to enable parents to work in such a way that they can raise a small child or raise the small child in addition to the work. I consider these to be the element to be highlighted in our legislative package, and I ask for the support of the ladies and gentlemen of Congress. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-16-2	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-16-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I think that in Mrs Secretary of State's exposé the kind of intention we have seen for years from the side of the civilian government is that the family is the most important institution, the smallest but most important institution of the society we are building. We are trying to transform and strengthen the type of social responsibility that appears in the parent-child relationship and in the very fine care units that we have just indicated in the first data. We would like to talk about refining the increased care fee, because, as we have heard, after the care of a disabled, severely disabled family member and child for 20 years, the parent is entitled, even if the child has already been institutionalized, or if the child does not give, Lord God, he has passed away, even if the parent is entitled to 50 thousand HUF in addition to the pension and other benefits obtained under his own law. This is important because this kind of income supplement, which has been put in the background because of the care of a very serious family member, I think it is appropriate for society, the government to compensate and pay - in a nasty way - the kind of work that our government already provides to parents through a law that has been modified by the obligation to make contributions after 2014. It's very important, I'd like to highlight three dates. 1993 is the year when we didn't talk about a nursing fee, but we were talking about basically family benefits and children's benefits. In the case of this period, at least 10 years may be reported at the expense of the 20 years under which parents may be entitled to the distance. I think that the 2011 amendment, the 2014 amendment, where the increased care fee and the special care fee are already included, is due to the need to prove a serious condition in the life of the caregiver, the dependent or well-kept child and the well-groomed child in the calculation of this distance for at least one period. It's proof of need. From 1 January 2018, let me also say about the three basic amounts of care premiums existing, since the basic care fee will already be HUF 32 600 compared to 2011, the increased care fee will be 48 900 and the so-called special care fee, which was introduced by the government from 1 January 2014, is HUF 56 800, so these care fees, if the family member reaches the 20-year care period, will be entitled to a lump sum allowance of HUF 50 thousand. I think it is important to note here that it is important to note that, by amending the administrative laws where pension claims are being applied for, the bureaucratic process at the district offices that will form the basis for this benefit, creating the legal backgrounds needed to establish entitlement. The next major topic is the Child Protection Act, the year XXXI. amendment of the law. Here too, I think that the kind of family policy, the part of social policy relating to the family, is refined by amending the law on the protection of children and the law on social services, where the law on education, LXXX, 2016 is the law on education. Law already deals with children with special needs. However, it was also necessary to implement this in the Child Protection Act, since it has merged two tasks in the field of pedagogical professional services, which concern, on the one hand, pedagogical counselling and, on the other hand, development education, on the other hand, all of which deal with the specific need for education, early development care as a separate concept, but nevertheless with the establishment of uniform professional guidelines. As the Secretary of State has already said, the daycare service is refined in 2017 and can be considered as a quasi-outsourcing of the daycare services in the workplace in relation to the daycare center, but the outsourcing institution must also comply with the work daycare tasks and their legal requirements. It's also his adjustment to life, and I think the intentions that I once again say can be described around the family are, in any case, refined by life. To do so, please try to adapt the documentation background and legal backgrounds that apply to this. Here we can also talk about the capacity utilisation of the mini-cradle, as the 15 percent limit of movement is quite small for people living in the countryside to enter the city. That's why we're trying to help you see if there's room, free capacity, bureaucratic people from other districts, educated, educated - in order to put it in such a very bad way - broaden the range of people who use cradle services, give parents who might try to get their children from small settlements near the district centre, so we're also trying to make maximum use of the space capacity at the same time. LXXXIII. The amendment of the law is also on the agenda. Here, too, the rapporteur tried to reflect on a very important problem, indicated by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, because so far the father was entitled to the baby care fee only if the mother, the woman, dies or is in a position to be unable to perform this task because of her health condition. Now, the law, as I emphasized, gives the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights an opportunity to adjust to life again; leave the family to the woman, the mother, and leave the father to do all the work that the mother should do, and by paying the baby care fee, I think we are trying to put this kind of social responsibility in order to put it in its place. [[9.20]] Then he deals, as the Secretary of State said, with administrative procedures, with the task of district offices, with the arrangement of these documentary backgrounds. I think that the government can contribute to the reduction of the current labour market deficit, the possibility for those who want to learn to learn through life, while increasing the number of children to be born, if we accept this bill, as it increases the possibility for parents, those who use childcare fees, which are young people who are preparing to work on the labour market, but at the same time for young women who are having or have already completed their schools, but who are having a family on the move, to a family that we are proud of in social policy, within family policy, namely: the expansion of the family support system that does not punish young mothers because they are giving birth or giving birth, or giving birth to two before the three-year-old age, because by listing the extras, the right to use of children does not stop with the birth of the first and second children, but also until the three-year age. I think that with the two-year introduction, we can again give a boost to raising the population, which can in any way contribute to the development of Hungarian society. The legislative proposal also addresses the possibility of a bureaucratic reduction in the merger of the national health fund and the pension fund, where the Treasury will be the successor, as well as the acquisition of the IT tools that will simplify the citizens' task of receiving all the benefits that will be implemented through these funds. The Treasury will be the place for state forints, the place for the payment of state aid, where we can control, where we can look into things. I think that it was very important to complete the ongoing IT developments and integrate these institutions. Just a few thoughts about family support. The proposal also applies to the case of a spouse who performs maternity support, posted or employed by foreign representations, or to the maternity support of Hungarian citizens, which, as the State Secretary said, is about the formation and formation of the Hungarian-Hungarian umbilical cord, the national unity. However, the law also states how we can resolve this bureaucratic situation in states such as Slovakia and Ukraine where dual citizenship is not recognised. I think that this proposal, which is about refining the family support system, is worthy of support. I ask Parliament to support it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-16-4	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-16-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, If we look at this amendment more carefully, we can see very well what the government's family policy has been like in recent years: giving as much support as possible to a very narrow layer, but not caring and not dealing with the majority of Hungary. This amendment is very perverse, Madam Secretary. Today, there are about 200,000 people living with disabilities in Hungary. Madam Secretary may be able to provide accurate data, but we do not know the number of people who care for a brother, parent, or grandparent at home. One part of this amendment is that a pensioner who has raised a sick child for 20 years will receive a supplement of HUF 50,000 per month, and this 50 thousand HUF benefit will be paid back for six months. This could be commendable, Madam Secretary, because we say that if the state's services are taken over by the family and a very heavy burden is removed from the state's neck, this must be rewarded. Madam Secretary, I have read that we are talking about about a thousand people, and this affects about a thousand people. What about the others? What about the man who did not care for the child for twenty years, but only for 18 years, or 19.5 years, because the child died? What about parents who are now caring for a severely disabled or sick child? She was nursed for ten years, or had a child now, and now would be the greatest help to avoid having to give the child into a state institution and care for him at home. Madam Secretary, we should not be dealing with how we can help these people to work. I'm not saying they don't care for the patient, I'm saying a part-time job, four hours or two hours for the mother who takes care of her child at home, because most of the time, it's very difficult for these people mentally, and it could be very good for her to be able to break out of the home atmosphere and go to work for an hour or two or four. Perhaps we should deal with these, Madam Secretary. I say, it affects a very, very narrow layer, Madam Secretary, while it concerns a very, very large circle in Hungary today, as I said, not only children, but also fathers and mothers, nursing brothers, grandmothers and grandfathers. There is a very, very wide circle in Hungary today among families who take the burden off the state and receive very little care for these families. We will put forward an amendment to this, Madam Secretary. We are curious to see how family-friendly Fidesz-KDNP representatives will be in the People's Welfare Committee, seeing from the experience of recent years that our amendments will be voted in favour or not voted in favour of not only this thousand people from the additional support system. I know that you will respond to the fact that the economic capacity of Hungary and the government now allows you to give such a large form of support to this narrow circle. Madam Secretary, this is what they always say when we criticize one of the legislative amendments, while we see that HUF 303 billion has been spent on Tao subsidies, which could only be achieved in the end by finding out that they had to be sued. There's a lot of money in this budget that could be transferred to really important things. I can't go to this, Madam Secretary. It is also very positive in communication, and it can be said that it is a very positive measure, but, you know, Madam Secretary, there is a huge difference between children and children, there is a huge difference. If a family graduate gives birth to a child, it may be worth four or five times more to you than if a child is born into a family with a secondary education, and I haven't mentioned the eight generals yet. You understand, Madam Secretary. And everyone knows very well that a graduate can work on the labour market sooner, how much easier. It is possible to say that this could encourage Hungarian citizens to learn as much as possible, but this goes against your education policy, because we see that they are trying to get as few of the next generation to go to university as possible. Now, from the Prime Minister, everyone in the government is communicating that you don't have to get a degree, you have to get a profession. What we do know is that there's no one in this country who has a good profession anymore because you've driven these people out of the country. It is true that they said that they went out to see the world, to gain experience, but what we have not seen in recent years is that these people have come home. So, Madam Secretary, raising your diplomat from one year to two years is also a very perverse support, if you will say so. Of course, it is possible to say that it is necessary to support the birth of as many children as possible in Hungary, and I would only remind you - I may not be able to quote exactly - the words of Péter Harrach. Péter Harrach once suggested in a speech not to Parliament, in a speech that you gave all the money to the graduates and those with the upper income, but did not give birth to as many children as the government would have expected. [[9.30]] Madam Secretary, perhaps we should think about why this is happening, and these terrible differences could be eliminated, which you prefer between children and children, family and family. The cradle, Madam Secretary. I'll ask questions. I'd like to ask you how many work cradles have been created since the cradle conversions took place. It should be noted here that the institution of the new crèche created by the new nursery system is only required to be maintained and guaranteed by the municipalities until the end of 2018. Madam Secretary, what happens after 2018? Or do you wait for the elections of 18 to succeed, and then we'll see whether we support or not? Madam Secretary! Are they concerned with the data that, according to recent surveys, we have about 800 villages that will soon be depopulated? This is a very serious and true survey. There are 800 settlements where all children disappear soon, within a few years. There will be no children. This means that in a few ten years, these 800 villages will be completely old or extinct. Madam Secretary, does the government have a very serious agenda for this, how will it prevent this village destruction? Or do you even want to deal with this? And speaking of demography, I know you're going to tell me that you've succeeded in this. Well, I've always said, Madam Secretary, that the demographic turn of events wasn't a great success. However, in 2011, little more than 88,000 children were born in Hungary, and then they were able to improve a little bit with family policy measures, which affected a very narrow circle positively. Last year, 93,000 children were born, and according to the data now known, a new 0.6 percent reduction was started. And Mrs Secretary of State knows it very well, and I would be careful that success cannot be achieved in the coming years. There is only one reason for this: because after the exit birth number of 75 - if I remember correctly 194 thousand children - there were last such a good indicator in 75, then the birth rate in Hungary continued to decrease. Before the crisis broke out, 196 thousand children were born, and then this was drastically reduced. From now on, I would be careful with those predictions, because it is very easy to turn this around, Madam Secretary, because the number of births is drastically reduced, so the number of women of childbearing age is also drastically reduced. Moreover, about 10 percent of women of childbearing age are abroad, and one in six Hungarian children are no longer born in Hungary. Extension of maternity allowance across the border. I have asked the secretary of state several times, and I will ask again whether the same conditions will apply to Hungarian mothers born outside, as in Hungary. 'Cause there are conditions that have to be met, how many times do you have to see a pediatrician, in a protective service, for mothers to show up. Will this be introduced, or will a distinction be made between a Hungarian mother and a Hungarian mother? And if you introduce the same criteria, how will you verify that this has happened? Because I think it is very important that if we support someone, support is very important, because all children should be supported to see if the same conditions apply to everyone. I am really asking the Secretary of State seriously, because our amendment will not only concern the need to support these thousands of people who have raised sick children, but also to apply to those who care for a sick parent, who, let's say, didn't nurse her for 20 years, but for a shorter period of time for all kinds of reasons. And we're going to take the initiative again to raise the family allowance, Madam Secretary. We will not stop because the family allowance is the benefit of the child. We always emphasize that. And it was one of the tools of child poverty in Hungary, which was a very important tool, because the family allowance was due to all children. The family allowance was last raised in 2008, and it is also due to the disabled child, and the children with disabilities will receive a higher amount in Hungary today. And, Madam Secretary of State, more than 40 percent of this amount has been lost in real terms, which all Hungarian children will receive in Hungary, and it is very important that this government finally realizes that it is not only the family tax relief that can be used to support Hungarian families, family allowance is one of the best tools for this, which was introduced in Hungary several decades ago, though. We are curious to see you at the committee meeting, although I think, as I have recently, because I tabled this amendment about a month ago, of course, it has been voted off, as it has always been in recent years. Madam Secretary, there is only one problem with the family tax reduction - I put it in the little quote sign, and I say it cynically - not everyone can use it. Today, on the basis of the data reported by the APEH, half of the notified workers are declared at minimum wage, Madam Secretary of State. Minimum wage. Then you know very well that if we are talking about three children, then Madam Secretary of State knows how many percent of the mothers who have three children are inactive. Madam Secretary, it must be said here that you were the ones who taxed the minimum wage in your first step in 2010. I think that very good measures can be taken, but, Madam Secretary, do not touch a thousand people. I know what answer I'm gonna get, but there's a lot more people in this very difficult situation. If in Hungary we are talking about how much burden you can remove from a family who does not put your child into an institution... And I do not want to mention now in Hungary the institutional care system, how many times the Ombudsman has brought to the attention of the Ministry, the serious error in the social care system itself, and the disabled themselves, who are within the institutional system. We could talk about this for hours, Madam Secretary. People who don't turn their children, their mothers, their fathers, their brothers into state institutions should be valued. I think that it is not possible to take a thousand people out of the system, but to try to reach out to the government in a uniform way to settle the status of these people as soon as possible, to have an employment relationship and to receive adequate care. Madam Secretary. You've done almost nothing about this for eight years. Almost nothing. And you can't come to Parliament and tell us that we're giving a thousand people a substantial support and we're still ignoring the others. I hope that our amendments will be judged positively and that we will finally be able to see that the laws can be improved by amendments before the end of the term. I would also like to ask you to support our amendments. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-6	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. A two-minute speech is possible. Congressman Zsolt Legány applied for two minutes, or at least he pressed a button here. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew intervenes.]] After the lead speaker. That's what I just said, so it's up to you, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I apologize. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are two things I would like to discuss separately. This is the salad law before us, as it amends quite a lot of things, and changes, among other things, the annual XXXI on the protection of children and guardianship administration. I would like to highlight the law, the law, the law, the law, and the amendment of it. It increases the proportion of children who can be treated from other settlements in the new nursery system, doesn't it? So far, i.e. at present the crèche maintained by the local government can provide up to 15 per cent of its place of residence for children residing outside its supply area or who do not have a place of residence, provided that they are able to provide for the care of children residing in their territory. The law amends this by raising this 15 percent to 25 percent in the future. We understand in practice that this would, of course, be a relief and would help to provide nursery care, but, let's just say, it would also give us an opportunity or a surface to increase segregation. [[9.40]] I definitely had to mention that. I would also like to make one more criticism of the bill. In the extension of maternity support, we see that the government did not work so well that it amends provisions that have already been adopted for this purpose and has not yet entered into force, so they will amend it before it enters into force. Unfortunately, it has not been the first time this week that we have talked about laws where we have had to make amendments that have not yet entered into force. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-8	Thank you. Now, the further speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2017-11-16-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on her election as Vice-President. Secondly, with regard to the law, I would also like to confirm what Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said that this is a proposal worthy of support. The MSZP fraction will have a few amendments at first run, but beyond that, if we could agree on these, we would certainly be able to support the law. However, let me note that it is clear that there is already a positive result of the forthcoming elections, since, both in relation to pensioners and in relation to the increase that is the subject of the bill, there is a kind of positive impact on this election, since interestingly, these proposals are now being put on the table, while these problems have been placed on the table of Parliament and Members for years, in many cases for decades. But let us be positive and optimistic - better late than never! Another problem is that there are a few passes to this bill, which, if I remember correctly, also amends, not so long ago modified, altered legislative passages, which have not even entered into force or been applied. So what I would like to say from this is that this work may not be sufficiently thought-out in many cases, so it is as if they are not planning forward-looking or long-term on these issues. Basically, I asked for three questions, which perhaps Mrs Secretary of State will be able to answer. The first question is, why not increase the amount of different types of care premiums, what is needed to introduce a new care. The other is why the prescribed time is 20 years. The third is why other benefits, including those who are also receiving low benefits for elderly people, are not being increased. And you could add to that what Ildikó Borbély was just talking about. In addition to the questions, let me make a general comment, so that we can also save time. We have not been able to discuss it very much with Minister in the Committee on Budgets, but basically it is a major question why the government spends less than GDP on welfare expenditure. So we can see these initiatives, which are probably inspired by elections rather than by the belief of the government in Christian faith, but it is true that in the following year we spend less on welfare expenditure as compared to GDP, while all we can hear is how well the economy is doing, how strong Hungary is, and it seems to us that the benefits of this increase are not equally benefiting Hungarian voters. Moreover, they are not receiving fairer benefits, because, as Ildikó said, this is a perverted social policy that you are following, because they are giving more help to the better, and they are giving less support and opportunities to those who need it more. Here, too, there is a specific proposal that increases the amount of service for graduates from one year to two years, while people with lower education typically live in more difficult living conditions or have more problems. So in Hungarian, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this social policy should certainly be changed. We see that you have been following this policy for the last eight years, so I see no guarantee that this will change in Fidesz's approach over the next few weeks, months or years. I therefore believe that there is one way to change this perverted social policy: if the country has a new left-wing government. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-16-10	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the proposal. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I will give the author the opportunity to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2017-11-16-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to apologize in advance, because I was about to comment at the time, but I was just waiting to see if there would still be any comments from the other factions, because I did not want to abuse the fact that I would also say my answers in the final word or in the closing word, so that the Members could still react, but I am a second away from this, so I apologize; I wanted to respond in time to your points. I would like to thank Mr Attila Mesterházy for making it clear that the MSZP is willing to support this bill, because from the words of Mrs Mesterházy, I thought it was the opposite conclusion, and I concluded that it would not be surprising, after all, to see once again that a proposal that serves to improve the welfare of families is not supported. Congresswoman has also referred to this, which I simply cannot interpret. If there is a proposal that makes no one's situation worse, but makes it better for a significant group, why is it something that cannot be supported, I find it very difficult to understand, but in the end it is not unusual in your logic. What is also not unusual is that you would like to spend the resources from the economic space created by our governance. That's what they had the chance to do. This opportunity, not only did they not make use of it, but they pushed the country into debt. So I think that it is necessary to farm well, and that the economic scope created as a result of this good farming should indeed be well exploited. All proposals are, of course, welcome, and all constructive proposals are very welcome. She also said that she practically said that there is no point in dealing with the fact that the Hungarian population is losing weight. I think that's a pretty defetist attitude. He said that whatever we were doing, we couldn't fix that. I think it's a pity to have this attitude, and I don't think it's worth it. I don't think it's leading the country forward. I think it is necessary to say that we can change this situation and find a way to do so. I suggest that we do not give up this fight, and I am glad that we can count on your support in this too. In response to the words of the congresswoman, what is wrong with the family tax reduction. It really needs to be worked, that's true, but I don't see it as such a serious problem. So I think it is good to have subsidies that encourage people to take up work and increase this type of support. This is indeed in your philosophy different from what you have followed, followed, but we will continue to follow this philosophy in the future. As far as the concrete bill is concerned, there is a lot of misunderstanding here, I see, but I am happy to shed light on how these family subsidies work. One misunderstanding was made from the mouths of many of them. I think both Members have mentioned that we are already going to amend things that have not yet been introduced, and that we would amend something before it even came into force. There is no such point in this package of proposals. I don't know what you're thinking. I don't know what you're thinking. We are indeed changing the regulation of maternity allowance, given that we are introducing a new type of maternity allowance. This normally works by amending the relevant law. There's nothing new about that. That's what we're talking about right now. I don't know, I just don't know what you mean when you say we want to change it to an unintroduced system. There's no such thing. There's new elements. Just like I don't understand why they're saying we're getting these things out now. These are, of course, not the proposals that have been drawn up at all. You have been familiar with these proposals for a long time. Now, we'd like to put these into law. They are part of the demographic policy that we are pursuing and the family policy that we are pursuing. So I think it is good to clarify these misunderstandings and to read the proposal in detail. I am even sensing an important misunderstanding based on what you have said, that you may not know what your graduate is, and perhaps you do not know the pre-2014 system, even the system at the time of your own governance, because it was about not making any distinction, or on the contrary: in fact, it was then that we made a distinction between young people who studied and who didn't learn. [[9.50]] After all, at the time of your administration, the system worked by punishing those who studied, punishing those who went to university, because they couldn't work yet, because they didn't have a degree in their pockets, which is why they didn't support them with the fact that they could get the lawn, only the child was entitled to receive 28 500 forints. Anyone who works, who doesn't go to college, but who is working, of course, after his paycheck, will receive the lawn, and, if necessary, will receive the child in the third year. So this is also a fundamental misunderstanding. I think it is worth studying these regulations and the various elements of family policy. The gyed extra is all about it, and the part of the student ged and its extension is merely about supporting those who have children during university and college years for another year, or immediately after the university and college graduation. I am very much counting on your support in this regard, too. In response to your questions, I would like to say that the things we do are not exclusive, of course, so, as I have said, we will also increase the long-term care fee in the following year, so these things will not happen in an exclusive way, but in parallel. And why it was decided 20 years ago, Mr President, he even asked that question. Because a regulation must be put in place; if you have constructive proposals for this, so that it is not 20, but 19 or 21, of course we will consider it, but the philosophy of this proposal is that we support families with this new form of support who have provided for these children permanently in their homes, so that we have defined a longer period. There was another one in the words of the congresswoman, which, in my opinion, gives rise to misunderstanding about what if the child dies during the course of the 20-year period and that is why it does not come out. This is also included in the proposal that, of course, they will be entitled to this support in the same way. Therefore, if the child dies at any time before, they will still be entitled to this support. So that doesn't affect it. I'm hoping we can clear up the misunderstanding, you know, ask the questions. Once again, I apologize for not being able to join in at the appropriate stage of the debate, but I did not know if the other factions wanted to comment on it, and I trust that everyone will support our proposals to support families again and to strengthen the Hungarian-Hungarian umbilical cord. I would like this to be a consensus that can indicate that Hungarian people, Hungarian families, can count on our support. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-16-12	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the publication of the Protocol on the settlement of bilateral international treaties between Hungary and Mongolia is now taking place. The government referral is T/18306. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Magyar Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-16-13	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, We're about to make a very interesting presentation. The purpose of this draft law is to grant authorisation and at the same time to recognise the binding effect of the Protocol between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the settlement of the scope of bilateral international treaties between Hungary and Mongolia. 2053/2003 on the revision of contractual relations between the Republic of Hungary and certain former socialist countries. under a government decision, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is responsible for reviewing Hungary's international treaties with former socialist countries and identifying the agreements in force. In view of the Government's efforts to develop the multifaceted Hungarian-Mongol relationship system as part of its Eastern opening policy, negotiations between Hungary and Mongolia on the revision of the international contractual relations between the two countries began in 2013 on the basis of that government decision, in order to determine which agreements the parties intend to maintain and which agreements they do not. As a result of the review, the Protocol on the settlement of bilateral international treaties between Hungary and Mongolia was signed in Ulanbátor on 25 January 2016, which will settle the scope of our international treaties with Mongolia. For the final determination of the text of the Protocol, Nst. 5. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 8/2016 it is necessary to grant authorisation. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. (Gr. 22. It was secured by a Prime Minister's decision. Under the Protocol, 11 bilateral conventions remain in force between our country and Mongolia, the rest being repealed. The Act declaring the Protocol also provides for the deregulation of legislation declaring international contracts which expire at the same time as the Protocol enters into force. The Mongolian Party has already informed our country that it has conducted the procedure necessary for the entry into force of the Protocol. After the adoption of the Hungarian Advertising Act, the Protocol can be put into effect. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-11-16-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-16-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The review of the international treaties between Hungary and certain former socialist countries also includes a review of bilateral agreements between Hungary and Mongolia, as stated here by the State Secretary. In this context, 11 agreements have been decided to remain in force and 5 agreements are repealed. It is a good thing that a change of regime took place in Mongolia many years ago, and, after the socialist or so-called socialist arrangement, democracy has also taken the path of this country in Internal Asia, bordered by two dominant powers, Russia and China. For this reason, it was also necessary to review the existing international treaties between our countries, to repeal outdated agreements. The Protocol to this effect was signed in the framework of the visit of the Hungarian Prime Minister to Ulanbátor in January 2016. The development of Hungarian-Mongol relations is part of the government's Eastern opening policy, as demonstrated by the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán received the President of Mongolia in Budapest in August this year. The negotiations agreed that bilateral economic relations could be further strengthened in the areas of water management, food industry, information technology and animal health. Hungarian-Mongol economic and cultural cooperation has a long history. Further development of economic relations is also well served by the tied aid credit facility. The fact that the development of Hungarian-Mongol relations is important for the Hungarian government also shows that high-level meetings between the two countries are common, so in May 2017 Prime Minister Viktor Orbán held talks with his Mongolian partner at the One Belt One Road - a zone, a road - international forum that creates the infrastructure for EuroAsian cooperation. Hungary also supports Mongolia's strategic cooperation with the European Union, as both Hungary and, in our opinion, the European Union must maintain the closest possible links with the world's fastest developing region, the Asia-East Asian region. The Fidesz and KDNP factions support the articles of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-16-16	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-11-16-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I predict that the MSZP faction will support the proposal before us, even because the essence of this would be that the Republic of Hungary and certain former socialist countries will be able to review contractual relations in 2053/2003. On the basis of Government Resolution No.1 the international treaties concluded with former Socialist States not covered by the Treaty Review procedure before 1990 will be reviewed. [[10.00]] On the basis of this Government Decision, negotiations between Hungary and Mongolia on the revision of the international contractual relations between the two countries began in 2013 and in order to determine which agreements the parties intend to maintain and which they do not, and as a result of the negotiations the parties decided to maintain 11 agreements in force. The Protocol of five articles covers the scope and legal fate of all bilateral international treaties concluded between Hungary and Mongolia until 2016. I would like to point out that the Protocol only applies to international contracts, that the interinstitutional agreements between Hungary and Mongolia were not the subject of this agreement, and that five international treaties will now expire. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-11-16-18	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-16-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the publication of the Protocol on the settlement of bilateral international treaties between Hungary and Mongolia, on which it is worth saying that the aim of this is to publish the protocol signed in Ulanbátor 2016. This is based on the Government Decision 2053/2003, according to which it is necessary to revise the agreements with the former socialist countries. Negotiations with Mongolia started in 2013, which were concluded last year. The minutes contain agreements which have remained in force, but in the case of those which cease to exist, there is no detail on the exact context of this. A more detailed explanation could have been included in the proposal before us. Dear Parliament, Although Mongolia's level of development is a special country, since outside the capital, the population practically only deals with animal farming - a few years ago I had the pleasure of walking there - and we can even say that Ulanbátor is a dual picture, because besides skyscrapers, we can meet the world of the yurts in the suburbs, but it is worth highlighting in the internal Asian state that he is an extremely rich and culturally attractive destination in mineral resources. It must also be acknowledged that the trading house in Ulanbátor is one of the few such establishments that have succeeded. Jobbik considers it important to make further progress in this respect and to strengthen our relations with Mongolia not only in cultural but also in economic and other aspects. And since it is essentially a technical bill that can strengthen relations between the two countries, Jobbik's group supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-16-20	Thank you, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2017-11-16-21	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly, Mr Zsolt Legény also said that the MSZP naturally supports this amendment. Actually, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to a request and perhaps a advice: one is that it is worth reviewing these treaties in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, how they stand, because there are several such relations. The other point is that it is often mentioned as a negative, that it was a socialist country, but it may also have a comparative advantage for Hungary in terms of building economic relations. So, as my better fellow Member has said here, it is worth taking advantage of, taking advantage of the benefits that come from the fact that many state leaders, current state leaders, have studied in Hungary, and many speak excellent Hungarian. Therefore, the kind of lobby map or contact map that could be used to benefit the Hungarian economy in the present and in the future, in relation to the half-way past. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-16-22	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the proposal. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, if he wishes to speak at the end of the debate, although there was no debate. [[Hungarian Levente: No, thank you.]] Thank you. The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Next up is Hungary and the People's Republic of China The general discussion of the draft law on the publication of the Agreement on the promotion of the educational activities of the University of Chinese Medicine of Heilongjiang in Hungary until closure. The government referral is T/18304. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-11-16-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to the T/18304 announcement of the agreement between Hungary and the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China in Heilongjiang Province. On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to explain in a few sentences the main elements of the bill before the Parliament's plenum. This proposal concerns the publication in Hungary of a legal basis for the further operation in Hungary of a foreign higher education institution providing BSc-level training at the Faculty of Health Sciences at Semmelweis University, the University of China's Traditional Chinese Medical University in Heilongjiang Province, and the recognition of its binding scope. This agreement was signed on 30 October 2017 by Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and on the part of the Education Office of Heilongjiang Province, by its President Xu Mei. The purpose of this bill is to announce the agreement. The conclusion of the agreement is justified by the investigations carried out by the Education Office in 2016 and the consequences thereof. In the amendment of the 2011 Higher Education Act, it was determined that the operation of foreign institutions in Hungary should be reviewed within five years, compared to 2011. This review took place in 2016, and this revealed several irregularities that led to this law being amended. The amendment of the Act states that in the case of foreign higher education institutions established outside the European Union and outside the European Economic Area and pursuing educational activities in Hungary, it is necessary to conclude an international contract between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the State in which the institution is established to support operations in Hungary in principle. This provision of the law affects five higher education institutions in three countries - this was six, but one of them withdrew or refused to continue to operate the training in Hungary. One of these is Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine, Hungary. In accordance with this amendment, it is necessary to conclude an international contract with the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China. Here, the Prime Minister and the Chinese Prime Minister have agreed in principle to continue their cooperation in education. The question of higher education is also a provincial issue in China, which is why it became necessary for us to negotiate with the Ministry of Education in the Province and then to conclude an agreement with him. The agreement in the draft law supports the educational and training activities of the Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine at the Faculty of Health Sciences at Semmelweis University. It states that the Chinese University can issue a degree to students who have completed all the necessary courses and meet the execution criteria. It also concludes that the Chinese university can also issue a degree to students who have met the criteria for obtaining a university degree, but this can only take place after the master's degree built on it, which can only be acquired by those involved in China. In the document, the Parties have designated professional contact points which take joint responsibility for complying with the Agreement. In particular, we want to better represent the future interests of students participating in this training with the agreement between the two countries. With the entry into force of this draft law, the conditions for the operation of the University of Chinese Medicine of Heilongjiang in Hungary will be settled. I ask the honourable Members and gentlemen to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-16-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-16-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Traditional Chinese medicine is very popular in Hungary. Therefore, we are doing everything we can to enable those interested in traditional Chinese medicine looking back for thousands of years to have the opportunity to study in this area. [[10.10]] According to the agreement between the Heilongjiang University of Traditional Chinese Medicine and the University of Semmelweis, training is already taking place at the Faculty of Health Sciences. The subjects taught in Hungary are divided into two categories, subjects of Western medicine and related to traditional Chinese medicine. Traditional Chinese medicine is taught by Chinese professionals living and working in Hungary, whose participation was approved by Heilongjiang University. In recent years they have been joined by young Hungarian professionals who have acquired their skills and qualifications in China. The Semmelweis University's international cooperation in education and research has been extremely diverse, and in recent years its Chinese relations have developed particularly dynamically. Since 2011, the Faculty of Health Sciences has been teaching on traditional Chinese medicine in the framework of the Heilongjiang University's assigned training. The training cooperation programme is fully in line with the government's efforts, according to which experience in Eastern relations, including traditional Chinese medicine, can be used in many respects for Hungarian society. With the cooperation of the two prestigious universities, a new model has been created for international education. Chinese and Hungarian experts can work together in the field of medicine, and besides traditional medicine, they learn more about each other's cultures. According to the 2017 amendment of the Act on National Higher Education, in the case of foreign higher education institutions established outside Europe and pursuing educational activities in Hungary, it is necessary to conclude an international contract between the Hungarian Government and the Government of the Home State to support the operation in Hungary in principle. The purpose of this bill is to comply with this condition. And I would just like to say that, well, there is a possibility of complying with the above-mentioned Higher Education Act, which does not contain any unrealistic or unfulfilled requirements or requirements, and I am thinking of the fact that an agreement with a province also complies with the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-26	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-11-16-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Then I would like to continue from where my fellow Member, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of Fidesz, left off. I should like to say in advance that we basically disagree with the whole concept, on the basis of which this proposal is now in front of us. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: the 2011 CCIV on national higher education, as amended by law. Law 76. Pursuant to paragraph 1 (a), as my fellow Member Csenger-Zalán said, in the case of foreign higher education institutions established outside the European Union and outside the European Economic Area and operating in Hungary, it is necessary to conclude an international contract between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Home State to support operations in Hungary in principle. This was not necessary in the last 20-25 years, no matter how many, until the Fidesz and Orbán started a personal campaign against the CEU. This is where it all starts, and that's why I'm telling you that we can't agree with the whole principle and the whole system. Moreover, the above provision of the aforementioned law concerns five higher education institutions in three states, one institution for China and Thailand and three for the United States, the three for Boston University, Central European University - CEU and McDaniel College. The presentation of McDaniel College was in the walls of the House not so long ago, nor was it supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction. This international agreement wants to be a forced agreement, which was necessary only because Fidesz decided, as part of the Soros campaign, to make the Central European University impossible, eliminate or at least drive out of the country. There is no better proof of this than that János Lázár said in a government briefing that here we were in peace together, the CEU and the Fidesz government in recent years, the change came in this way when George Soros announced a programme to open up European borders and invite one million immigrants to Europe every year. Unfortunately, the Fidesz attack on CEU and the cited amendment of the Act on National Higher Education also affected the functioning of five other higher education institutions, including the University of Chinese Medicine, Heilongjiang. Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine has become an innocent sufferer of this action, which, by the way, I think is just another dark chapter in the development of Viktor Orbán's illiberal regime. What proves this more than János Lázár once again, who talked about the fact that McDaniel College, who declared himself a liberal university, complied with all Hungarian rules. So you have complied with the rules of that time, and you have made a law that does not comply with it now unless you enter into different international or provincial agreements. By the way, they were probably trying to get - how should I put it - to pay attention to Hungary in Washington. There were also interpretations that led to Viktor Orbán's wish to win his personal meeting with Donald Trump, but I would not go to such heights, of course. Overall, we say and say that this proposal, which is now before this House, had to be just a forced agreement, because you are trying to force educational institutions to do things with political motivation and political interests that would not otherwise be necessary. So once again, we can't agree on principle. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-11-16-28	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lajos Rig, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-16-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, the bill came before this House because of the lex CEU, because of its compliance with the law. I think that if such an educational institution meets these legal conditions, it has a right in Hungary, because Chinese medicine, as has been said from the words of the Fidesz lead speaker, looks back thousands of years, and it is already applied in Hungary, either in health institutions or in recreation centers, it is enough to take the most popular, acupuncture treatments, which are also used in joint aches, diseases or cardiovascular diseases, I think that this is a priority for each country, that if the medicine and medicine of other cultures are taught in its own home country, it can also be important for Hungary, so the group of Jobbik will naturally support it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-16-30	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Mr Attila Mesterházy, on behalf of the MSZP, has applied for a further speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In fact, Zsolt Legény said the position of the MSZP fraction on the subject; we will not support it, as he said. I would like to add to my fellow Member's thoughts for a sentence that, in my opinion, Mr State Secretary, this amendment to the Higher Education Act should be withdrawn, since it is apparent from the comments made that these universities have, by the way, carried on their activities in Hungary peacefully and calmly, to the satisfaction of everyone, so that the five universities concerned have not broken any rules, they have not committed any fraud, even though they have spoken about this in several radio interviews with the Prime Minister. They have made a law that actually creates another obstacle to the functioning of these universities, but it is really all about a political campaign, and to do so, various smaller or bigger stools are being built here in Parliament. Therefore, therefore, it would be more worthwhile to withdraw the law or amendment of the entire barrier, because then there would not be so many people to travel, negotiate, spend a lot of money and time to conclude completely unnecessary international treaties for the purpose of serving your party political campaign in the course of the elections in 2018. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[10.20]]
u2017-11-16-32	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Zsolt Legány applied for a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My apologies for raising my voice once again in connection with an international treaty, I forgot to mention one important thing in the keynote speech, and I would like to say it once again to you and to the record, although I think you are fully aware of it. I could say that the idea that they thought didn't work because the amendment of this Higher Education Act is nothing more than a state attack against George Soros and his foundation, and despite it, they are declaring war on the Central European University and together with four or five other institutions that Viktor Orbán, József Szájer, Zsolt Németh, Tamás Deutsch, Zoltán Kovács or, let's say, László Kövér, who could study Central European movements abroad with the help of the Soros Foundation. You have repeatedly said that this was a long time ago, but we also need to add that Ákos Berzetei, Deputy State Secretary for Legal and Coordination Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, started his studies in CEU Business School last year. Thank you. That's all I wanted to say, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán in two minutes.
u2017-11-16-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not wish to comment in two minutes, but my colleague Zsolt Legény indicated that he had forgotten to tell me something that he seems to have just received from iPaden, because he managed to read from there what he had forgotten, but it is a detailed question. What I think is important to say is that this agreement before us shows that it is also possible to comply with a certain law on higher education. The law on higher education was necessary in order to ensure that all forms of education that do not have any place in Hungary do not come here. I say it immediately and explicitly, not the CEU, because the CEU is a standard, but perhaps the Secretary of State will help me to believe that there are indeed higher education courses that have not yet been intended to comply with this new law, they have not submitted it, simply because, I would not like to say this, perhaps, higher education courses from Burma or some similar Far Eastern place have not even started. I understand that there are efforts to operate with the most diverse form of paper, so that you can get all kinds of fabulous degrees. I also know that the Socialist Party has serious relations in Guinea, for example [[Attila Mesterházy: Tell me what it's like.]] I do not think that it is necessary to reduce or endanger the quality of Hungarian diplomas with such absolute qualityless trainings and thus awarded degrees. Thank you.
u2017-11-16-36	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has applied for a normal comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-37	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I wouldn't have said anything either, but my fellow Member, Mr Csenger-Zalan, spoke so much nonsense that it would encourage people to comment on this debate. So you're saying that everyone in Hungary has been able to get a university title and a degree in institutions until this law was passed? Well, you can't be serious that ever since this law on higher education, you can't issue foxy-max degrees in Hungary and all kinds of silly training! Well, then what kind of training was Sümegen, which was supported by the Hungarian National Bank, and then had to plow the entire institution and withdraw the money? ! At least let's be honest. The story is that you're campaigning against Soros, because it's a good campaign, it's a covert Jewish campaign, it's possible to get extreme right-wing voters, and it fits into your constant fight against someone, that's what this amendment of the law is about, it's for party policy purposes, it has nothing to do with Chinese medicine and McDaniel College and CEU. It's just an extravagance that you were financed by George Soros when the Fidesz was formed, not you, because you were transferred from the MDF to the Fidesz. But for those who were mixed up in Fidesz at the very beginning, György Soros gave you their basic infrastructure when they started politicalizing, not to mention how many people were studying there and learning about George Soros's money at the moment. I asked for Soros's scholarship, please, I didn't get it, but I'm telling you, this is what you guys are doing, but it's just an insolence in this story. And then you say please, here you can meet the conditions! Of course, the conditions can be met, one cannot comply with them, the CEU, all the others can meet, that is the whole purpose of the law amendment. At least let's not have this conversation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-38	Thank you. Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán is now entitled to the floor in two minutes.
u2017-11-16-39	Thank you very much. Very briefly. This is my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, who said that only the CEU can't live up to it. I think the CEU can meet him the moment he starts some kind of education in the United States. The biggest problem at CEU was precisely that it was an accredited education in America that taught nowhere else but here in Hungary. I think that it must be a condition in any way that only foreign trainings can be shown in Hungary, which actually have training abroad, should not be a kind of loophole. I didn't say for a minute that there were or couldn't have been training in Hungary, apart from this, that the quality of which is questionable, but the fault of the Hungarian accreditation system, which can be eliminated, can be corrected. If we accept all kinds of foreign accreditations automatically, the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian accreditations, would not have any other influence on this. This is what the Higher Education Act aimed at. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-40	Thank you. The discussion continues. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in two minutes.
u2017-11-16-41	Thank you very much. Then I have one more question: why haven't similar measures been taken between 1998 and 2002 or similar measures taken between 2010 and 2017? So if there is such a deep professional reason for this, of course, these universities were formed in Hungary during different periods, but I think that this has caused you problems during the first Orbán government, and it has caused you problems from 2010 onwards, and there have been two thirds of them, and they have even changed the constitution, rather than being able to cope with such a huge problem as my fellow Member referred to. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-16-42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény in a normal time frame.
u2017-11-16-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor again because my fellow Member, Mr Csenger-Zalan, was trying to set this thing up as if I had just received an iPaden list of all the people I listed from Fidesz's top staff who were in Soros Scholarship. No, Congressman, it usually looks like I usually watch laws on iPad, and I don't usually be here with a paper model. So, before you tried to suggest here that I, as some sort of Soros soldier, had just suddenly received an international conspiracy theory of what else I should tell you. No! That is not what happened, but that I have actually left it out of my speech as a keynote speaker, to list once again for the record and for you those you have heard several times, who, by the way, have been able to conduct studies in connection with the scholarship or in any way with Soros, from the current leadership of your current party. In addition, I would like to state once again that this amendment to the Higher Education Act, which you have brought into this House at the time, is intended to achieve politically motivated and political goals, namely that they want to make the CEU impossible, and that, moreover, who is still, let's say, playing or acting on this kind of space, several universities that could continue training in Hungary have been practically included in the slapping box, and that is why we need to talk about these things here. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-44	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.30]]
u2017-11-16-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to comment on this debate and to conclude with a few thoughts. However, before I turn to the points raised here, I would like to say something. There are 68 higher education institutions in Hungary, 27 of which are state higher education institutions, and the rest are either ecclesiastical or private higher education institutions. In addition, 22 foreign higher education institutions have permission to train in Hungary at the moment. I must also add that these 22 higher education institutions brought their own accreditation to Hungary. So it is not that the Hungarian government would do anything with these, here with the permissions from the recognised accreditation system of that country, these institutions operate on content issues. So I think that it would be difficult to start higher education training in Hungary either for a Hungarian legal person or for a foreign institution, or for anyone to influence it in any way, it is difficult to say that. It is so difficult that if you read the Venice Commission, by the way, I think it contains a fully objective and fair report, which is exactly what it contains. I was there at the meeting of the Venice Commission when the report was adopted, and the Venice Commission itself defended the autonomy of the Hungarian higher education system against various political issues by saying that there is nothing wrong with this, since foreign accreditation is accepted in Hungary, so nobody is involved in the content. So I think that, in this sense - this report also includes the fact that the Fundamental Law guarantees - the autonomy of the higher education system in Hungary is in no way affected by this amendment or anything else. This is where Sümeg was mentioned. I think that there can be training in Hungary today, which, if the local community requires, such higher education because it needs training to operate its economy, its society there, I think that this is a positive thing, the system of Community higher education training centres. I believe that this is a particularly positive result of the 2014 higher education strategy that has been set up. Obviously, there is a need for the community and the institution to find each other to be able to operate this training well. You mentioned Sümeg, obviously you were thinking of a specific university after Sümeg terminated it and concluded a similar agreement with another university. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew intervenes.]] He ended it because they thought the terms weren't given. This is the decision of the institution and the local government [[Lajos Rig: Budget fraud!]] That he stopped it. I think it was wise for the Sümegians to do so and to start this cooperation with another higher education institution. Let's hope this works out well. So I would rather consider this as a positive thing that this system exists in Hungary today. What is important to mention is why this amendment was necessary in 2016 and 17 and why in 2017. It is relatively simple: in 2011, the new National Higher Education Act was born, which said that within five years the new definition of institutions should be reviewed, not only the functioning of foreign higher education institutions, but also the revision of all others. When this happened in the second half of 2016, we saw that not all 26 foreign higher education institutions at the time function as higher education institutions, either because they didn't start their activities at all, or because they didn't perform higher education activities in their own country, or because the activity they did in Hungary didn't lead to a higher education degree. We are always talking about CEU here, but there were a series of other universities that did not meet these conditions. There was a series of other universities that were otherwise suitable. All kinds of mistakes could be accomplished by another university, McDaniel College. So probably these weren't unfulfilled either. Nevertheless, we wanted to clarify what a foreign higher education institution means because of one and one aspect, which is the student's point of view. The fact that there is a difference in law between universities within the EEA and universities outside the EEA has a relatively simple reason for this: universities within the EEA belong to the same European Higher Education Space, we understand their operation precisely, the Bologna system was introduced in the same way by everyone, and we meet with the ministers of these countries on a monthly and two-month basis. So we have cases in common, where, if any question that violates the interests of students arises, we can resolve it very quickly. Unfortunately, this is not the case for the university of countries outside the EEA, as a university of a distant country is appearing in Hungary and is training, and this must be settled in some form in order to protect the interests of students studying here in Hungary. What happens if, let's say, the university that operates in a foreign country ceases to exist or wasn't in the first place, then who will be dealing with students here in Hungary who otherwise attend the institution here? The case is specific because when we discussed the Maryland State issue, the training of another university in the Maryland State ceased in the Philippines, and they stood there not knowing what to do with the students, and the students took part in the non-existent training of a non-existent institution at that moment. Therefore, this also justifies the need to conclude such a contract in some form. I think that the conclusion of these contracts was not even a problem with the United States. In the case of federalised countries - the United States belongs here, China too - the provinces are responsible for education. So the central government has a prior agreement with the law, it happened in both countries, it happened with the United States Ministry of Education within an exchange of letters, and it also happened with the People's Republic of China, and then we settled the conditions with the respective province, these two contracts. Not only did our partners see no problem in this, but they said that it was then that this relationship was settled, from then on all the other institutions from that country can operate in peace. This is true of Hungarian institutions, of course, as they can function in this way, if the law of that country allows them to operate. The extent to which this is the case of the Member State in question is apparent in Europe, about half of the EU countries do not understand the foreign university very well, or if the foreign university operates, for example, a degree can only be issued in England together with an English university. There are a number of countries in Europe where they do not even know this concept, and in Germany there are three out of the 15 provinces there is a foreign higher education institution as a concept. Speaking of CEU, for example, CEU would not be authorised to operate in this form. One question always arises why Hungary developed this at that time. Because I think that what I have said is clear that the regulation of our education system is sufficiently free, sufficiently open to allow anyone wishing to pursue real activity in Hungary to do so. The question is why we insist that the university that wants to train in Hungary is once again, as a foreign institution, bringing its own accreditation here, showing its own rules, showing its own people here... - we think so because I believe that the transfer of knowledge from higher education means that from somewhere it is a service, knowledge transfers somewhere. Now, where he doesn't have any activity, what is it that he brings here? Or if you want to run an institution here, you can operate it as a private university registered in Hungary, a church university, as it does in the case of CEU. We are talking about CEU consistently, but here the university is not CEU, because it does not exist, the university is the Central European University. It is the Central European University whose building, its instructors, have been accredited. And this is what American accreditation points to, and this is the institution that does the kind of education, the kind of training that the CEU then pays in America with an American degree. I could ask you, of course, what's wrong with CEU issuing an American degree. There's nothing wrong with that - we're talking about the CEU in New York - if that's just the reason why this particular construction has to be operated, there's an example in Europe, Bulgaria, there's a university that works with the support of the Open Society Foundations, a Bulgarian private institution, and otherwise issues an American degree without being an American legal person. So this problem can be solved. So I think it is not necessary to worry that this was an anti-CEU law. However, regarding the establishment of campus, there were various criticisms that the time was short - we extended the date of entry into force of the law by one year until 1 January 2019. Everyone who doesn't have their own educational activities in their own country, doesn't have campus, educational activities to create this. I think that by starting these negotiations between the State of New York and Hungary, one of which is indeed the creation of CEU's American training, we have acknowledged that the university that transfers knowledge to another country should already have this kind of knowledge in its own country. That's all this law says, in that sense, it's a technical case, so thank you for your support. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of an amendment to the Single Convention on Drugs, published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965, in New York on 30 March 1961, is now now taking place. The government referral is T/18299. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.40]]
u2017-11-16-47	Mr President, Dear House, I will try to be brief and not to waste your time, because there are three proposals in sequence that are before you because of a treaty, an international treaty, because they can only be put into effect by law in the Hungarian legal order. The first is before you in connection with Decree-Law No 4 of 1965 on the announcement of a single drug convention in New York on 30 March 1961. The United Nations Committee on Drugs has taken a decision to include U-47700 and butyrfentanyl in lists 1 and 4 of this Convention, which is why I am here before you. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-16-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-16-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The regulation of drugs and psychotropic substances is based on three international UN conventions, the 1961 Single Convention on Drugs, the 1971 Vienna Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which is now on the agenda, and the 1988 Vienna Convention against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, which provides for the production, manufacture and regulation of certain activities to be carried out with used chemicals. The illicit distribution of drugs and psychotropic substances is all the more devastating, and in many parts of the world, the market also makes children a illicit drug user, which is an immensely serious threat, so I would stress the fact that in Hungary, too, there was a need to expand the scope of addictological rehabilitation services for people under the age of 18. The profession has come up with the opportunity to provide child and youth addictological rehabilitation. In the framework of this, a total of 50-seat Addictological Rehabilitation Care was created in Szatymazon, Budapest and Ráckeresztú, supported by the social and health portfolio with HUF 60 million per year. Although, as has been said, the bill specifically concerns the inclusion of U-47700 active substances and butyrfentanyl compounds on the list of the most heavily controlled drugs, and the supplementing and inclusion of the convention, I still believe it is important, and I considered it important that the fight against child and youth drug use in all forums, so we also draw attention here. Fidesz supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-50	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-11-16-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So, on iPad, I would like to take our position once again. The single drug convention was created in New York on 30 March 1961, which was published in Hungary by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965. On this basis, it was adopted by the United Nations Committee on Drugs on 16 March 2017 under Article 60/2. and 60/3. Decision No 1 on the basis of which the U-47700 and butyrfentanyl are included in the list 1 of the Single Drug Convention. These substances are not included in the lists of existing legislation allowing for stricter controls in Hungary, and have been transferred to the most strictly controlled category internationally by including them in the lists of the Single Drug Convention. Naturally, the Hungarian Socialist Party also supports this proposal, since the fight against drugs and the fight against drugs are considered very, very important and high priority. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-11-16-52	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lajos Rig, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-16-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I do not think that this is the first and this will not be the last fentanyl derivative to be placed before this House and banned. Fentanyl has many alphas, many do not know that fentanyl itself is a drug that is 1,000 times stronger than morphine, a painkiller, an opiate-containing drug. Its primary use is usually due to surgical anesthesia, pain relief, or tumour pain relief, and a very useful drug, I think, in medicine. Butyrfentanyl itself came to Hungary on the basis of an American case, and I trust that it will only come here because of the case and in paper form, and that later on, drug users will not use this very dangerous drug. There, the cause of death of two people of unidentified origin was investigated, and then this fentanyl derivative was found in the body, which has, as I said, several kinds of alphas. This is closely monitored both during surgical procedures and in emergency care, as we now hear more and more about ambulances being hacked, and you can find this type of fentanyl in ambulances and ambulances, and it is included in the equipment, which is even more powerful than this drug. I think that we should continue to deal with this and think about bringing it down from the level of government regulation to the level of ministerial regulation, as this would speed up the listing of all the substances that are unfortunately still ahead of us in the next presentation. The Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this.
u2017-11-16-54	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Congressman Attila Mesterházy has indicated his intention to speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-55	Dear House, While we are talking about drugs in this House, it is worth remembering for a moment that this government is not doing much to combat or reduce the problem of drugs, because in the past, in the correct way, during the first Orbán government, a complete State Secretary has been set up to deal with this issue of drug prevention within the framework of the Ministry of Youth and Sport. There were many serious experts employed by this Ministry at the time, prepared in 2000 - perhaps since then, I think, the first serious drug strategy - the drug prevention strategy in Hungary. Otherwise, the content of this programme and the whole workflow were surrounded by a socio-professional consensus. So in Hungarian, what has been formulated in this strategy, it must have meant a broad range of professional policy, perhaps to say, social consensus. By the way, this strategy was also binding or acceptable to the subsequent Socialist Government, as the strategy itself defined the management of this problem in a ten-year perspective, which I believe it has done correctly, and a number of actions have been launched in the Ministry itself with public budget funding, which focused on prevention and, on the other hand, has also focused on harm reduction, and a large number of NGOs have received support and assistance from needle exchange programmes. Now, in its latest strategy, if I remember correctly, the government promised a drug-free Hungary by 2020 - but it will correct, Mr. State Secretary, if I don't put it right - this means that there are only three years left now, or maybe two to make Hungary a drug-free country. I think this is right, but let's just say that it was a very ambitious goal on the part of the government, because we would all like it if there were no drugs in Hungary, but this idyllic situation is probably not going to come up in the next 20 years, unfortunately, which is why we have to set ourselves an alternative criterion of success. One of them is certainly the issue of prevention, prevention, harm reduction, and here, I think that the government could do more to give civil society organisations more space, because the drug area is an area where those who suffer, who are consumers of these drugs, are indeed in need of help, and there is always a stronger trust towards civil society organisations than towards any public body. And it also seems, I believe, that in 1999, a very strict amendment to the criminal law book was adopted, which was perhaps the strictest regulation in Europe at the time, which did not bring any result at the time, and the policy that you are currently pursuing in the field of drug policy is certainly a road to a dead end. [[10.50]] The subject itself is not handled properly, the subject itself does not receive enough attention, funding, funding from the Hungarian budget, good professionals have been largely driven away, and the relationship with civil society organisations has also deteriorated, and many Fidesz mayors are specifically pursuing these civil society organisations, while they have and should still have a prominent role in this area. But if we look at the reconnaissance from the other side, which is the job of the police, we also see that if the Hungarian police go to a foreign conference and ask them how many policemen are involved in drug reconnaissance in Hungary, they usually say that they must have forgotten to add a zero to how many people dealt with it. In this sense, sound political and party political goals are not followed by concrete practice, in Hungarian: there is a significant lag in European or world comparison in terms of detection and police work. So we think it would be better to return to the previous - and I put it this way - policy conducted in the period of the Youth and Sport Ministry, led by Tamás Deutsch, because that would lead to a better situation than what you are producing today. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-56	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Lajos Rig applied for a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Let's not mix drugs and psychotropics. In Hungary, the users of hard drugs are still, thanks to God, in a very small proportion, but psychotropic substances and, above all, designer drugs, which are the subject of the next presentation, are becoming more popular among young people. And there was the opportunity, Congressman Mesterházy, to participate in a five-party consultation last week on this, with your faction, the Fidesz fraction and the KDNP fraction. It is not primarily legislation, but socio-political regulation. The rapporteur was Gábor Zacher, who gave shocking figures and said that the use of designer drugs is particularly common among young people. If we say that it is a government responsibility, then I think that all factions should look at themselves first, whether they have done everything they can to solve this problem, which is affecting Hungary, the young Hungarians. There, we should not have talked about politics, we should have talked about a whole social problem and how we're going to solve it. In your constituency, in your constituencies, there are many times that in broad daylight young people are stunned, distraught and not under the influence of alcohol, but wandering from street to street, dizzy by the influence of designer drugs. This is primarily a social policy problem. What solutions can they propose for what social policy problem? This could have been discussed in the five-party negotiations where neither Fidesz, KDNP, nor the socialists came. There were two couples involved. I think that there will be a continuation of this, first of all if you listen to my proposal. In their own constituency, a specialist should be invited to give appropriate information to young people, civilians, adults, parents. Thank you very much, but I will explain this further.
u2017-11-16-58	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács applied for a normal speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it is worth continuing the process, and perhaps we all have the responsibility to say that although the government does have a drug strategy that it adopted in 2013, it is indeed true, my fellow Member Mesterházy, that by 2020 a drug-free Hungary has been targeted, but it seems that, although there is still time, it has failed. This can also be seen from the budgetary resources available. While nearly 1.3 billion forints were available for this purpose in 2004, 300 million in 2013 and nearly 400 million in 2014 and it has not been completed with more money since then; but perhaps the Secretary of State will correct it. That's one of them. So without budgetary resources, it is very difficult to fight it consciously. The second problem is that practically the state has withdrawn from the role of educator and drug prevention in schools in its entirety, while the state has maintained these schools. So, for the most part, it would have been possible, both logistically and organisationally, for the state to perform an effective drug prevention and drug-free activity in schools. And, ladies and gentlemen, you may consider this to be different, but according to some feedback, do you know who has pushed into this gap to engage in drug prevention activities? Well, that scientology, that scientology church, those scientologists who have faced social tension on several occasions because of their data management, their differing opinions on psychiatric patients, and their differing views on the approach to individual diseases. This drug prevention strategy is in a position where we, not only the government, but also us, as representatives, have a responsibility, because the laws that we, we create, must be fit and able to deal with the sociological problems that lie behind drug consumption. For a long time we have also whipped the need for a more restrictive drug-related area of drug use and a much more flexible, more responsive regulation and ban. Every time since 2015, at the end of the year, when the health salad law came in, we said that the list is very good, that it is growing with new materials, but we are still in a constant fight, and we can always act only afterwards, in the wake of the developers, looking for it. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the fact that the government is instigating with its drug strategy announced in 2013, it would be very important for the government to get on this horse correctly, as well as for my fellow Members in the Parliament to push this matter in a direction that can help. Such an initiative was Jobbik's five-party proposal. We have called on everyone and we call on everyone to continue, because we will continue this, in which we have joint responsibility, five-party responsibility, because we will face this sociological problem not only now, but also in the next ten to twenty years, if we do not act effectively, and everyone, regardless of whether there will be Fidesz, MSZP or Jobbik, will be affected by this sociological problem, so it is our shared responsibility now. So I also encourage my fellow Members to try to have further five-party negotiations. Please take part in this, and let's start the process that has slipped into the stem a few times, but it's always dead. I can repeat that we have a joint responsibility in the field of drug strategy to ensure that we really have zero tolerance and a drug-free Hungary before our eyes and follow it to the end. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-11-16-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and ask if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs: One minute.]] Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2017-11-16-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is felt that there is a campaign coming, because what we are talking about can be a topic, but basically a contract should be put into effect. I would therefore like to ask that, if possible, if we do not want to take up much of each other's time, we should stick to the subject, since we will have two other similar proposals in which you will be able to say the same. This is a very simple bill, and we would like to enter into force a treaty, and I ask for your support for this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-11-16-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. It follows a general debate on the draft law on the publication of an amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which was published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/18300. can be identified on the House's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-16-63	Mr President, Dear House, I'm not gonna be too complicated right now. With regard to the legislation listed in the title, eight new substances are added to psychotropic substances. Because of this amendment, we have to amend the law again, as the treaty can enter into force in Hungary if provided for by law. I need your support for this. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[11.00]]
u2017-11-16-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Members have touched on the whole subject here, I would like to add a few additions to this. Statistics are weird, but, after all, statistics show that the use of drugs among young people has decreased by 30 percent, for example, in high school students. Unfortunately, however, the number of people who have tried so-called synthetic drugs is rising. So we agree that, unfortunately, it has moved towards more dangerous substances, even though other substances have been reduced. For example, the government provided HUF 4.7 million to map local drug use, specifically for research into drug use in segmented districts and areas. Unfortunately, there is still little to know about drug use patterns and drugs in some of these isolated settlements. It is important to explore them and to know them so that the appropriate preventive steps can be taken. From 2010 to 14 HUF 1.5 billion was spent by the government, the central budget for drug prevention, and for the period 2015-18, an additional HUF 2.4 billion will be allocated for this purpose. The government is committed to continuing to develop the field of addiction. The basic goal is that those who haven't tried drugs or even psychotropics shouldn't do it. It is also necessary to strengthen, mutatis mutandis, Community activities that serve prevention, as mentioned by my fellow Member. He mentioned the name of Gábor Zacher, who was invited to his constituency. Let me tell you that Gábor Zacher was practically my neighbor in my former constituency, I met him there a lot, and I met him at a lot of his drug prevention lectures. He didn't give such a talk in my current constituency. I too consider this to be very useful, and I would also like to suggest to my fellow Members that this way, this method, is worth trying out. Fidesz supports the adoption of the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-16-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Legény. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-67	Mr. President. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Then I would like to repeat the speech of the Hungarian Socialist Party about an iPad. As I mentioned with regard to the previous proposal, the United Nations Committee on Drugs met on 16 March 2017 and adopted several decisions there, including Resolution 60/4. and 60/11. the number of persons to which the present proposal is based. By these two decisions, several substances are included in Annex II to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. I was included in the list. In Hungary, with the exception of ethylone and the substance XLR-11, those compounds are included in the list of drugs and psychotropic substances 66/2012. Government decree on psychotropic List I. Obviously, the Hungarian Socialist Party also supports this proposal, because, as I said, the fight against drugs and drugs is an important and priority area. We must do everything in our power to ensure that this threat is at the very least peeking at both Hungary and Hungarian society. So we support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Then let's continue with the psychotropics. These are synthetic cannabinoid derivatives and methamphetamine derivatives, which will now be banned. These are herbal and synthetic derivatives with other predatory names, from which, I understand, 120 are currently on the no-fly list, since they have 120 alphas. In Budapest, for example, it changes from street to street, as these drug dealers change its composition, so they change its name, walnut, blue, I don't know what other nicknames are. The danger is that these designer drugs are usually the most widespread among those living in extreme poverty and poverty, in Hungarian, in workers' poverty and extreme poverty. According to KSH data, two and a half million people, 28 percent of them are designer drug users. That's an awfully high number. When they ask drug or designer drug users why they consume these drugs, they say it's because I'm happy at least. And here's the social problem, why you're looking for this. So if she sees at home that Dad's not home, Mom's watching TV shows, she's looking for something to be happy about. This is what we need to prevent, since the consumer value of these is usually 200-300 HUF. Sending these young people away is not the answer. A diversion is required when a 20 gram of material is found on him. Out of these 20 grams, a lot of synthetics can be produced. So 10 micrograms a dose of this, 10 micrograms 200 HUF. Now, if you calculate the amount of 20 grams you can produce, that's a very large amount. What Congressman said, Gábor Zacher is an expert on this. I think he is also the greatest representative of the profession, but he is the one who sees the victims of these drugs on a daily basis, if you can put it that way. After all, not only does it have a health - damaging effect, but, in my humble opinion, it can be fatal. They come from an unidentified source of origin. And the worst part about it is that the post office is the biggest dealer, because they can be obtained online, from abroad, from anywhere at the moment. They only change a molecule, its binding, and it's legalized. The fact that the police are trying to track them down, wrap them up, bring them in, but the drug user and the vendor are out on the street before they write the report. I think that each party has a shared responsibility, and that responsibility is shown in the conduct of such a drug policy. And legislation isn't always enough here. Legislation will not eliminate drug use and psychotropic consumption, no matter how much we tighten it up. The most striking example is the Philippines, where the death penalty is for drug use and sale; 25 years of forced labour in the People's Republic of China. And yet, 8 percent of the people in the Philippines are drug users. So here it has already been proven that tightening up legislation will not prevent this. What's to stop it? I told you the insufferable number that 28 percent of people in extreme poverty use these synthetic drugs. If social inclusion were to go at a pace that is not going on in Hungary right now, the number of these would be reduced. This was supported by Gábor Zacher in his presentation. I think that in 2010, when preventive education on drugs and psychotropic substances ceased, there was a big boom, and that's when young people were looking for these poisons. The Movement for Jobbik Hungary will always support the banning of these substances. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2017-11-16-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State Ónodi-Szűcs has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-16-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm the only one who didn't tell you I knew Gábor Zacher. I know Gábor Zacher, too, so I'm gonna start by saying the same thing. It is an excellent expert, but that is not why I asked for the floor, but to put some data and numbers in its place. The anti-drug strategy has been in place in Hungary since 2013, and I think it is known to everyone. [[11.10]] They asked me the numbers, so I'd like to give you some numbers. So in 2017 there were 318 million HUF in the budget for this kind of prevention purpose, and in 18 there were 518 million HUF for this purpose. Let me add that, in the strategy, we want to be able to intervene both on the supply side and on the supply side, and the strategy identifies 27 points where we should do so. To give you two more numbers, just to make this clear, the EFOP 1.8.7-16 programme has 3 billion forints available for prevention purposes in EFOP 1.8.9-17, which is called "Be a different passion." In this case, HUF 1.9 billion is also available during this period. I think that the government is taking this seriously, and I really think that we all have something to do in this. Thank you for your attention and for your support of the law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. A general debate on the draft law repealing Decree-Law No 16 of 1969 on the publication of the Convention on Health Cooperation between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cuba, signed in Budapest on 15 June 1966, will follow. Government referral T/18303. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-73	Mr President, Dear House, Again, I don't want to keep this House from taking legal action for too long. In fact, the end of a contract of 66 must be sanctioned by the House.2012. On 21 September 2007 the Hungarian party indicated to the Cuban party on the list that, after the content of the contract had not been implemented, we would therefore like to terminate this by mutual agreement. Nearly 5 months later, in January 2013, the Cuban party also indicated on the oral list that it interprets the previous document to the Hungarian government by terminating the contract unilaterally, and in March 2015 the Hungarian party also took note of this on the oral list, so that the House would, by virtue of the law, lead this convention out of its scope. I ask this House to support this exit. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Csenger-ZalánZsolt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, As Minister of State said, the Hungarian-Cuban Convention for Health Cooperation, signed in Budapest in 1966, which was announced by Decree-Law, has now virtually lost its topicality, since today's Hungarian law deals with similar issues not on the basis of rules based on nationality, but on insurance principles, so the convention ended on 18 March 2014 with the agreement of the parties. However, this does not mean that there is no cooperation between the two countries in the field of health, cooperation agreements between the institutions have been signed recently. Dear fellow Members, Allow me, however, to add a few points to Cuban relations as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó visited the Republic of Cuba just recently, where seven cooperation agreements were signed by Cuban and Hungarian companies within the framework of the business forum. The Cuban economy is moving towards modernisation, which offers great opportunities for Hungarian companies. In the increasingly open market, Hungarian companies can set their feet if they act in time. As regards participation in Cuban modernisation, Hungary also benefits from the fact that the European Union does not maintain sanctions against Cuba, but is also the largest investor and trading partner of the Central American country. As an EU member, Hungary is in a favourable position to promote the economic interests of domestic companies. However, Hungarian companies must appear on the Cuban market in time to acquire significant market shares in the opening and modernisation economy. There are currently five areas where Cuban needs and Hungarian capacities and capabilities can meet. One of them is the water industry, given that the economic performance of Cuba is largely determined by the development of tourism, with which current infrastructure is still less able to keep up. Hungarian water industry knowledge, technology and infrastructure development also have a strong demand in Cuba. Another possible area of cooperation is agriculture and the food industry, as Cuban production technologies need strong development. The next area is research and development in the health sector, and Cuba also places great emphasis on this and is looking for opportunities for European cooperation. In the use of renewable energy sources, there are also significant opportunities for Hungarian companies and Hungarian technology in Cuba. Finally, in Cuba, the amended Economic Cooperation Agreement, which regulates cooperation in all sectors, has been signed. Well, my fellow Members, this underlines that the abolition of an outdated law, which has now become obsolete, does not mean that relations between Hungary and Cuba are not developing dynamically. Thank you for your attention, and Fidesz supports the bill, as appropriate. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Legény. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Then I would like to repeat the speech of the Hungarian Socialist Party on the iPad. According to the bill before us, which consists of only two paragraphs, Decree-Law No 16 of 69 on the publication of the Convention on Health Cooperation between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Government of the Republic of Cuba on Health Cooperation was repealed. Mr Secretary of State mentioned in his expozee that the Hungarian party initiated this in 2012 to terminate this agreement by means of a joint agreement, as a reason, it was said that one of the basic objectives of the Convention on health cooperation had not been implemented for a long time. This otherwise concluded agreement with the Republic of Cuba had several articles and, pursuant to Article 5, nationals of one Contracting Party temporarily residing in the other Contracting State would have received free medical emergency care. In view of the fact that this agreement on the termination of the Convention has been reached between the parties, the Convention has ceased to apply under the rules of international law and it is therefore necessary to repeal the Legislative Decree declaring the Convention. We would, of course, understand and accept this, but it is a question to us that, as I mentioned earlier, both parties, within the meaning of Article 5 of the Convention, grant free healthcare to citizens of the other Party suffering from acute illness or requiring permanent medical intervention who are temporarily resident in their territory. So, as a matter of fact, what would then happen to these patients, who would normally stay primarily as tourists or on business trips in the other state. So the question is, what will happen to these people? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My speech will not be worth a havana, because it will not last that long. I think that since, in recent times and so far, they have not been able to fill this agreement with substance and both parties have asked for its termination, there is one thing that Parliament has to support. And how the emergency care of Hungarian citizens who are temporarily resident abroad is implemented, I think that everyone who arrives as a tourist, whether in Cuba or in another state, will have to make responsible travel insurance, liability insurance, and then be entitled to any benefits, and will be reimbursed by their insurance company. The Movement for Jobbik Hungary will support it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[11.20]]
u2017-11-16-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I'll wait, but Congressman Attila Mesterházy was registered in writing. Accordingly, I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2017-11-16-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I didn't know if I was going to be a written commentator. I agree with what has been said here, my better fellow Member, to the extent that, if all is true, the Cuban party disagreed with this, at least if I understood the reasoning correctly, the Cuban party interpreted this as a unilateral termination, so that both countries did not ask for the termination of this convention, but this is a detailed question. Overall, insurance companies are actually solving this problem today. I have a question. Hungary still has a contract with the Soviet Union, also dated from the 1960s. If I remember correctly, that's the matter of pensioners. If the government is in such momentum, when do you intend to resolve or plan a solution to the government's plans for cooperation on retirement benefits in this international treaty in connection with an agreement with the Soviet Union signed in 1966 or.67 or.63, or is this a specific position of the government limited to a Cuban issue that it does not wish to place such bilateral contracts on the agenda? We have just heard from the Foreign Affairs Committee, by the way, the new Cuban ambassador, and it will surely arrive in Cuba next year with this package. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
u2017-11-16-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill to amend certain health and health insurance laws will follow up until closure. Government referral T/18319. can be accessed by everyone on the House's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'm in front of you with a salad law, as I do almost every quarter or six months. If you'll excuse me, I wouldn't be dealing with the laws that are the Ákr. of a technical nature due to its modification. I wouldn't waste your time with these. However, what I would like to mention in the exposé, I could group it around three packages. In the first group, I would like to mention those which would facilitate the administration of citizens and institutions. The first of these would be to say that if, in relation to the proof of incapacity for work, the search engine misses the five-day deadline, then it will not be necessary to immediately convene the Budapest Committee of District Offices acting as medical examiners, but it will be possible to issue this certificate within 30 days. We would like to speed up the administration and reduce the workload. Another administrative relief would be that, at the request of the nuclear medicine department of the professional college, for radiopharmaceuticals, which are a special pharmaceutical category, it is not in fact necessary for manufacturers to apply for a marketing authorisation for the product from this point on. These are unique medications, and we don't see much point in that. It would also facilitate administration that if pharmacists may want to renew their pharmacy or any other force majeure situation arise, the pharmacist himself may request the suspension of its operation. Only the authorities had the opportunity to do so before. Let me stop here for a moment, because I think we have been able to establish a very effective cooperation with the Pharmacy Chamber and the Pharmacy Society over the past few years. As a consequence of this regulation, this is also the amendment of the law. I think it is a great success that, as of 1 January 2017, in every pharmacy, every pharmacy operating in Hungary, the Hungarian pharmacy's ownership ratio has increased by more than 50 percent. We had to come back very far, we had to fight a very big battle, but this success is definitely due to our ability to establish our position in cooperation with the profession. The second package, which I would like to mention, is the legislative amendments aimed at improving patient safety and security of supply. These include the fact that the electronic health space has been launched in data management. In this context, we have put a few refinements in order to ensure that only the person who needs this information is able to access it, and only those who need it if justified. It is also intended to protect patients' safety and security of supply that previously the regulation was not entirely clear. If a person had to order any restrictive measures during his stay, it was not clear how many hours before that was to be confirmed by a doctor. The regulation would like to be clear now. The doctor will need to confirm any such measures within two hours. I don't think I have to tell you why this is important today. It is also intended to ensure the safety of patients if a person has multiple exams or has multiple qualifications, then it is no longer sufficient to obtain competence only for the first time, but must be certified for each further examination. It is also in the interest of patient safety that we want to increase the powers of OGYÉI in order to be able to act on exports of counterfeit medicines and counterfeit medicines, and in this connection we would like to give you the license to allow OGYÉI to look into customs secrets, because without it, a procedure is very difficult to go through. OGYÉI often suffers from suspicion, but it cannot look into these customs secrets. I would like to stress that we would like to give only this licence to a sufficient extent, otherwise we would not want any other authorisation, which would be only suitable for the possibility of evacuating anyone in Hungary. You'll only be able to use it with sufficient suspicion and to a sufficient extent. It is very important that, after institutional integrations have gone down, from the point of view of farm management, the EMMI needs the authorisation to manage the farm numbers both in the course of the reimbursement procedures and in the course of other E Fund use and control activities. That's what we're asking for in the law. Let me turn to the last package, which, I think, is not only a gesture, but a binding element of the current salad laws. To date, it has been possible for colleagues working abroad and participating in diplomatic bodies to pay for 85 percent of their treatment abroad, or, if they wanted to return home, the cost of domestic treatment and the cost of transport back and forth, if they did not exceed this level, this could be chosen by our colleague working on the diplomatic body. That's what we want to extend to every soldier who's also out on duty, paying them for their work. I would like to ask you to support the amendments that we have tabled. I stress that this either reduces bureaucracy or increases patient safety or expands the possibilities of soldiers working abroad. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-16-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is József Kovács, our fellow Member. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I would just like to focus on the bill that is now before us, given that the subject of the current general debate is a salad law. [[11.30]] The law containing such comprehensive health changes usually comes before Parliament every spring and autumn session and, despite proposing amendments to several laws, contains clarification in a number of areas, it contains very important questions. This proposal initiates the amendment of nine health-related and other health-related laws in total. Opens the Annex XI of 1991 on health and administrative activities a law, the amendment of which contains a definition of general administrative order and, on the other hand, the delegation provision allows rules relating to the administrative procedure of public health bodies belonging to HM to be laid down in a government regulation other than that of Ákr. The draft includes the 1997 XLVII on the management and protection of health and related personal data. By amending law, it clarifies the regulation regarding the processing of data by the treating physician, so that the treating physician cannot transmit or use the data for any purpose other than what it allows the law to do with the processing of health data. The law is 22. §2 of the Act provides the EMMI with the possibility of managing and transmitting the farm number and related health data in relation to the tasks to be included in the Ministry of Human Resources in the context of the restructuring of the background institutions. The 1997 CLIV on health. It is necessary to amend law of a legal nature in relation to the application for a so-called good name certificate because the law currently refers back to a non-existent provision. The amendment also makes it clear that, in the case of psychiatric patients, the approval of restrictive measures by a doctor should take place within two hours, as Mr Secretary of State has already mentioned. It is also very important to clarify that there is an obligation to carry out further training for all medical qualifications with which the healthcare worker has not been involved in patient care in the last eight years, i.e. if the healthcare professional has already been registered with another health professional, it does not allow him to participate in patient care without performing the training needed for registration. LXXXIII of 1997 on compulsory health insurance benefits The addition of a new paragraph to the Act provides for the possibility that, if the insured person slips out of the very short five-day period, this has already been said, the Chief Medical Officer of the Government Office may back down for 30 days. XCV 2005 on human medicinal products and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market. By amending law, in the context of preventing the entry of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal supply chain, it will be possible for the authority, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health, to receive the permissions which are already available in other procedures, such as the suspension of distribution, against non-compliance pharmaceutical manufacturers. The increase in the number of companies involved in industrial poppy sales justifies the fact that the authority, responsible for monitoring and monitoring obligations under international conventions on drugs, knows exactly which enterprises and what part of the activities in the country are carried out with this substance. This can only be achieved by making the notification compulsory and by keeping the register. It is also important to include metal sealing, as it can identify and trace exactly what poppy material has been sown. Following this will also greatly contribute to the effectiveness of the government's controls. In order to ensure a clear exercise of the law, it is necessary to set out the legislation whereby the marketing authorisation holder of the medicinal product receiving public funding is required to ensure that it is provided for on a continuous basis by the distributor. XCVIII of 2006 on the general rules for the provision of safe and economical pharmaceutical and medical aid and the distribution of medicinal products. By amending the Act, the operator's request, and not for sanctioning purposes, will result in the possibility of suspension, with a maximum duration of one year. If, after one year, he does not notify the re-operation, his installation permit shall be revoked. Under the current provisions, if a public pharmacy with a higher level of service in a municipality starts operating, the authorisation of the branch drugstore should be revoked. The Government is authorised to specify the criteria for the tendering procedure for the establishment of a branch drugstore in the settlement or settlement in a government decree. As regards other amendments to health-related laws, I would like to mention that the field of accident reimbursement procedures and the national coordination of health insurance professional checks has been transferred to the EMMI as the successor to the OEP, so it is necessary to allow the Ministry to manage the number of property in order to carry out the tasks related to the reimbursement procedures. It is also added that the purpose of the transmission may be to monitor the performance of the health service, to verify its use and to coordinate the monitoring. The so-called salad law proposal before us therefore provides clarification in a number of areas by opening a number of laws and relies on practical experience. We may also say that the salad laws mostly contain technical and legislative harmonisation amendments, but at the same time we can see that the amendments we are discussing here, in addition to their importance, serve the safe functioning of the care and healthcare systems and the benefit of patients. On this basis, the Fidesz fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Several speakers here have just passed this law as a salad law, regulates a wide variety of branches and branches of our health system and various health insurance laws. Secretary of State has raised the issue of security of supply. Then let me get out of here. I simply do not understand that if you are talking about security of supply, then why are you not providing it, I would like to give you a very specific example, the medicines and the resources needed to cure cancer patients. The second cause of death in Hungary is cancer after cardiovascular diseases, and if we look at national and international statistics, we see that the number of patients who died of cancer in Hungary has not decreased since the 1990s. That's 30-33,000 people, but it's definitely over 30,000. Just to be able to place it, it's about the disappearance of a town of Szekszárd's magnitude every year. Compared to this, if we look at the American health system, which is one of the most expensive health systems in the world, we can almost go through all the leading causes of death, i.e. cancer, lung cancer, colon cancer, prostate cancer or breast cancer, and we see that in the United States, we have succeeded in many cases by 30 percent, 40 percent or even 50 percent over the past 10-15-20 years, thus reducing the number of deaths due to cancer. [[11.40]] Meanwhile, there has been no change in Hungary. If, somewhere in one of the cancers, as many people die in 1994-95, then it can almost be interpreted as a result. It is perfectly clear and understandable why. One of the reasons is that prevention, i.e. the costs and opportunities of screening, and the increasingly effective provision of medicine in this area, is also being extended, thanks to God. In English, the early detection of the disease and the effective cure greatly reduces the number of such diseases and unfortunate deaths. In addition, of course, the various information campaigns that draw attention to healthy lifestyles and risk factors all contribute to this. I ask you, when you're talking about security of supply, why don't you put these questions on the agenda? Why don't you provide the resources for this? You don't want to give patients over the age of 74 any more treatment because she's too old to be treated for cancer? Is it because a cancer patient who doesn't have a lot of time left that doesn't want to contribute to improving his quality of life because it costs too much money for the budget? Or are they saying that only treatments that are cost-effective can be used? The world is going in a completely different direction, Mr. Secretary. As I have just said, the world is moving in the direction of providing these patients with effective, personalized medical care. I am simply shocked, and I am under the influence because I had a budget committee meeting this week, where my colleague László Szakács and I tabled a related amendment proposal - and also last week - and the Fidesz faction swept these initiatives without any discussion. Here we talked about drug prevention and so on in today's debate about the overall social interest. Please, cancer is perhaps one of the biggest problems in the field of health in Hungary. And if there are so many billion forints, we hear nothing else when we listen to your representatives in the Committee on Budgets, the Economic Committee, how fantastically well the country is doing, how strong Hungary is, that there is finally money for everything, because in the time of socialist governments it was not so, but now you have fixed it, so there is no money for cancer patients or hospice services in Hungary? ! Can a stadium cost twice as much? ! But a patient over the age of 65 or 74 should no longer receive medical care? ! Who invented this animal...! What if his family were in this situation? ! Then how would you solve this problem? ! Would that still be the right decision? ! If he's worth his time, is that what he's done now? ! Or if someone's parents and grandparents are in a situation like this, and they spend the value of their entire family home on it, because it costs $40 million for this kind of care, and public health doesn't help? ! Please be ashamed of yourselves. That's what we should be spending resources on, not on stadiums and posters, and I don't know what. And I understand that you will stand up and tell me at the end, Mr. Secretary, that this was not the law. I don't care if that's not what the law was about. Each time it is possible to comment on this in Parliament, we will say that we should ensure fair, personalized care for cancer patients! Here's to spending money on prevention. Here's to spending money on early detection. Because it's the right thing to do! Not because you're fidesz, and we're MSZP or whatever you believe in, but because that's what honor demands of all Members. And if nothing else, think about your friend's situation. I hope your family didn't have such a problem. More money for this, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-16-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Szászfalvi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The salad law, which lies before us, proposes to amend ten laws. Allow me not to go into all of them in detail, as there are a number of proposals in the bill that contain technical clarification. I would like to draw our attention to some major amendments in this comment. XLVII of 1997 on the management and protection of health and related personal data Laws will be amended. The draft clarifies the regulation with regard to the processing of data by the treating physician in the event that the health insurance body provides the patient's health care data to the treating physician by electronic consultation, i.e. in this case, the treating physician may not transmit or use such data for any purpose other than that which the law allows in relation to the treatment of health data. The Act provides for the possibility of managing and transmitting the farm number and related health data in relation to the tasks to be included in the Ministry of Human Resources in the context of the restructuring of the background institutions. The effective operation of the GP indicator system and the effective financing of benefits in kind require a supplement to the law, given that, in the absence of such data, the performance of certain indicators cannot be adequately measured. The second important package of changes is the annual LXXXIII on compulsory health insurance. Law on the provision of long-term external service personnel and their close relatives abroad is affected by the regulation that 85 per cent of the cost of health care that is reasonably used abroad is reimbursed by the health insurance company. However, if the combined cost of medical care, return and return in Hungary is less than 85 percent of the cost of treatment abroad, the health insurance company will fully reimburse the cost of travel, return and return. The supplement to the law provides for the possibility for the insured person to prove his incapacity for work retroactively for 30 days by the chief expert of the government office. This amendment may substantially reduce the administrative burden of the chief medical committees of the district offices acting as medical experts. The next package of such amendments is the annual CLIV on health. amendment of the law. It is also necessary to make a technical amendment to the application for proof of good repute, as the law currently refers back to a non-existent provision, as we have already heard. Based on the experience of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights during his inspection, the Commission found that Article 10 of the Act had been amended. § 4 () to (5) provides generally for restrictive measures affecting patients, according to which, in the absence of permanent medical supervision, a temporary nurse may impose the restriction. The restriction must be notified immediately to the treating physician, who must approve it in writing within 16 hours. The restriction must be notified without delay to the physician, who must approve it within 2 hours; it is not clear from the current rules that, in the case of psychiatric patients, if the doctor is unavailable, the restriction should be approved by the physician within 2 or 16 hours. The proposal for a safe patient care clarifies the frequent life situation when a medical worker, otherwise included in the operational record, would like to request the inclusion in the operational register of a professional qualification with which he has not participated in patient care in the last 8 years. Therefore, if it is clarified that there is an obligation to carry out further training for all medical qualifications with which the healthcare worker has not been involved in patient care in the last 8 years, i.e. if the healthcare professional is already registered with another medical professional, it does not give him the authority to participate in patient care without performing the training needed for registration. The following amendment package is set out in Annex XXV of 2000 on chemical safety. amendment of the law. [[11.50]] - paragraphs 5 and 5 of this Decision provide for general restrictive measures in respect of patients, according to which, in the absence of permanent medical supervision, they may impose a temporary restriction on nurse. The restriction must be notified immediately to the treating physician, who must approve it in writing within 16 hours. The restriction must be notified without delay to the physician, who must approve it within 2 hours; it is not clear from the current rules that, in the case of psychiatric patients, if the doctor is unavailable, the restriction should be approved by the physician within 2 or 16 hours. The proposal for a safe patient care clarifies the frequent life situation when a medical worker, otherwise included in the operational record, would like to request the inclusion in the operational register of a professional qualification with which he has not participated in patient care in the last 8 years. Therefore, if it is clarified that there is an obligation to carry out further training for all medical qualifications with which the healthcare worker has not been involved in patient care in the last 8 years, i.e. if the healthcare professional is already registered with another medical professional, it does not give him the authority to participate in patient care without performing the training needed for registration. The following amendment package is set out in Annex XXV of 2000 on chemical safety. amendment of the law. (11.50) XXV of 2000 on chemical safety Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The joint amendment to the part of the Act on access to customs secrecy allows district offices to have access to data imported from or exported from third countries in their chemical safety checks. The amendment would facilitate the monitoring of the proper implementation of EU regulations and cooperation between authorities. The fifth is such an important package of amendments, to be highlighted for my part, on medicines for human use and other XCV 2005 on the amendment of the laws governing the pharmaceutical market. amendment of the law. A Commission Delegated Regulation on the safety features to be placed on medicinal products is intended to prevent the entry of counterfeit medicinal products into the legal supply chain. By amending the law, it will be possible for the authority, the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food Health, to receive the permissions that are already available in other procedures, such as the suspension of distribution, against non-compliance with the obligation. Before me, my fellow Member, József Kovács, has already discussed changes in the provisions on industrial poppy. I don't want to repeat that. A new provision for patient care is to allow radiopharmaceuticals, in particular PET radiomedicines, to be produced and used without the need for manufacturers to obtain and maintain a marketing authorisation for this product. These radiopharmaceuticals are usually produced at the treatment site and traditionally cannot be marketed due to their short half-life and cannot provide patients with the most suitable preparations in the absence of authorised products. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, there is another important amendment to this salad law, as many of us have already called this package of laws. XCVIII of 2006 on the general rules for the provision of safe and economical pharmaceutical and medical aid and the distribution of medicinal products. The amendment of the law, which is a provision facilitating the application of the law and represents a positive change for the parties concerned. During the operation of the pharmacies, the authority has in many cases found that the operation of the pharmacy is impossible for several months, due to the modernisation, reconstruction of the pharmacist's building, or possibly during the period between the termination of the rental contract and the actual realisation of the transfer. In the absence of a suitable building or equipment, the operation cannot be ensured. It is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility of suspension at the operator's request and not for sanctioning purposes, with a maximum duration of one year. If, after one year, it does not announce the re-operation, the installation permit shall be revoked; or the government shall be authorised to specify the criteria for the tendering procedure for the establishment of a branch drugstore in the municipality or settlement in a government decree. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed bill, the legislative package, is supported by KDNP, and we ask the other factions to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the speech, I gathered a few points, or some questions, where it may arise that we need a little explanation beyond the justification of what the legislator's intention is and what I am trying to say. Otherwise, I am trying to refrain from other circumstances of political nature or political debate, which would otherwise be good to say, because it is an important field for all of us in this House to discuss our common affairs, perhaps to discuss and discuss the political criticism of the current government in health care, or to discuss individual decisions in political matters. But the thing is, perhaps this bill is not the way to do it, we should leave it to other political forums. However, I would certainly like to make so much clarification about what was said here in connection with Attila Mesterházy's speech. Our fellow Member said that, in essence, cancer mortality statistics have remained unchanged since the 1990s, and he said that about 33,000 people, 30,000 people, are dying from this disease. The thing - and I'm not talking about protecting the government, I'm talking about putting statistics back in place - is that you're right, the numbers are wrong, and the situation is not good, but it's a little better than what you said. However, it is true that Hungary has been the least able to reduce the indicators of cancer mortality since 1990. The rate per 100,000 inhabitants started from 330 when the regime changed. By the way, the Czech Republic started in the same place, with the same data, and while Hungary has not managed to keep it down, it has managed to keep it down to 280, that is to say, 28 thousand people, while the Czech Republic also manages to reduce cancer deaths from 330 to 220. This shows that we are not sure that we are on the right track not only in diagnostics but also in therapeutic areas. Perhaps one of Hungary's greatest failures is in this. Otherwise, the causes of cancer are the numerous environmental impacts, and we could practically list 10-15 impacts and circumstances and indicators that can determine what the problem is; Hungary is losing. But to get to the point, and that would have been just a statistical clarification, because it is very important to talk about the matter. I am speaking to my fellow Member, Zsolt Legény, who may be here on behalf of Mr Mesterházy, but I would be happy to repeat it again. It is important to deal with this issue, and it is also important in the field of topical policy, but it does not fall under this issue, regardless of whether the issue of extempore drugs or preparations is dealt with by the bill, but not at this level, so that we can have a debate based on huge OECD statistics or on the work of the Hungarian government or on the work of the governments of the time, so let us go back to the bill itself. Overall, which is important to highlight, is the first practical adjustment to the ESTE, which means a limitation, a narrowing of who can look at it and how it can pass on and with what authority it can manage the data that belongs to patients. You may also be lucky that there is another tightening in it now, because from a bank point of view, they call the system a 'A', although I would put a parentheses here, perhaps Mr. Secretary of State knows better than me; it is good that they didn't just add a token to the signing card. So bank security can be attacked on many levels, but one thing is certain, if there is perhaps a weak end point to this system, it is precisely the safety of GPs and the security of IT systems in GPs. It is very easy for us to see that the general physician has access not only to the data of his own patients, if I understand the way the system works, but to anyone whose farm number he knows. So any kind of data theft - and then I'll give you a very simple example - can be done by taking advantage of the security of some general practitioners, if not a massive data theft, so it doesn't take a hundred thousand in a minute, two minutes, but it uses these data in a persistent, long-term, longer period of time. Well, by the way, this legislative amendment or limitation may make the position a little simpler or a little more defendable. Mr Secretary of State, I obviously do not know much about this, of course, there is confidence in the State Secretariat or the ÁEK, although it is said that the Ministry of Interior should now be more responsible in this case or to draw his attention to such a question, since he is now practically the owner of it. But one thing is for sure, I am pushing and saying that, in relation to the ESTE, we should always be clear about the subject, because this can be ruined once, the confidence in the population, which users have. If we start off on the wrong foot, if they start off on the wrong foot, and the government starts off on the wrong foot, then there will be huge uncertainty, huge distrust, and all the positive opportunities and outbursts that lie in the EST, we'll tear them down at the same time, and then we won't be able to fix these problems. That's why it's important to deal with the ESTE. I would ask the Secretary of State not to take this as a political attack, as a critical comment with a positive intention, because these critical comments do not come out of the minds of politicians, but rather the profession brings them to politicians, who either do not succeed or cannot keep in touch with the government at some level, so they seek their own form to tell their problems, and they come from here in practice. [[12.00]] What is another criticism, and this is an older criticism, there is also a transitional provision in this regard, a reduction in bureaucracy and the transfer of health institutions. You can see it now, again in this salad law, there are the corrective provisions concerning the restructuring of NEAK, OEP. Once again, this shows that it has succeeded or managed to tap into a structure, otherwise a functioning structure, which brings about a lot of other legislative tasks, and is completely unnecessary, for example, in the work of the State Secretariat, and it is completely unnecessary for NEAK to do its work, especially with a relatively small number of people working there, unfortunately leaving the former OEP. So we're standing here completely unnecessary, and we've managed to create an AEK where maybe now there's barely any hope of a thousand people working. This may not have been the right way, and it may not have been the right way for the government to cut red tape. However, Jobbik has supported a large part of these reform proposals, if, by the way, a opposition party can intervene in the right of organisation of the current government. But it's just a critical observation of the situation that has been brought here. I can't judge how important and good it is to issue medical certificates backwards, which is essentially a matter of trust. It is logical, of course, that if a medical committee is to be convened immediately after five days, a group of people having a serious job and a higher level of work must be convened on such a banal issue, of course it means a system that is inoperable or difficult to operate. So if the current amendment is a solution to this, so that it can be demonstrated here for 30 days that a government-office expert who can prove incapacity for work will act as chief physician, then we will sign it and, of course, this will be eligible. If this is the birth of life, then so be it. Such feedback obviously does not come to opposition parties, but the government may see these problems where they can be solved. The other is a constant problem, and we're going to see him again, a matter of psychiatric care. There is also a part in this legislation that is modified by the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the objections he raises. Almost every year, we return to the fact that we see a constant criticism and constant problem in psychiatric care, both on the supply side and on the exercise of rights. It would perhaps be the only right solution here, and this is also a positive criticism that it would be time to take a full look at the therapeutic options of psychiatric care, institutional opportunities, create the legal background of this, and create regulations that are fully linked to the treatment and are in line with the legal system, the rights and obligations system. Because what we see now is that what doctors do with their own duty and responsibility and their own rights and obligations is often in conflict with patients' rights, and with the fulfilment of patients' rights in the constitution or other fundamental laws. This should be brought into unity, so that it is not that there is a broken, completely partitioned and often bad practice psychiatric treatment, but that there should be a unified, modern, truly effective psychiatric care, where you should not look at the hours, the days, you should not give each other permissions, but everyone has a completely simple and clear mandate, you have a duty and you have a right. So we need a coded approach to the whole psychiatric care, just because we are sure of one thing: the psych ward is constantly increasing, precisely because a lot of border areas are starting to fall within the scope of psychiatric and psychiatric care. We're also having a big problem with psychiatric doctors, because there are practically very few of them, and they should be doing a very wide range of activities. A general, full-knowledge professional may not exist, so specialize in these professions as well. And if we see that in the context of the legislative environment - especially with special attention being paid to the enforcement of patients' rights in this area - this area is in a bad legal environment, then it will be nothing but a completely dysfunctional psychiatric treatment, which, I believe, has one of the worst indicators in Hungary, because the results of psychiatric care, accessibility at European level, may always be the worst. If somewhere, this must be improved by an effective change of legislation, and this is not only the responsibility of the State Secretary, but also the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, for example. That could be improved. Which is perhaps the last point that I feel the Secretary of State mentioned in relation to the powers of OGYÉI because we have previously been violent critics of the expansion of the powers of OGYÉI, which was the scope of the course-kutorial and therefore of the investigative action, and in this context our position has not changed, so we still see that there are authorities that could control these works, these activities, that were the right options for both judicial and law enforcement and investigative bodies. However, this is not the obstacle, or there is absolutely no obstacle to the adoption of this legislation. And it occurred to me to have a general political debate about it, and to talk about the problems of the EEST, either because of the current bill, or about the failed public procurement at the ÁEK, which makes the Secretary of State concerned, or even because of the narrowing of therapy in cancer therapies, but I do not think this is the forum. I wish we had the opportunity to discuss these more widely, but let's leave it to the political genres that happen here every Monday or early afternoon or late afternoon. I believe that, however, we can very likely accept this bill as a permanent critic of the government or in disagreement with its health policy, since it contains adjustments that have been made largely in the everyday needs of the population and need to be adapted to allow health care to function smoothly or much more effectively even in its current state. So thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-16-92	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. From the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Lány applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't get my comment from the Soroses on iPad, but I will, of course, present this on iPad. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] The bill before us shows the fidesz failure of health legislation. In a small part, because errors that were wrong in the Hungarian legal system 11 months ago are being corrected, but in a larger part because the proposal contains unclear, too broad powers, under which the government can regulate any administrative procedure with its regulation, if the body is otherwise carrying out epidemiological tasks. In addition, the designation of the Ministry as a data controller for health data is an astonishing reverse. It creates a legal situation whereby health data can be accessed by anyone within the Ministry and, in addition, in order to examine compliance with the rules for ordering economic pharmaceuticals, medical aids and medical care, it can also provide a legal basis for the State Secretariats to access the data without otherwise treating them for the benefit of care. However, the proposal goes further and lies before us as a confession of the bankruptcy of drug purchases over the last seven years. On the one hand, the responsibility for the purchase of medicinal products seems to be entirely imposed on the manufacturers and distributors of medicinal products and on the other hand, it provides for conditions that must be taken into account, which raises a number of questions. Does the pharmacist have a duty to ensure that, even in the event of a sudden increase in the demand for medicinal products, the amount of the medicinal product requested by the patient is guaranteed without a public request? In addition, the fact that the government requires manufacturers to notify that they are unable to provide continuous care suggests that the government has no idea how much medicine it can deliver to citizens during a given period. [[12.10]] The Fidesz government has once again demonstrated with this proposal that it is unable to stick to its own concept. As one of the main reasons for the establishment of government offices, it was said that everyday administrative tasks were being pushed down to regional government bodies from the Ministry level, but the integration of the OEP into the EMMI made it clear that these plans were being crossed over in this area. This proposal only further strengthens this paradigm shift when it designates the Ministry as the controller for everyday data management tasks. The proposal shows well the government's confusion with regard to Hungarian health. It is trying to correct errors that have been part of the legal system for 11 months and which have been created by the health legislation of Fidesz, which clearly indicates that, in the course of health legislation, the government is not able to implement the changes it has initiated with sufficient precision. Fidesz has once again demonstrated that citizens' privacy is being ignored at every possible moment. In addition to the processing title giving the possibility of subjective interpretation, it clearly creates a situation that could give rise to abuse. In addition, it is feared that this proposal is the next step towards Fidesz setting up a system of individual applications instead of speeding up the authorisation of medicinal products, which is not only more costly but also longer, and we have always said, mutatis mutandis, that what is not a general procedural rule, but where individual cases are being assessed, would indeed be an opportunity to abuse. Understandably, as you have already mentioned as a keynote speaker, my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy, we do not support the bill, and I can only confirm that. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to speak further. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-16-95	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start with the less emotional part of it, because maybe then I can finish my speech without any emotional freakout. With regard to Jobbik, may I say, Mr President, that if we are talking about the ESZT, and if we are talking about the space, and we are talking about the farm management, then you should consider the fact that this is a security level 5 system, which is exciting because - let's take an example - if someone can go into the paper carton today, because they have a key to it, no one can actually tell what the worker in the inside, colleague, had access to and what he saw inside the cardboard box. However, every transaction within the ESZT is logged, not only when something has been written in the file, but when someone has looked at it. And what's really cool about this development is that the patient can look at his chart when he looked at it, so he can see that if he sees something that might have had access to his data if he didn't have access to it - whether it's a ministry, whether we're talking about a doctor or anyone else - then he can report it, and the authority will deal with them. That's as safe as it gets, in my opinion. Let's add that, of course, there is never a good enough compromise in safety, there is always a better one, but the possibility that the patient, the owner of the data, is the controller of his data, who sees who has access to what... - no one has had the opportunity to do so before, and today this is available. Therefore, these concerns are not, in my opinion, real. Let me also add that, when we are concluded that legislation needs to be amended subsequently, let me add that there are a lot of changes in regulations in this package that we have now had to go through because of changes in one of the other laws. So it's a pretty strong setup of cases that it's all because of integration. The Akr. There is also a need for changes due to changes in the IMS and, for example, to change the IMS legislation, so I would also like this to be put in its place. By the way, I agree that it will be worth reviewing the entire legislative scope of psychiatric care. I think that we are making a rather large package in this matter, and I am not sure that we need to talk about it today, but if you are wondering where we are in this work, my office is open and we can agree on this. Mr. Zsolt Legány just went out, but, Congressman, I hope you can give me what I'd like to say. [[Attila Mesterházy: Yes.]] I am shocked that we are trying to protect pharmaceutical interests here in Parliament's benches, when, by the way, our job is to protect patients' interests. The provision we are talking about is that, after there are central receptions in Europe now, that is, the holder of the licence may not be a company registered in Hungary, but it may be a company registered elsewhere or in Brussels, the supplier of medicinal products must instead stand by the holder. That's all it is and nothing more. And then let's get back to the oncological hysteria, because I have to say, this is extremely untrue from my point of view. [[Attila Mesterházy: Careful with the word hysteria, Mr. Secretary of State...]] I think that the issue of credibility on this subject is a very important issue. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I worked at the hospital where you decided to send 600 people. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] So if anyone has anything to do with this, if anyone's involved in this, then I think I am. And for the question of credibility, a very important fact is who says what and what they say. There's been destruction before 2010, and since 2010, we've been building health care, the one you destroyed. [[Attila Mesterházy: That! Sure.]] Compared to 2010, if you look at it, if you're interested in the fact, you'd be interested in destroying the trust of the patients. [[Attila Mesterházy: How can I destroy it if you're so good?!.]] Then you can see that the number of hospice beds has doubled compared to 2010. If you're interested in what's on the CT, on the MRI issue, I can also tell you about that. And I can see now when you will be asking me why, for example, in Budapest there are not as many radiotherapy devices as are already available in the countryside, and which is otherwise higher than the OECD average, because you had to spend all the central resources on the subway. [[Attila Mesterházy: And stadiums!]] If all this money hadn't been lost from Hungary, there might have been just enough equipment and equipment in Budapest. [[Attila Mesterházy: To Progress...]] ♪ And speaking of medicine ♪ [[Attila Mesterházy: 200 billion to the Puskás Stadium, at the top...]] You might also be interested to know that at the end of last year, we have adopted 15 new therapy products...
u2017-11-16-96	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, I'll stop you for a minute. Congressman Mesterházy [[Attila Mesterházy: Yes, Mr. President.]] With all due respect, I ask you to let the Secretary of State tell you his closing statement. [[Attila Mesterházy: Don't lie!]] Congressman, I'm warning you. I have to warn you according to the rules of the house. Don't force me to be excluded from the debate. Here you go.
u2017-11-16-97	I don't want to go down to the standard that's happening in this thing right now. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] It's enough for someone to rely on the facts and look at the numbers that I didn't put together, but they can be found on a bunch of websites. I wouldn't mind if they prepared at expert level and used their short-term policy goals for the benefit of patients. Thank you very much for your attention and for your support of the law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. I've been informed that Mr. Secretary of State is requesting a five-minute recess. [[Dr. Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs: Two minutes will be enough...]] He's requesting a two-minute technical break, so I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. I would ask my fellow Members, if possible, not to go outside so that we can continue the debate with the next item on the agenda. [[It's a short break.]] [[12.20]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the amendment of certain cultural and sporting laws and of certain related laws until closure. Government referral T/18314. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. I give the floor to State Secretary Tünde Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House of Representatives, The bill amending certain laws for cultural and sporting purposes, as well as certain related laws, proposes to amend ten laws, of which the most extensive amendment is CIX of 2011 on the Hungarian Academy of Arts. It concerns the law. It is significantly amended by CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Law, too. However, in addition to the above, the additional amendments are small and concern one or two sections of the law in question. Most of these are aimed at implementing legislative obligations resulting from legislative changes or improving minor enforcement problems. Allow me to explain in more detail the essential content of the amendments to each bill. The elements of the bill aimed at amending the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Arts primarily propose an academic initiative to amend the MMA Act in response to the practical experience and needs of the MMA public body, its organizational life over the past five years. Perhaps the most important element of the bill is that, as an expression of state respect for outstanding artistic achievements and artistic careers, the Hungarian Academy of Arts provides a lifelong regular monthly remuneration and an artist's allowance for the deserving artists aged 65 and over. The monthly rate of the benefit is 425 per cent of the statutory minimum amount of the full old-age pension, which is currently 121 thousand forints per month. The artist's fee is exempt and accepted by the Parliament on the exemption of grants and scholarships granted by the State in 2017 CXXXII. It is governed by law. In the context of the bill, the legislative procedural rules for the election of members are also added. The amendment makes member names more transparent and clearer, and the ordinary and correspondence members are referred to as academics in the bill. The proposal introduces new rules on the conditions for being a member of correspondence, in addition to which non-academic membership is to be strengthened. The circle of the members of the group will be closed, the possibility of establishing a new supporting member status will cease, but the membership status of the members who have already been elected will continue. The bill provides for the alignment of the Secretary-General's mandate with the President's mandate, and the conditions for the election of the Secretary-General are also amended. The mandate of the representatives of the general meeting shall be reduced from four years to two as defined by the law in force, and the representative of the general meeting may be re-elected only once. The bill concerns the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library benefits and public education. When amending the Act, the archives are excluded from the scope of the certification procedure in respect of the public collection area and specify the basic requirements and basic tasks of the public libraries. The qualification requirements for the head of the public library are specified more clearly than the rules in force in the course of the amendment of the related legislation, explicitly requiring university attainment for certain types of libraries. In view of this, instead of the higher level degree in the current legislation, the draft requires the qualification specified in the separate legislation. The focus of the rules of community culture has been on basic public education services, creating legal guarantees for quality assurance. In this context, it has also become necessary to define at legal level the responsibilities of local authorities in providing basic public education services. Under the current legislation, the provision of basic public education services is a mandatory task of local authorities. The proposed regulation aims to reduce the level of municipal obligations and, in addition, to ensure basic public education services, it is necessary to have the appropriate professional qualifications, which also justifies the re-launch of the basic period of community organisation. In addition, the cultural centres with county competence also determine the proportion of persons with a master's degree of education. The technical aspects also justify a master's degree in the management of these organisations. These requirements shall apply from 1 January 2023 and shall give sufficient time to prepare for the fulfilment of these conditions. LXVI of 1995 on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. The amendment of the Act is justified, on the one hand, by a technical clarification of the law and, on the other, by ensuring consistency with the Basic Law. It is necessary to record by law that the documents created by the World Federation of Hungarians between 1945 and 1989 are the property of the State and must then be placed in the competent public register. XII of 1990 on the Kossuth Prize and the Széchenyi Prize By amending law, it will be possible for holders of the Kossuth Prize to receive other prizes or discounts. The amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport is the 2016 CL on General Administrative Rules. It is for compliance with the law, which provides for the possibility of appeal against certain decisions taken by the police for the safety of sporting events. LXV of 1996 on the settlement of the property situation of certain sports property. In accordance with the amendment to Act No. 3, the determining authority may request the applicant to remedy the deficiency once, unless otherwise provided for in a law or a government decree. In the light of this and the fairness procedure, a reasonable gap is provided up to two times. The property equity procedure is exclusively the above law and the Ákr. may be carried out without an implementing regulation in accordance with its rules. In addition, the 1996 CXXVI. The amendment of the law eliminates the public benefit status of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. The Semmelweis Medical and Historical Museum, Library and Archives will be merged into the Hungarian National Museum on 1 February 2017. Based on this, as a state archives, its transformed museum repository has ceased. The 1997 XLVII. In the future, the collection of scientific health documentation will be the responsibility of the territorially competent public archives, according to an archival amendment of Act 1. XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. According to the current text of Law No 63, an organisation may be classified as a national performer-artist organisation, of which at least 70 per cent of the artists employed in the employment relationship have a professional degree in higher education or the civil servants' status Act 63. It has the recognition set out in paragraph 2 of Section 2. [[12.30]] The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article. (12.30) In the case of a top rating, the law sets the same limit at 60 per cent. However, under the legislation in force, from 1 January 2018 all such organisations will have to comply with the legal provisions. Professional organisations have indicated that the condition relating to the higher education of employed artists cannot be fulfilled by several organisations in the absence of training. Therefore, the amendment of the Act of Performing Arts is exempted from the condition, so that they can be qualified. Finally, the 2009 XXXII. The amendment of the Act also includes provisions authorising the establishment of the Hungarian National Committee of UNESCO. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I would ask the honourable Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-16-100	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gábor Törő. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr Speaker. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amending certain cultural and sporting laws and certain related laws proposes to amend ten laws. Most of the amendments concern the implementation of legislative obligations arising from legislative changes. For example, the need to amend the General Administrative Regulation Act due to the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2018, in the case of the Law on the settlement of the property situation of certain sports property and in the case of the Law on Sports. The most extensive amendment of the bill concerns the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Arts. Perhaps the most important element of the bill is that, as an expression of the state's respect for outstanding artistic achievements and artistic careers, the Academy of Arts provides a lifelong, regular remuneration and an artist's allowance for awarded artists aged 65 and over. An artist's allowance may be granted to those who have received one of the fees provided for in the law. In order to avoid multiple awards, academics, as well as the nation's actor, the national artist, the master artist of the Hungarian State Opera House and the master of the Hungarian motion picture should not receive an allowance, since they are already entitled to another substantial allowance at the expense of the central budget, and receive this benefit with regard to the given award, recognition and title. The monthly rate of the benefit is 425 percent of the statutory minimum amount of the retirement pension, currently 121 125 HUF per month. Artist's allowance is a life-long benefit according to the draft. The benefit is tax-free, and the Parliament has recently decided on this at the time of the adoption of the Act on the Exemption of Grants and Scholarships granted by each State. The bill intends to introduce the legal institution of the artist's allowance with effect from 1 January 2018 by establishing and paying the benefit at the earliest on 1 March 2018. At the same time, applications for the establishment of an artist's allowance may be submitted as from 1 January 2018. Under the 2018 Central Budget Act, HUF 780 million is available for the 2018 payment of the artist's allowance. More than 600 artists' benefits can be paid. The changes made in the proposal make the functioning of the public body and the organizational life of the Academy of Arts more effective. In this context, the legislative rules on the choice of member are added. The amendment makes member names more transparent, clearer, and ordinary and correspondence members referred to as academics in the bill. The proposal introduces new rules on the conditions for being a member of correspondence. Supporting membership was important at the time of the establishment of the public body, so the circle of supporting members is closed. The possibility of establishing a new supporting membership will cease. The membership status of the members who have already been elected shall continue. The bill is an important element of the new requirements for officials of the Academy of Arts and the amendment of certain provisions on the Board of Supervisors, the details of which have been detailed by the Secretary of State to the House. The bill provides for the alignment of the Secretary-General's mandate with the President's mandate and the conditions for the election of the Secretary-General are amended. The mandate of the representatives of the general meeting shall be reduced from four to two years as defined by the law in force, and the representative of the general meeting may be re-elected only once. If, for any reason, the mandate of the Assembly Representative ceases within two years of his mandate, a new Assembly Representative may be elected by the date of expiry of the mandate of the previous Member. The amendment to the Act on the use of a specific part of personal income tax under the provisions of the taxpayer is also linked to the Academy of Arts. Since the operation of the Academy of Arts as a public body is based on central budgetary resources and non-supportive donations, the amendment of the law eliminates the public benefit status of the Academy of Arts. This does not create any disadvantage for the public body but, as a result, it is exempt from administrative burdens. Dear House, The law on museum institutions, public library provision and public education is also significantly amended. In the case of the public collection area, the amendment removes archives from the scope of the qualification procedure laid down in the law on public library provision and public education, and clarifies the basic requirements and basic tasks of public libraries. The qualification requirements for the head of the public library are defined more differentiated than the rules in force in the course of the amendment of the related legislation, explicitly requiring university attainment for certain types of libraries. In addition to the methodological role of county-wide urban libraries, the amendment states that public library work plans and reports will be kept and made available by the county-wide urban library in electronic form. In the laws on museum institutions, public library provision and public education, it is necessary to define the responsibilities of municipal authorities in the provision of basic public education services. Under the current legislation, the provision of basic public education services is a mandatory task of local authorities. Compared to the obligation to cover the whole range of basic services, the proposed regulation reduces the size of the municipal obligations by differentiated determination of the tasks to be performed. The reason for this is that, under the law on the local governments of Hungary, individual municipal authorities may have different tasks and powers. In view of this, the amendment of the law, adapted to the population and to the type of local government, sets a differentiated definition of which of the basic public education services should be provided. The amendment of the law on public documents and public archives and the protection of private archives is justified on the one hand by a technical clarification of the body in the archives area and on the other hand by ensuring consistency with the Basic Law. The Fundamental Law states that: "The return of the state self-determination of Hungary lost on the 19th of March 1944 will be calculated from the establishment of the first freely elected people's representativeship from May 1990."After the Second World War, the World Federation of Hungarians operated as a social organization under the direct influence of the Communist State Party until the end of 1989, and therefore it could not be regarded as an independent and independent organization by examining its legal status and role. [[12.40]] The tasks of the World Association of Hungarians were determined by the decisions of the party leadership, the basic tasks were assigned to the party's highest Gremiums, the operation of which was subject to several decisions of the MSZMP Party Committee, its activities were financed by the state budget, and not least by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hungarian People's Republic. On this basis, it can be established that the documents produced by the World Federation of Hungarians between 1945 and 1989 are the property of the State and must be placed in the relevant public register in the same way as the documents belonging to the archives of the bodies performing the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, The Law on the Kossuth Prize and the Széchenyi Prize provides that the winners of the Kossuth Prize and the Széchenyi Prize may not benefit from any other advantages other than the title and the amount of the prize provided for by law, but the granting and granting of a number of discounts and prizes is a legal condition and is based on the participation in the Kossuth Prize. Among other things, the donation of the nation's artist award is subject to the possession of the Kossuth Prize, so the holders of the Kossuth Prize may receive other prizes or discounts, even if not under the title of the award, but in a direct context, under the law. This expression of personal appreciation is not desirable to impose a legal limit, which is why it was necessary to amend the legislation. The amendment to the Act on the Management and Protection of Personal Data related to Health and Health was made necessary by the fact that the Semmelweis Museum of Medical History, Library and Archives merged into the Hungarian National Museum on 1 February 2017. As a result, the Archives department of the Museum of Medical History has ceased as a state archives and has been transformed into a museum repository. Pursuant to the Act of Archives, the Minister responsible for culture is responsible for placing the files of the faculty of professional archives that cease to exist. In view of the fact that pursuant to the Archives Act, the archives of public documents are performed by the public archives, so the Museum of Medical History can no longer keep or manage a public document as a museum repository. In the context of the document to be placed, it should be stressed that only the archives necessary for the placement of the archives created by bodies performing public tasks guarded by the Museum of Medical History and related to the performance of non-public tasks may continue to be the records of the Doctoral History Museum. The need to amend the Act on the promotion of performers' organisations and their specific employment rules is due to the fact that, according to the current text of the Act on the Promotion and Specific Employment Rules of Artistic Organisations, the performing arts organisation may be classified as a national performer-art organisation with at least 70 per cent of its artists employed in employment with a vocational higher education degree or with the recognition provided for in the Act on the Status of Civil Employees. In the case of a top rating, the law sets the same limit at 60 per cent. Until 1 January 2018, the Act on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers-art organisations exempts from compliance with the above provision for the classification of a theatre, ballet and dance ensemble as a national performing art organisation or as a prominent performer-art organisation which is unable to meet the above limit in respect of employed artists. However, under the legislation in force, from 1 January 2018 all such organisations will have to comply with the legal provisions. Professional organisations have indicated that the condition relating to the higher education of employed artists cannot be fulfilled by several organisations in the absence of training, so they are exempted from the requirement by amending the Act of Artists and Arts, and their qualification may occur. Dear House, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be happy to inform you of the reasons and goals for the creation of this law. I believe that we are serving a noble purpose, and that it also expresses the will of our constituents to recognise our artists with outstanding performance even more and to make the operation of public administration faster and more efficient. That is why I ask you to support the rise of the bill tabled by the government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief, I'd like to make two comments. I think that the MMA should be abolished, and then there should be no amendments to the House, and then it would be much cheaper and simpler. And the other is that we consider this to be eligible for an artistic benefit, only because there are a lot of such professions in the country where the salary was low or the official salary was low, so very few pension funds were created, so let's say we should do something about the waiters at the time, because they too have such a profession that they couldn't make a lot of money officially because they had to make a living from tips. In English: the right first step, but we look forward to further steps by the government in terms of different professions. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-16-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Szászfalvi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that the MSZP has so much to say about a very important bill, especially on cultural subjects, concerning the amendment of the law on one of the most defining bodies of Hungarian culture. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposed proposal, as we have heard, proposes to amend ten laws. The most extensive amendment is the 2011 CIX on the Hungarian Academy of Arts. it affects law and makes the MMA's public body function and organisational life more effective. It is also significantly amended by CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Law, too. However, in addition to the above, the additional amendments are minor and concern a section or two of the law in question. I would like to mention in particular the amendment of three laws in my speech; first, the amendments aimed at the functioning of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. The legislative, organisational changes of the past period, as well as the practical experience of the last five years of the public body, and the implementation of certain strategic plans have raised the possibility and need to amend the MMA Act on several points. The most important elements of the bill can be summarised below. Perhaps the most important element of the bill is that, as an expression of the state's respect for outstanding artistic achievements and artistic careers, the MMA provides a lifelong regular monthly remuneration and an artist's allowance to awarded artists aged 65 and over. The rules of procedure for the election of members are added. Although the proposal does not mean a change of substance, the selection procedure will be extended by detailed rules on the basis of the statutes of the public body, in accordance with the law and practice in force. The reason for the amendment is that it is necessary to supplement the MMA Act by linking certain procedural stages of the ordinary member and mailing member election. In addition, the law is supplemented by a detailed provision in relation to the law in force that the election to become a mailing or ordinary member takes place on an academic initiative, and an academic can only recommend the election of a normal or mailing member. The amendment makes member names more transparent and clearer, and ordinary and correspondence members are referred to as academics in the bill. The proposal also introduces new rules on the conditions for being a member of correspondence. The aim of the amendment is to approximate the conditions for non-academic membership and academic election, and to strengthen the position of non-academic membership as regards the possibility of becoming an academic. [[12.50]] Supporting membership was important at the time of the establishment of the public body, so the group of supporting members will be closed and the possibility of establishing a new supporting membership will cease. The bill is an important element of the new requirements for MMA officials and the amendment of certain provisions on the Board of Supervisors. Under the draft, the officials of the public body, the members of the Presidency and the heads of the departments and the three members of the Supervisory Board elected by the General Assembly shall be elected by the General Assembly from the academics elected for at least two years after the legislative amendment came into force. The draft also provides that all members of the Executive Board may be re-elected or re-delegated no more than once. The bill provides for the alignment of the Secretary-General's mandate with the President's mandate; the simultaneous term of president and secretary-general will take place from the 15th year of the establishment of the public body. The conditions for the election of the Secretary-General will also be modified: from 2021, the Secretary-General will only be from among the academics elected for at least two years. From 5 November 2026 onwards, the Secretary-General elected for three years instead of five years, his term of office shall be attached to the term of office of the President, as I said, and shall be for the duration of the term of office of the President, and in the event that the term of office of the Secretary-General is terminated earlier than the President, the new Secretary-General may be elected only for the remainder of the term of office of the President. The mandate of the representatives of the general meeting shall be reduced from four to two years as defined by the law in force, and the representative of the general meeting may be re-elected only once. If the term of office of the Assembly representative ceases for any reason within two years of the mandate, a new assembly representative may be elected until the end of the term of office of the previous representative. The articles of association establishing the term of office of the members of the board of directors for a period of four years will be brought to a legal level, aiming at the long-term alignment of mandates by incorporating a transitional provision. If the mandate is terminated for any reason within four years of the mandate, a new Head of Unit may be elected until the end of the term of office of the former Head of Unit. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. May I add a few more points to the amendment of the law. First of all, the public collection amendments. In the case of the public collection area, the amendment removes the archives from the cultural law 95/B. It also clarifies the basic requirements and basic tasks of public libraries, which, in its garden, fixes the minimum period of opening in the case of settlements of more than 5 000 inhabitants, is required in the case of a municipal library. In the spirit of quality management, it requires public libraries to draw up the annual work plan and report. The qualification requirements for the head of the public library are more differentiated than the rules in force when amending the related legislation, e.g. by explicitly requiring university attainment for certain types of libraries. The amendment states that public library work plans and reports will be kept and made available electronically by the county-based urban library. The changes to public education. The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Act LXVII of 2017 amending law and certain related laws By amending the Act, the policy objectives, the basic public education services, have been focused on the regulation of community culture, creating legal guarantees for the quality and differentiated organisation of basic public education services through community cultural institutions operating in a way better suited to local needs and needs. In this context, it has become necessary to lay down, at the statutory level, a cultural law on the role of municipal authorities in providing basic public education services. Under the current legislation, the provision of basic public education services is a mandatory task of local authorities. Compared to the obligation to cover the whole range of basic services, the proposed regulation reduces the size of the municipal obligations by differentiated determination of the tasks to be performed. The reason for this is that CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. According to the Act, individual municipal authorities may have different tasks and powers. The definition of mandatory tasks and responsibilities should be differentiated, taking into account the nature of the tasks and responsibilities, the different characteristics of local authorities, in particular the economic capacity, population numbers and the size of the administrative area. In view of this, the amendment of the law, adapted to the population and to the type of local government, sets a differentiated definition of what one of the basic public education services should provide. Further details are set out in the draft Ministerial Decree on the requirements of basic public education services and public education institutions and the Community scenes under administrative consultation. Appropriate professional qualifications are required to provide basic public education services. The re-starting of the community organisation period also justifies the determination of the proportion of persons employed in the professional occupation of public education with a Master's degree in the national and regional professional organisation, as well as in the cultural centre types of public education institutions with a county scope. From a professional point of view, it is also appropriate that the leaders of these organisations have a master's degree. These requirements shall apply from 1 January 2023 and shall give sufficient time to prepare for their fulfilment. Finally, I would like to highlight another amendment from this bill, the 1995 LXVI on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. amendment of law. The amendment is justified, on the one hand, by a technical clarification of the body in the archival field and, on the other hand, by ensuring consistency with the Basic Law. The law requires that the documents produced by the World Federation of Hungarians between 1945 and 89 are the property of the State and must be placed in the relevant public register in the same way as the documents belonging to the archives of the bodies performing the public service. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill, and we ask the other factions to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give a two-minute speech to Congressman Attila Mesterházy from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-107	Thank you. I only thought that I would respond to what you said, Mr President, because it must be much more difficult to read a long paper than to give an opinion on an initiative that we disagree with. I know this is difficult for you to understand, but we believe that the Széchenyi Academy of Art would have done just as well for this task, which was founded and conducted by Kosáry Domokos. Instead, you have created the MMA, which is nothing more than to your own friends - and without questioning their artistic ability, performance, no misunderstanding - a playground of your own, instead of continuing this fantastic activity within the framework of the Széchenyi Academy of Art, created by Kosáry Domokos, which was read here by the Member in a production conference. And yes, indeed, we think that this is not the right thing to do, there would have been another framework, another option, which was then also surrounded by a social and professional consensus. Instead, there is now an MMA that is not surrounded by this professional consensus. [[13.00]] There are many valuable art performances in Hungary that are not part of the MMA and do not even wish to be a part of this MMA, and there are many alternative art works that you ignore, while in history, if we go back a little, there are a lot of artistic achievements that you admire that have previously appeared to be as alternative as the current ones, which you do not support. So that's why I have such a similar opinion about this. Once again, the MMA should be abolished, and we disagree with that, so I didn't think we'd have to spend much more time with it. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-16-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi has applied for a proper speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-16-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support the bill. I would like to look at a certain part of this proposal briefly, and that is the issue of an artist's allowance. We have said it several times, and we believe that artists, apart from doing outstanding artistic activities, are also well impressed by their participation in public life, if they participate in social life as much as possible. The reason why I have brought this up now is that, in my opinion and in the opinion of Jobbik, legislation should also work in such a way that we listen to the proposals from the bottom up, and that we can, if possible, make these proposals appear to the people in laws. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] My narrower Patriot, the 17th. One of the outstanding artists of the district B. Laborcz Flóra Ferenczy Prize winner. In 2016, Flóra B. Laborcz turned to the president of the MMA, György Fekete, with the idea that state prize artists with professional and outstanding professional activities should be given some kind of annuity. This was his idea in 2016, and at MMA this was taken seriously, and a proposal for a viable artistic benefit was drawn up, which was supported and accepted by the MMA General Assembly, and is now in this draft law before us. I think that this can be exemplary, that if someone initiates, an artist initiates a proposal, and that proposal is indeed forward-looking and will benefit the country, then it should be here in front of the Parliament and here in Parliament after a while. Therefore, I would also like to thank Flóra B. Laborcz for his work, and also for the work he does in Rákosmente, both in artistic life and in social life, with which he brings the community forward tirelessly. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that B. Laborcz Flóra has another idea that might need to be considered later, and this is the payment of copyright royalty under the copyright law for the works in the exhibition to the owner and creators. This is an existing problem, such a proposal could be discussed, and perhaps the government and the competent bodies should look at the legislation of this possibility in order to be adequate, and then again, with a bottom-up initiative, perhaps this proposal could be here in front of this House after a while. So once again, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Dóra Dúró applauds.]]
u2017-11-16-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech.
u2017-11-16-111	Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I only asked for the floor because Mr Szászfalvi missed the fact that the MSZP spoke too briefly about this bill as a keynote speech. Well, then, Congressman, I will also give you a few criticisms of this bill, because I think it is probably not asking us why we do not support the government, the bill in all its elements, and what the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association is submitting, because if you expect us to do so, we will unfortunately disappoint you, and we will not largely support the legislative proposals that you are putting in, because we do not agree with you on the ground in many cases. As for the bill, as the secretary of state said in her exposé, it is practically a salad - we have discussed quite a lot of salads today - it has several parts. My fellow Member, Mesterházy, mentioned some of the elements in his keynote speech, now I would not like to repeat what he said in detail, but a shaming claim that we believe that the Hungarian Academy of Art should not be boosted, not petty, rather than replenished with resources, but rather eliminated, but that my fellow Member spoke of the details of this. I would also like to say a few words about an artistic benefit. We believe that we are seeing the hearing in this matter that, as we approach the elections, you are trying to bring in another vote-gathering measure, and this is the artistic allowance for persons aged 65 and over who have received individual artistic awards. Of course, before you try to interpret my words differently, I immediately state that we do not want to remove anyone's artistic merit, talent, excellence, creativity, but it was this government that ended all pension and pension benefits before age in 2011, including 5/1992 on the entitlement of individual artists to old-age pensions. an old-age pension established under a government decree. On the other hand, it is not understandable that if this additional benefit, which, although called an allowance, has nothing to do with the pension system, has to be linked to the minimum pension rate, which, if we are already here, is extremely cynical because the minimum pension has been the same for almost ten years since 2008 that it has been the same amount of HUF 28 500. This allowance was more than HUF 120,000 a month plus for those affected, which is roughly the average pension rate, and compared to that, the more than one million pensioners whose benefits do not even reach the average pension get nothing. So, as I have already said, the way we can translate this is that you want to maximize your ability to vote, and with the elections approaching, there are groups that you are trying to buy - so I put it very simply - to buy. For example, my fellow Member Mesterházy mentioned that the waiters could be bought, but if I may wish to, Mr Szászfalvi, I will be able to present a whole long list, whether in writing or orally, of what groups in Hungary are still those layers that are really, really, seriously looking for help and should receive very, very serious help. So if you have missed this, Congressman, that is why I asked you briefly. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity to speak.
u2017-11-16-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask if anyone else wishes to exercise the right to speak on our agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-11-16-113	Thank you very much for the word, but briefly. As we have heard from both the expozee and the Members, the proposal contains amendments to a number of cultural and sporting laws. Most of the amendments were aimed at implementing legislative obligations resulting from legislative changes or improving minor legislative and application problems. I am sure that the bill before this House will succeed in creating even more transparent rules for uniform and effective provisions, and accordingly I call on Members of this House to support T/18314. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much for the floor, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-114	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments can be tabled today, Thursday, at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the proposal for a decision on the Hungarian Sports Day, the Hungarian Parasport Day and the Hungarian Student Sport Day will follow. Presentation submitted by Dóra Dúró, Jobbik, László Földi, István Ikotity, LMP, Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz, and Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, Members H/18211. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[13.10]]
u2017-11-16-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is a bit strange, because it is indeed a five-party proposal, and one cannot necessarily express its personal opinion on the proposal or even the party's political opinion, so I am trying to choose the solution in my national exposé that I would like to present the proposal as much as possible as a party independent, and I would like to talk about the values of the proposal, or about my personal beliefs and personal experiences, as far as the subject of the proposal is concerned. First of all, allow me to welcome, on behalf of all of us, Anita Urr, Secretary-General of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, who also honoured the plenary session with his personal presence. It is indeed a five-party proposal, which started out as a four-party initiative, but the initiative itself is not party political, nor did it start with the parties, but László Szabó, President of the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, initiated at the hearing of the Cultural Committee in May and at the hearing of the committee that the legislators set up the Hungarian Parasport Day. He also took two other initiatives to the members of the committee and to the plenary session, and we did not forget, of course, but I am pleased that after a long six months, one of these initiatives could have been brought before the Parliament. The proposal includes not only the Day of Parasports, but also the Day of Sport, which in many people who work in sports and who follow up on events related to sport, should give some reason to explain, since the day of sport already exists, quite precisely existed legally, indeed it was created by the former legislator, but it was removed from the Hungarian legal system during a double derogation. So right now, sports day exists without legal basis. This was also noted during the codification work on the day of Parasports, as we wanted to use it as a model when introducing the day of the Parasports, and then we were confronted with the fact that the day of sport was not found in the legal system, which is why it is necessary to replace it in a decision proposal. It was not only these two days that ended up in the presentation, but also the day of student sports. Obviously, we would have liked to have been able, together with the authors, to reach out to athletes, people susceptible to sport, and to draw them into the scope of the proposal, and that is why during the discussions it was considered that the day of student sport should be added to the proposal. I would like to discuss this further, since the Hungarian Student Sports Day is already a practical initiative, the success of the Hungarian Student Sports Association, in this case only the recognition by the National Assembly of the work that the Student Sports Association has already done. When László Szabó took this initiative at the committee's meeting and asked the legislators to acknowledge the struggles and work of the parasports, and obviously much more, since parasport means much more than we consider, in a narrow sense, a sports professional activity, then I was particularly approached as chairman of the committee to assist the committee in this initiative and to ensure that this proposal is free of all party politics, so I initiated the five-party consultation. Not only have I supported this initiative because of my position as chairman of the Commission, but I have also led, of course, to my personal conviction. This is a moment of mercy when politicians' personal convictions coincide with their official work and obligations, and I would like to talk a little bit more about this in the context of parasports, about the experiences that I have experienced in this regard, thanks to Mr President, because he regularly invited me and invited me to various events of the Paralympic Committee, and also because of my personal experiences at these various sporting events. As I mentioned above, parasports also have a greater importance than itself, since any initiative involving people with disabilities is always a social issue. We chose this day, namely 22 February, on the proposal of the Paralympic Committee, as a day for parasports, because in connection with this event it can be said that Olivér Halassi's person and the conditions of the formation of the sports association are both suitable for the full Hungarian disability sport society to enjoy this day. This was a very important aspect when we prepared this proposal to try not only to acknowledge the performance of parasportsists in a narrow sense, but also of all people with disabilities. Following many individual attempts, András Fejes, the first Hungarian Paralympic medalist and Zoltán Tauber, with the help of the first Hungarian Paralympic gold medalist, formed the sports club named after the double Olympic champions, Olivér Halassy's Sports Club, and this is the event proposed as the Parasport Day by a representative of each group in order to express our appreciation. I believe that every such initiative, as we say, is used by burned-out politicians without feeling, is used to say that it can contribute to strengthening social cohesion, but I would like to bring you a little closer to the personal experiences that have brought me closer to parasports and parasportists in recent years. During my work as a representative, and as chairman of the committee, I felt in particular that the areas for which I was responsible for the committee that I was trying to run during this term were not sufficient to follow the legislative or legislative work itself, but to initiate as many visits to institutions as possible, and as soon as my third child became large enough to be able to go to the institutions of Hungary, I also started these visits to Hungary, and with my three-month-old child, for example, I visited the rectors of the major universities, I also discussed the maintenance of cultural and educational institutions and their situation with the leaders of the Christian churches, and I also visited primary schools and secondary schools throughout Budapest, as well as cultural institutions with high and national qualifications, and I also attended the Paralympian Committee events, as far as I could do. In general, visits to the institutions did not surprise me with my personal experiences, as they were very positive everywhere, and in many places I met professional humility, humanity, ability, and the heroes of everyday life, if you can call those head of institutions or teachers or cultural workers who received me on these visits. But what usually happened to me was that I had a certain emotional visit to an institution that I had anticipated in advance, and I knew how many times educators did superhuman work, how important human qualities are in the hands of those who spend their time with our children on weekdays, and I expected that during the meetings of the Paralympic Committee with people with disabilities, it would be primarily a feeling of compassion and solidarity that I would feel at these events. It's not that I didn't feel these things, and not that I don't think I can handle them with the right turn, but if I want to share my first feelings and experiences with you honestly, I'd rather feel at these events that I'm among successful people who can beat themselves and be able to set an example for others. This feeling was a bit surprising to me that it was not the existence of disability that I felt primarily, but a completely different feeling, and that is why I tried and tried to turn to the Parasportists and the Paralympic Committee, because in fact, these are the experiences in which I was able to get much closer to, I feel, their problems and their world. The last recreational port event I took part in was also a very decisive experience. [[13.20]] I took part in the Kolonic Memorial Run, where my running partner was Csaba Orbán, who was an almost completely blind runner, and I ran with him in the rain, partly in the field, full of puddles, and this experience also brought me much closer to these people's lives, and it meant a lot more than, say, reading various newspaper articles about him, what it was like to be able to achieve almost unimaginable sporting performance compared to my sports activity. I thought that if we could make these experiences available to schools and children through Parasport Day, then we could do a great deal to make them more sensitive to the problems of these people, and that the future generation could take a whole different approach to the lives of disabled people than my generation, but the generations before that may have been even less sensitive in this regard. This was what led me most personally to believe, for which I went to Mr President at the end of the committee meeting to say that I would be very happy to help with this issue at the time. Indeed, as regards the presentation, I am honoured to be among the authors. Like parasports, it is an extremely important issue, although it is not comparable to the issue of student sport, which is also a very captivating issue, I think for all of us who are parents or raise children, because the question of social perception and health education for students and children may be a bit of a backsliding issue in public life, just as it is, by the way, the sport of parasports or people with disabilities. I can mostly relate to this as the mother of three children, or some, when it comes to sports habits of youth, also as the youngest Member of Parliament. These are the links that I would like to extend the circle to student sports... - or a little more, because the recognition of the day of student sports, this is also of greater importance beyond itself, the enhancement of the health awareness of young people, for which the day of student sport itself and the support of student sports are essential. Last week it was very interesting; I had a TV show, when this question was also raised, why we could present four-party or five-party proposals to the House, whether we could join together on some important issue and put our ships' noses in the same direction. I was so shocked by this question, and it was probably not only the reaction of that particular journalist, but also a general social reaction that sport is not an important thing. I thought about it, and I said that even if I had one wish in my life, only one wish that I could choose to overcome any challenge, I would certainly choose to keep my children healthy. I can't think of anything more important than that. There's nothing that can prevent that. To this end, it is essential that the movement of children, young people, and the need for movement, so that sport and exercise are a natural part of their lives, we must develop this. CHAPTER XXI Otherwise, we need to develop it especially in the first century because it is extremely important for the ever-increasing sedentary lifestyle to replace it with the right movement, which, by the way, was even natural in previous generations, but is becoming less and less so recently. We can also see from various surveys that the Hungarian population, when it comes to recreational port, is not one of the top fighters, and then I put this delicately. In this respect, too, we have a great deal to do in the future. The recognition of the Student Sports Day, because, as I mentioned, this is already an existing initiative, and I am going to talk a little bit about how it started and what level it is currently holding, this recognition is not just a symbolic act, I think, on the part of the Parliament, and it should not be just a symbolic act, but much more. I would like decision-makers, journalists and the public to understand why this is so important, why it is so important that we pay particular attention to the need for children to move, because in order to be healthy, it is essential that they move regularly, and this has not been part of public life until the last period, even though it is a very important investment in the future. It is not only economic to talk about your return here that you spent on sports or leisure sports, student sports, but also parasports, tax forints spent on it in the economy, and then how you will pay back later. I don't accept that aspect. It's a secondary question in my opinion. Forints invested in children, parasports, leisure sports, student sports are not important for their economic return, but it is a matter of value. It is a matter of values to be healthy, so that we can connect better, understand each other's lives, experience with each other, and experience with each other. This is why I think that economic return in this regard should not be an aspect at all, and I think that this aspect should be banished from public life and public debate, how it will be repaid when we spend on student sport. On the one hand, we can't tell. There are many experiences for children, and therefore their parents and their environment, which cannot be fortified. When I go to my kids at the end of the swimming class and my son says, "Mom, look what I can do, I can't forint this." I can't tell you how much it costs because it's priceless. Thus, the economic aspects should not dominate at all when it comes to investments that increase their sports opportunities in children. At the same time, recognition of the day of student sports must be much more than the narrow professional activity that teachers, parents and children do on this day in connection with the connection and accession of schools. This is more of a matter of transcendental importance to itself, as I mentioned in the case of parasports. By the way, the last Friday of September is the day of student sports itself declared by this resolution proposal. We have also included this on the proposal of the Student Sports Association, which is a specific day in the decision because this initiative is now de facto operating on this day since 2006. This was meant to be at least one day in which we are discussing the activities of schools along the lines of physical activity. There are many things, as I have said, which are also important for society, including the possibility of grassroots sport, its volunteering, social inclusion, social inclusion and health-enhancing exercise. This 2006 initiative has now achieved a success that I think all Hungarians can be proud of, because they have found many followers in Europe, and this year, in 2017, we have achieved that on this day the European Day of Student Sport has already been organised in 26 European countries, which is clearly based on the day of Hungarian student sport, and it is about expanding this initiative. On the last Friday of September of this year, nearly 2 million children participated in the 120-minute program recommended for the registration schools, and there are apparently more people who played sports. In this way, the European Union has also understood and supported somewhat the validity and recognition of this initiative. I believe that, at the very least, the Hungarian Parliament will do the same, and I hope that we will be able to accept this proposal by unanimous vote. To sum up, I would like to tell you once again that the initiative has been discussed with representatives of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, the Hungarian Paralympic Committee and the Hungarian Student Sport Association. Thank you, too, for your contribution and for your participation in the work. On their behalf too, I would like to ask you to adopt this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-11-16-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Secretary of State if she wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the secretary of state.
u2017-11-16-117	Dear House, Dear Secretary-General, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Congressman Lords! It is a great pleasure to have us before such an important presentation and decision. [[13.30]] As we know, sport has the power of a nation, a family, a community and a community, and it can be compared to almost nothing. It is also a significant economic factor, since sport is the most dynamically developing sector, which has a very positive impact on almost all spheres. If a nation recognizes this in time, it will ensure its future development; and Hungary has recognised this, and we can rightly say that it is an example for Europe as a whole. The proposal for a decision, which has now been submitted, is a tribute to the highly successful sports history of the Hungarian nation and an investment in the successful present and successful future, the next generation. Our goal is to express our appreciation for athletes, to further enhance the prestige of sport, its value, and to strengthen our commitment to the sport-rich education of children, students and people with disabilities. The Hungarian day of sport, the day of Hungarian parasports, the joint message of the Hungarian day of student sport is that the role of sport in our everyday lives, thus the daily life of the country, is extremely important. These three great days will be the celebration of Hungarian sport on the basis of the decision proposal, which will also provide an opportunity to remember, recognise success and ensure the success of the future. The Hungarian Sports Day, as we have heard from the congresswoman, has been celebrated since May 6, 2000, commemorating the first outdoor sports competition in 1875 held by the Hungarian Athletic Club in Budapest. The Hungarian Parasports Day was 22 February, because on this day in 1970 Halassy Olivér SC was founded, which was the first sports club in the field of domestic parasports. Olivér Halassi was an extraordinary sportsman, who was a European champion, Olympic champion water polo player, and also a European champion swimmer, who achieved his achievements as a parasportsman in the race of the intact. With this date, we can present an eternal memory of the past's successes, and in a worthy way we can pay tribute to disabled athletes and their coaches, professionals, teachers and educators, for their work. On 29 September this year, on the last weekend of September, nearly 2 million students - as we have already heard from the congresswoman - moved in Hungary for at least 120 minutes on the occasion of the Hungarian Student Sports Day. In Europe, 26 countries joined this initiative, which was announced by the Hungarian Student Sports Association in 2006 with the aim of raising awareness of the joy and importance of mobility by parents at least one day a year, by raising awareness among teachers, families of the importance of regular movement, physical education, and by making children as young as possible aware of the joy and importance of movement. This year's figures show that the popularity of the program is increasing and the participation of schools is increasing. With the resolution proposal, the government fully supports the Hungarian day of sport, the day of Hungarian parasport and the day of Hungarian student sport, its ideality and importance. After all, it is essential that the promotion of sport and healthy lifestyles through it be further strengthened, helping to promote sport, re-education, the importance of recreational sport for both the healthy and the disabled. Dear Parliament, This year was also an extraordinary year, because this year we were proud not only of our sports results, our medals, our world summits, but also of world events, and it is no coincidence that this proposal for a resolution was supported by five parliamentary parties and presented jointly by their representatives. This clearly shows that sport is our common value and interest, but we cannot sit back with this, we have a lot of work and work to do, as we have a lot of work to do to celebrate the day of Hungarian sports, parasports and Hungarian sports. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you for your support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-16-118	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Tapolczai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-16-119	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary-General, Dear Secretary of State, I am very pleased that this proposal for a resolution is ahead of us. We've heard many times that sports belong to everyone. We have also heard many times that disability is not a left- and-right-wing issue, so it is not surprising that this proposal can benefit from the support of all five parties. I don't want to repeat what I just said, but I'd rather just sum it up. The essence of the proposal: by commemorating the various symbolic days, we commemorate the first outdoor competition on the occasion of the Hungarian Sport Day, and on this basis the 6th of May became the Hungarian Sport Day. We commemorate Olivér Halassy and his work, his career as an athlete, and we commemorate the first parasportists who won medals in the first paralymies. The date of the establishment of the Olivér Halassy Sports Club of Motionists should be the day of the Hungarian Parasports, 22 February. We commemorate the initiative of the Hungarian Student Sports Association when this initiative was launched in 2006, which has since grown into a European dimension. And this is the day of student sport, European Student Sports Day, which is what you've grown into. It's the last Friday of September. In this connection, I would like to mention, as the congresswoman has said, how important it is for us, as parents with children and children, to have children's health, to have sport, and to do with this is a very great project: the big sports pick-up day. I think we all know this day, we used to take our kids, and so many times it's there to decide what kind of sport the kids will choose. There is also an international example of these days, regardless of the legislation, I would just like to mention a few examples. Every year in India, on 29th August, sports day is held in Iran on 17th October. Meanwhile, they're celebrating the Parasport Day on October 12th. Last time, there were about 35,000 participants in this event, the Parasport Day, children, parents, teachers. The National Sports Day has been celebrated in Japan since October 10, 1966. From 2000 on Monday, 2 October, this is a national holiday. It has been celebrated in Malaysia every second Saturday of October since 2015. In Uganda, for example, every second Tuesday of February each year has been celebrated since 2002 as a sports day. Each has the same goal: to draw attention to the importance of sport and to promote a healthy lifestyle. However, there is also an example of Parasport Day, since 2012 in England the Parasport Day has been celebrated in memory of the very successful London Paralympics, and also in Jamaica the sports of the deaf have been celebrated in the form of national deaf sports day since 2010. So, on the basis of what has been said so far, it is clear that all parties will support this proposal, and as I often ask my fellow Members for support, I do so now. [[13.40]] However, allow me to make a comment: in addition to the fact that I am very pleased that the MSZP has also joined this proposal, allow me to express my incomprehensibility and a little disappointment as to the fact that they abstained in the vote on my proposal on the Olympic allowance tabled in the vote the day before yesterday, even though they supported my proposal in the speeches. However, what I would like to ask for the support of all my fellow Members is my amendment, since I would like to present an amendment. We need to know who was the first European champion of Hungary. Not within the sport of the disabled, but at all within the sport: Tibor Földváry. In 1875 he won the gold medal in Budapest at the figure skating European Championship. We're talking deaf athletes. He was the first to draw up the first international competition rules for figure skating. And you need to know when the very first deaf sports club was formed. In March 1911 the Shiketméma Football Club was founded, and the Sports Club of Deafs, which was founded in 1912, grew out of it. It is also important to know which is the oldest international event organized for disabled people after the Olympics. It's the deaf lympia. It has been held since 1924 and is held every four years. The Hungarian legislation also points to the priority of these three sporting events, the Olympics, the Paralympics and the Deaf Lympics; the only person who can receive an Olympic allowance is the Olympics, the Paralympics or the Deaf Lympics. There are other professional conditions, of course, in this case. The same applies to reward. After Olympic, Paralympic, Deaf Limpian medals, athletes are rewarded. Of course, there are other disabled athletes who can receive a reward, but not an allowance. These include the special Olympics or the world game of organ transplants. The reward system also applies to them, but the Olympic allowance does not apply to them. Not to mention the recognition by the International Olympic Committee of the deafly Lympia, so it is the competition system under the Olympic flag. It is true that the Olympics and the Paralympics will be held in parallel competition systems, in time consecutive competitions, and in the year after the Olympics and the Paralympics. So, based on these different aspects, the essence of the proposal is that the date of establishment of the Sports Club of Deafs, June 2nd, should be the day of Hungarian deaf sports. As far as the Member's statement is concerned, I agree with everything. The health of children and children is most important. But I smiled a little while while I was smiling, because I looked at this very interesting question from the point of view of my fellow fates, because every time we ask each other, deaf couples, what do you want your child to be deaf or hearing, the most common answer is to be healthy. So, from our point of view, disability is not a matter of health. It's a condition. It's a matter of condition. I know exactly, as a father with four hearing-damaged children, that health is more important than anything else, so it is very important to move, to educate people about movement, to exercise regularly, to continue a healthy lifestyle later on. I therefore agree with the proposal for a decision to help and assist this process in any way - it was already worth it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-16-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-16-121	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a historic moment, because if it were possible to say that both the comments of my better fellow Member and the remarks of the Secretary of State could have been said by a Member of the MSZP on the subject of the current draft law, I would have spared this House, because I could only say similar things in this regard. Indeed, it is right and good to have a multi-party agreement and consensus in this. The voice of my fellow Member, Mr Fidesz, would have been acceptable to us 90 percent if he had not smuggled a criticism into this from his deep pain. Perhaps it would have been worth saying yesterday, rather than this more solemn speech today, when a multi-party unity really unfolds. For my part, I have always been committed not only to sport, but also to sports and other people with disabilities. When I was able to oversee this area as Secretary of State, I personally attended as many events as I could, both at home and abroad, from the special Olympics through the paralympics to many other events, and it is true that these athletes brought special performances, and it was the same national pride for us when they achieved results and successes. Perhaps there is an area in which it is worth working together, and this is perhaps the media's presentation of these sports successes. It's also true of parasports and disabled sports, as they say in the Olympics for the silver medalist and the bronze medalist and the fourth, fifth, sixth place. While we are talking about the fact that if you were the 5th best in a sport in the world, there are very few people who can list the 5th, 6th place in the past Olympics, which I think is a major tragedy, because it is also a huge achievement, and it is not just the Olympic gold that counts. Now, the sport of the disabled is a little similar to this: while they have a narrow appreciation for their activities, it somehow does not get through the media to the public that these athletes deserve on the basis of their performance. Maybe that's something we should move forward with. And by the way, we are very happy to take this initiative, we think it is good, and the faction of the MSZP will also support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-16-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary-General, On the part of the KDNP, of course, we support this great proposal, and that is why I will be brief, not because we do not support or agree with this proposal. This proposal puts together three major dimensions: the past, the present and the future. It partly reminds me, it is partly awareness-raising and purposeful, and partly forward-looking, it also wants to mobilise, it wants to motivate, and it also wants to build a future, and it also wants to build a future. Perhaps the five-partisanism is also symbolic in such a way that we all agree that sport is a strategic area in all aspects: the life of society, the life of the whole nation, for our survival and for our future. And that, I think, of course, applies to all areas of sport: competition, parasports, student sports, training and our children. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that sport and sport for all dimensions, as we have already heard from Madam Secretary of State, have a very important task, function, while its vocation in all dimensions is that it is a community builder. A community-building force. Power from which physical, mental, mental and health processes follow, and all dimensions can be a resource for society as a whole, and especially for future generations, for our children and grandchildren. [[13.50]] Dear Parliament, In recent years, many and important steps have been taken in this area, in the fields of sport, parasports and student sport. To mention just a few: the introduction of daily physical education, gymnasiums, swimming pools, stadiums, other infrastructure conditions. This has all served to focus on sport, so that sport can become a strategic sector in the life of the nation. I mentioned that much has happened, but we still have huge tasks ahead of us, perhaps not now in the area of infrastructure development, but of course we also need to continue, as we have very important objectives to pursue, that in all areas of the country, in the smallest settlement, in the most disadvantaged settlements, in the most disadvantaged districts and areas, all conditions for sport, for competition, for parasports, for student sports, for re-training. So there are very, very important tasks for us. I believe that this resolution, this draft resolution, represents an opportunity for all of us, an opportunity for society as a whole, an opportunity for cooperation, an opportunity for everyone involved and committed in this area to add their own strength, their own opportunity, their own sacrifice, their own support, so that the objectives that have all been said today can be achieved. In fact, this short draft decision is a symbolic summary. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a lot about sensitivity in recent years, and Mrs Dóra Dúró also spoke about it for a few sentences. This has been a mystical concept for me for a very long time, but I think that from year to year, from month to month, from day to day, the content and essence of this is also in this proposal for a resolution. So it is very, very important to make not only society in general, but also the communities where we live, where we all live, where we are all present. And as many personal comments have been made, let a father of three tell me how important sport was in the lives of my three children. I guess we couldn't imagine how they could have grown up without sports. This means, of course, that many sacrifices must be made to parents, to the whole family, because very, very important objectives must also be achieved within the family, and calendars must be coordinated, and at some point on a weekend, everyone tries to serve the function of being able to be everywhere for the three children, and perhaps even parents should be there once in a while. I therefore think that this proposal for a decision indeed sets out a very important objective, symbolic, and that it may be able to draw more attention to both competition and parasport and student sport. I think that we can achieve the goal if we press the button together not only when deciding, but then we are also involved together in the implementation of this. On this basis, the KDNP naturally supports and we trust that this decision will be adopted jointly. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-16-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-16-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The resolution proposal before us is supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement, and we consider it a very good initiative. Madam President has a very big job in it, but we must thank each party with a faction for their support. In particular, we should thank the Hungarian Olympic Committee, the Paralympic Committee and the Student Sports Association for their immediate support for this initiative, and so it can be said that they will really come to Parliament with complete consensus. It may now seem, as my colleague Dóra Dúró said, that these three days seem to be symbolic, but I still believe that these commemorative days can become strategically important days later. I should finish my speech here, we support it, we are happy about it, but I feel that this is an opportunity to talk about where Hungarian sports life is today, what the experiences of the past seven years are. At the very beginning, I would like to say that I do not wish to attack the pro-government representatives, and I even fully acknowledge that you love sport, that you have also invested a lot of money on sport, but you have made a lot of mistakes, and perhaps with the aim of sacrificing for sport, we have achieved exactly the opposite results in many places, and we have come to this point in our day, that the sport, which we sacrifice very, very much, and society does not find much of each other, and there is a certain sense of opposition to sport in society, perhaps thanks to this great spending. I would like to say a number of things that I would like to say once again, not in terms of attack, but in terms of what the future Jobbik government will have in terms of sports, what we would change and what we would keep from what the Fidesz-KDNP government has started. We believe that the contrast and distance between sport and society should be stopped. We believe that a wide range of social support should be restored to sport and sports life. Let's see what I think the problems were: we spent a lot, a lot of money on competitive sports over the last seven years, but less and less on recreational sports. The scissors between racing and recreational sports are getting bigger. We believe that the promotion of recreational sport should be given much more priority, given the goals and principles that we hear from pro-government representatives about the impact that sport has on health care, the impact that sport has on economic life, we also agree with it, but it is primarily recreational sport, although it is also competition sport, that has an impact on health. So it's a very, very important thing for health preservation. We say that there must be clear support for future-oriented thinking in children and learners, and that physical activity is of great benefit throughout the life, beyond the positive public health impacts such as cardiovascular disease, certain cancers and the reduction of the risk of diabetes. Here I draw attention to the fact that the situation of diabetics in Hungary is very serious at the moment, and diabetes is becoming increasingly present at a young age. So sport could clearly have a preventive effect, but we have to do very, very much to do it, and we have to create the conditions that are necessary for this. We think it's the 21st. Indeed, it contributes to economic growth in the century, it does contribute to health care, but once again, some things need to be changed. What is there to change? Here are the good examples. We think it is absolutely good and supported by Jobbik Hungary Movement, for example, the introduction of daily physical education in schools. However, we note that since the conditions were not given, neither the personal conditions nor the circumstances were given to introduce everyday physical education everywhere in schools, we are slowly beginning to think that it has the opposite effect on students. Not only would they like sports in everyday physical education classes, because if they don't have the right conditions and they have to jump in the hallway just to get a certain number of hours, they won't like sports, and they won't even like physical education. We must change this, therefore, because I feel that, despite good intentions, there is a negative trend. [[14.00]] Or the other thing I've already said is that it's a matter of sports and leisure. There have been many, many investments in recent times that I call visual investment. The fact that so many stadiums were built in this country does not serve the recreational port at all. We are about to be there for the latest sports investment, not only that the population cannot use these sports facilities for leisure sports, but also athletes, because athletes still can't get into the stadium on Saturday because they now realize that it has operating costs, and what that really means.. It's very easy to pull up a super sports facility, but everyone who has done sports in their lives knows that 30 percent of a sports project is the execution itself, and 70 percent of it will be the cost of operation and everything else if it is carried out with inadequate and inadequate care. Therefore, the issue of facilities must be resolved, and Jobbik Hungary's Movement believes that regional development of facilities is needed instead of sports-visibility investments; improvements that can also serve competition sports where appropriate, but can be used primarily not by athletes but by residents of the locality, and people who live there can play sports. These can also be the renovation of gym renovations, school sports fields, playgrounds, or even the construction of new sports spaces, to give people the opportunity to play sports if they want to. Another important issue is the issue of Tao subsidies. We are talking about nearly HUF 400 billion, which has flown into sport through Tao grants over the last seven years. It's a huge amount of money. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement believes that the Tao support system, the idea itself, was not bad at all. There are more problems with implementation than that, since Tao subsidies pose a huge risk of corruption. We believe that a significant part of this 400 billion HUF was not used in sport, it was not in sports life. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement will keep, if possible, the Tao Support System, but in a completely system already. We will be much better at checking what we are spending these money on and whether these money will actually be spent on it afterwards. Only one forint should not be used out of these funds. We will introduce a very strict control system in this area. And the other, I mentioned corruption, that one of the types of corruption is that there is now almost no professional sports association in Hungary, a larger association where the sports manager is not a fidesz or a person linked to Fidesz. In our view, this is unacceptable. We want to put the sport support system on professional ground, we will only take into account professional aspects and not who is the president, who is the leader of a sports association, a professional sports association. I mean, it's a corruption factor somewhere. In fact, we are going to go so far as to prohibit politicians from becoming sports leaders. That's incompatible, in our opinion. We want to give the sport back to the profession, we want to give the sport back to the athletes, because we think it's in the best hands. Politics should only be able to solve the funding and support of sport, to a certain extent. After all, a completely different approach should also be developed for sports leaders in Hungary, who are constantly waiting to receive the money from the state that they can work with. In sports where possible, support for sport should be based on the market as much as possible. I believe that this would also be a feasible form if there was a will to do so. We will definitely eliminate the fact that sports leaders can become politicians. This is incompatible and we intend to settle this at a legal level. But once again, we believe that the government has a duty to support sport, we will also support sport, but since it is public money, every single forint must be checked very closely to see if it is actually devoted to sport. The other thing we still need to talk about here, I would like to make one comment I expected from Gergely Tapolczai, but he didn't say, I'll tell you. The scissors open not only between competition and leisure sports, but also between the privileged professional sports associations and other sports associations. I am very upset that the team of the deaf, which will play the championship qualifiers in the Czech Republic, has turned to the Hungarian Football Association. I would ask the Secretary of State to intervene in this matter with the Hungarian Football Association if possible. They wanted to borrow a selection of jerseys for this European championship qualifier, and the Hungarian Football Association said they wouldn't give them a titled jersey. So they didn't lend me a single pair of jerseys to the deaf runner-up. This is outrageous! Since then, the Internet has moved, including László Szabó, Chairman of the Paralympic Committee, and many others have helped. This situation seems to be resolved, but this should not be done out of public relations, as I believe that in the event of an appropriate performance, the Hungarian Football Association could have lent it to a European championship qualifying. There are little problems like this, but they're all causing social tension. After all, in a sports association such as MLSZ, which receives a lot of Tao money as a support to stop practicing such gestures, society is outraged, and they already say why they are getting so much money. It's very, very important how we communicate here. And I've come to what I wanted to talk to you about. And this is the promotion of sport. In my opinion, we should make much better use of the fact that, despite all the money, I think that we are considered a sports power in certain sports because we have talented, almost brilliant competitors who can bring results and results. After all, if we took football, the academic system and the money spent in it wouldn't exactly bring back the expected results, because I think we could have gotten rid of Andorra and Luxembourg without any academic system and any kind of money anyway. So I think that those who achieve sports results there are not making sufficient use of the opportunity to promote sport. After a tournament, these contestants will be watched for two weeks. But we do not set them up as a role model for young people, for example, to introduce these people, who are working very, very hard to achieve success in the world championship, the Olympics, or any major world competition. It's a very, very big job, with a lot of resignations. And it's not just the moment when they can stand up at the top of the podium and play the anthem, it's not the moment they live, it's much more than that. If all of these were presented to young people, if we did not constantly set celebrities as role models for young people, that they would take the easy side of life, but we would also present the beauty of sport and its difficulties, I think it would be more useful. So promoting sport will be a very important part. I think, if you will allow me, especially because I would like to give you a personal example of promotion; then I will speak in a brief speech, and I will also talk about promoting sport. After all, I believe that this is one of our most important tasks, precisely because I believe that the perception of sport in society has deteriorated strongly in recent years. By the way, this was also seen in the referendum on the Olympics. After all, the signatures came together for the referendum, but if there had been a referendum a year or a year or a year or a year or so before that, or when we started this Olympic competition, I am convinced that those who supported the Olympics would simply have been the majority. And then the whole social thinking and thinking turned into a negative direction. But again, about promoting sports, if you'll allow me, I'll say a few more words. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dóra Dúró applauds.]]
u2017-11-16-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, who has asked for the floor in a normal time frame, MSZP Group.
u2017-11-16-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In his lead speech, Attila Mesterházy said that we support the presentation, so I did not plan a very long comment on this, as our position is clear. However, I myself would like to draw attention to some of the issues that I consider important. [[14.10]] After all, every such presentation is an opportunity to talk about the situation of sport and parasports in Hungary in general. What I can say is that, in part, Mr Tapolczai has said that the Hungarian Socialist Party has repeatedly argued that we must seize all possible means to ensure that parasportsists and their intact associates can play sports under similar conditions, and that their achievements are similarly judged by society and receive similar rewards in this respect. There have been a lot of debates about this in public life over the past few years. We can remember that in 2008, for example, their Olympic remuneration was similar, and then this changed. We didn't think it was a good process. I can say, in summary, that we will support all the proposals that transform the system of benefits in this regard, the Olympic remuneration system, in such a way that it fully serves this purpose. Steps are important, but we cannot lose sight of the fact that if we touch these systems, we should touch them in a way that best serves the interests of parasportsists as widely as possible. This has also been raised in the recent Olympics and paralympics. Then, obviously, public life has also spoken more about this issue. So I consider this to be a very important issue, as has been said earlier, how the corporate tax benefit scheme works in Hungary. I was one of those people who was very anxious about it. I raise this because I think that we in this room are all interested in ensuring that parasportsmen and sport in general are in the right place in public life, with national support for such matters. I can tell you that the public sentiment surrounding the corporate tax exemption is getting worse. It is clear that hundreds of billions of forints have been used, and a significant part of this not specifically served as a replacement sport, but has been used in many cases, which also supports competition sport and professional sport; if it is directly, indirectly, but supports it. How these resources get to each club also raises a lot of question marks. It raises the suspicion that they're being directed to certain clubs, not others. I think this is very serious harm to the prestige of Hungarian sport, and this issue must be resolved. The system needs to be tightened up, made more transparent, and the most important thing is that it would basically serve to restore social prestige, to ensure that the system is competitively neutral, not to have the feeling that within the corporate tax system there will be a say in which teams are successful, for example in the field of Hungarian football. Here I would suggest that, while I am very much in favour of Hungarian sport, I think it is important in all respects that as many people play sports in the country as possible, but I think that the possibility of corporate tax relief should also be raised in the areas of health and education. It will therefore also have to be used to finance health and education institutions or health and education objectives. I think a lot of people in this country would agree. As regards the creation of sports facilities, sport facilities should be sustainable and providing real social needs, not sports facilities that will be congant, where appropriate, from emptiness or based on a team where there is no real need for this, but must also serve the needs of real mass, leisure and sport. Obviously, I'm also thinking of missed gym investments or swimming pool constructions or school building. There are a lot of bridges in this regard all over the country. Finally, I would like to confirm our commitment to provide greater resources for recreational and mass sport. This has led to a slight improvement in the past period, but after 2010, it was clear that leisure and mass sport had lost in the development of a new aid policy. The new aid policy was particularly competitive and focused specifically on visual team sports. I don't think that's right. I think that it is not only in our interest, it is obviously very important and encouraging that we have competitive sports in the country, because this is an important example for many people, but I also think that it is important, at least as important, that sport is available to everyone, that sport should be there for everyone. That is why I mentioned what I said about parasportsmen, and it is at least as important that millions of people have access to sports, so there is not enough resources to develop recreational sports, so there is much more to be done than there is now, and these newly created sports facilities need to be used not only for competitive sports purposes, but also opened up to people. I would therefore like to emphasise once again that the presentation, this concrete proposal, will be supported by our group. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-16-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-16-129	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment on three topics. The first is the subject of sensitivity. I think it's one of the most important things, sensitivity. I have already said several times here and at committee meetings that, without social awareness-forming, no matter how much money we give to education, sport, health and other services, if sensitivity and awareness-forming are not achieved, there is no real transformation and attitude towards the affairs of people with disabilities. Just an example of my personal example: here, in the Hungarian Parliament, the sight of Hungarian sign language and the sight of sign language interpreters is natural for all Members. It is not so natural in Europe and the world. Very few countries have deaf representatives. So that's the way we're at the forefront. I really hope this is gonna take a long time. The other: I would like to join my fellow Member, László Varga. I understand the position of the MSZP, but my amendment was made in relation to the benefit, so it was about making it uniform, so there is no difference. Another issue is that there is an argument about reward, why intact athletes and parasportsmen and deaflimpics get so much, so much, but this is the subject of another debate, it would really be worth arguing about. The proposal was just about the benefit, and that's why I couldn't understand their abstention. My third comment relates to my fellow Member, György Szilágyi. I am very sorry that we have just listened to such a speech. Mrs Dóra Dúró also said at the beginning that this proposal is about a specific situation, and it is independent of party policy, so she tried to say what she had to say. I accept that György Szilágyi is very interested in the aspects that he has listed, but I also feel at heart about deaf running, so I would like to give you a piece of information. I would like to point out that the Hungarian Football Association has been supporting football players of Hungarian hearing impaired people for years and the football association with various equipments, ticket fees, free of charge by providing international judges. So what you can do, the MLS is doing everything they can. But it's true that now this case has come up, that he hasn't given a jersey to the run team, he's given it earlier. However, the rules have also changed within MLSZ, the rules have changed. According to this, titled jersey is given only to the MLSZ-based team, and the Hungarian hearing-damaged team did not receive the titled jersey, but everything else did. [[14.20]] Therefore, I would also like to announce that yesterday's case has been resolved. The Hungarian Paralympics Association, the Hungarian Football Association and the Hungarian Paralympic Committee sought a common solution, and perhaps the Hungarian Paralympics Committee, together with the 12 selected balls delivered yesterday, sought a joint solution for the Hungarian deaf runners' team. So, in this respect, this case has been resolved. Another question is whether we agree with the fact that only selectmen under the auspices of MLSZ can get a titled selection uniform. This will be the subject of a separate debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-16-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-16-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am very sorry if, according to Gergely Tapolczai, what I said, there were party political considerations. I think I've said everything I've said in terms of sports. If you have listened to my speech, yes, I have also said that this matter has been resolved today, but I have not said that the Hungarian Paralympic Committee, but that it has indeed been resolved with the help of László Szabó, who is, by the way, the Chairman of the Paralympic Committee. So I said this in my speech, too, but I do not think it is appropriate, and that is why I said that perhaps the secretary of state could say something about her intervention or that others might say something about it. But I also said it wasn't a cardinal question, but I think it's one of those little things that shows that there's something more to be done on these issues. I am very sorry, once again, if you have considered this to be a party political point of view, my fellow Member. I have clearly tried to outline sports professional aspects, since I consider this a sports professional aspect and not a party political aspect. Let's take an example. We fully supported it all along, even though things didn't go as well as when we agreed at the five-party meeting to host the World Water Championship in Budapest. The whole time. Jobbik was the only party that didn't back out of this initiative and supported it all along. Once again, there were things that we didn't like about the arrangement, for example, about the execution. But it is no longer a party political aspect, in my opinion, that we are organising a very successful World Championship, the whole world recognises that, in such a short time, this level of competition really praises Hungary, and in addition, I say it even increased the country's premium. I do not think that it would be a party political aspect if I said that I am very sorry that one day after the World Championship's closing ceremony, the Hungarian media was no longer about how successful this world championship was, we were not talking about how successful the Masters World Championship was probably going to be, which was indeed a very successful competition afterwards, and which, I say, was not negligible for the country's income, but we were talking about what Gusztáv Bienerth was saying and what scandals there were in the Swimming Alliance. I think it was harmful, and I am not speaking from a party political point of view, but from a sports policy and professional point of view, that, instead of talking about success, the scandal had already been discussed the day after. And that's because, in my opinion, we shouldn't have been so involved, say, in the presidential election of a sports union, and, say, putting a man who wasn't worthy of it in my opinion. And when we talk about World Cups, it really hurt a lot, by the way, that you weren't transparent enough to have corruption opportunities for the World Cup. Understand that these - and this was also in the Olympics - can clearly be used by those who, say, want to attack sports, because there was a disproportionate spending towards sport. Therefore, there should be some proportion of the development of the various social segments or economic segments of the country and a proportion of the development of sport. And that is true: if you go to a hospital today in Hungary, one of your relatives goes to the hospital, and you see the conditions in health care, then if someone tells you that there is not a penny for health care, but we have spent 400 billion on sports in the last seven years, why not spend it on health care, then the question is legitimately, if health is in this state, then why not spend more money on health care? And from now on, it can be translated into a social perspective, which I believe to be a social approach, that people in Hungary love sport very, very much. There have been examples of this, as we can see how enthusiastic people can be in world competitions. But if the situation in other segments is getting worse and we can talk about education, health, everything, and sports are constantly making big investments, it will eventually trigger negative feelings in society. But so much for that; I would like to return to the promotion of sport. So I consider it a very important aspect to promote world competitions and athletes who deserve and achieve results and sport itself. What I don't understand is that, for example, when we discussed the budget... I'm telling you, we spend 400 billion on sport in seven years, government communication is set at 20 billion forints in the budget, to promote sport against 20 billion for government communications. 25 million forints - 25! And when we submit an amendment to raise it to at least 225 million, so 200 million forints, which I still say is very small, it is voted off. So the promotion of sport, which you consider to be a strategic sector, in a sector like this, what is 25 million forints a year enough for? Nothing! And more importantly, promoting sport would be more important. So I think, as I said, that athletes should be introduced, that they should be introduced to the sports world, and that they should be introduced to the sports sectors, so that they can enjoy sports. There are programs and attempts to do this, and I say they're perfect, too, the big sports picker or whatever events I can say, but it's not enough. So I think that promotion should be more intense in people's daily lives. And let me give you an example of that. I respect and respect the kayak canoes. I've always been happy for their victories. It just seems so easy when you're sitting in front of the TV and watching how long it takes to get in and win, say, Olympic medals. And they don't see every day, they don't see uprisings, they don't see races, and they don't know how much work that means. And then there's the social debates that come, which are also debates, whether Olympic champions deserve the amount they get for an Olympic title, or they don't deserve it, because most people don't even know how much work lies behind an Olympic title. And here comes the personal example. I never rowed. [[Towards Dóra Dúró:]] [[Towards Dóra Dúró:]] Then the congresswoman was able to make us sit in a dragon ship on the night of the Olympics. And I was, and then I said, "It's so stupid that I gave in to this seduction, and I sat in, and we rowed from Újpest completely..." (Dúró Dóra:) Where was the final stop? [[On Dóra Dúró's mark:]] - Soft. I almost died half the time. I said never again. Now, looking back, it's been a huge experience, and I'm pretty much aware of what it means. And I could say the same about the world of swimming; I don't have to tell Szabó Fairy. So it's easy to limit a racer's life for a few seconds, and then to declare success for two weeks, but when you have to get up in the cold and at dawn, you have to go to trainings, and you don't really know how much work lies behind those tenths of a second. All these could be presented, and the promotion of sport would count from here on out. I believe that if we spent a lot more on promoting sport, and that includes such days, I will say once again what we are deciding now, then we could change the way we think and the way we think about sport in society. This is the last example. It can be sharpened, let's say, against various sports, and I have experienced this for many years, and it can even be said, for decades, for example, about football, because you can find things that irritate people about football. [[14.30]] But it is never or never, but very few people say that there is a lot of work to be done in order to be a listed football player. So they don't just get it by going to the football field and then they get millions of dollars' pay. But how can these things be felt within society, that is for sure, and with this, I think that politics should be concerned with a completely different view of both athletes and sports and the importance of sport, and that we can encourage as many people as possible to play sports in everyday life, do any sport, because it has health effects, but it also has a very good impact on people's souls when they play sports and experience experiences, and it is very important what programs we start. I really do not want to waste any more time, and I say that I am pleased that this is the case, Madam President and Madam President, thank you to all the parties for your support, thank you for bringing such a proposal together. I say that we are talking about an important proposal, but let us not forget that we have plenty to do for Hungarian sports, because Hungarian sport is very important for Hungary. And if Viktor Orbán hadn't taken this slogan, I'd say now that you go, Hungary, go, Hungarians! In my opinion, this must be a very important aspect of Hungarian society as a whole. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-11-16-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Tapolczai applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2017-11-16-133	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Just a few thoughts, and I would like to conclude this debate, at least, for my part. Yes, I have been listening, and I know that my fellow Member Szilágyi also said that the field has been resolved, but I thought it was important to inform my fellow Members with more information. I accept and it is natural for Jobbik to have any professional arguments in relation to the field of sport now, but I think that this could have been done in the debate on the amendment of the sport law or the sport law rather than on this proposal. I think it was a shame to spoil the good mood. If it hadn't been for my fellow Member to say that if he had been on the Jobbik government, I don't think his voice would have gotten political. Thank you.
u2017-11-16-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Dóra Dúró, as rapporteur, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-16-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for your contributions and your support. I am pleased that we have been able to hold a general debate on this proposal with such a mood and discussion. As I indicated in the author's exposé, I am in a bit of a strange situation because I am the representative of a five-party proposal, and in this sense I cannot answer the points that have been raised in substance, yet let me answer some of them without speaking on behalf of my fellow authors. I would like to thank Mr Tapolczai for drawing attention to his wish to make an amendment or to supplement the proposal. Of course, I am not yet able to make a substantive statement on behalf of the authors as to whether we will be able to support this or not, but I would also like to say to the honourable Member that, when the proposal was made, it was a matter of particular importance that not only parasportists, but all athletes with disabilities, could take ownership of this day, so we have paid attention to this, and therefore, in addition, compared to the date originally planned, it has been included in the proposal that we originally planned. Therefore, this aspect is also an eligible criterion from the authors. Whether or not we support your specific proposal still requires consultation with the other authors. Also with Congressman Tapolczai, I felt a little bit that the term healthy children, as I said in my expo, felt a bit like I was facing disabled children, of course not, and there wasn't... [[On Dr. Gergely Tapolczai's mark:]] No, you didn't feel that way, all right, thank you very much, Congressman. Of course, that's not what I meant when I talked about children's health. Congressman László Varga raised the question of reward. Although this is not part of this proposal, I would also like to say that László Szabó, as Chairman of the Paralympic Committee, at the same committee meeting, when he proposed this Parasport Day, also made a specific proposal on the issue of reward, and I would also like to see a consensus reached in it, of course, with the involvement of the Paralympic Committee and based on their proposal. I am very encouraged by this proposal, so I would like to see a discussion in the other proposals, and we can also come to some consensus in this regard, because I see that in Parasport this is a very important issue, and it is also a subject of debate among us many times. We haven't been able to get to a resting point so far. Now we have a concrete proposal from the committee itself. I trust that it will be acceptable to the other parties of the Parliament and also to the government. So if we succeed in adopting this proposal, then, of course, this work will not stop. Once again, I thank you all for your participation in the debate and your comments. I would also like to thank Mrs Secretary of State for being here at the hearing of the proposal, and I would also like to thank Mrs Secretary-General for her perseverance and for having honoured Parliament's plenary session with her presence. Thank you all very much for your support.
u2017-11-16-136	On my behalf, I also thank you all for your participation, for the debate, and I wish you to do everything you can for athletes, for sport. Thank you. I may have this much opportunity as a senior president, and I couldn't let it go. Thank you again. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have an after-the-meet speech. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2017-11-16-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Another day, the day of the Hungarian language, led me to take the floor after the agenda at the Parliament's meeting today, because on 13 November we are celebrating the day of the Hungarian language, the significance of which I think we cannot stress enough. In this respect, I would like to take a little look at what measures have been taken in the government over the past period, and I would also like to draw attention to the further measures that would be needed, as well as the civil activity that is taking place in Hungary, the role of civil society in this area as an example. The government created the Hungarian Institute of Language Strategy, which I considered not only as President of the Cultural Committee, but also as an extremely forward-looking and important social initiative from my personal convictions, and I still consider it, although the situation is a little sadder, I think it was when the initiative was launched. The government decree itself would have been good, and the tasks imposed by the legislator on the Hungarian Institute for Linguistic Strategy could have been good, but I believe that this important social issue has been derailed. [[14.40]] The fact that it was created as an office of the government and I believe that it was not properly managed by MANYSI is perhaps obvious today, which is why a change of leadership was necessary. I think it would be desirable for an independent institution based on science and serving society to be established and operated, but the current Institute of Language Strategy is much more invisible than supporting other initiatives rather than living with them, and, as they say, there are no traces of language strategies. In parallel, the work of civilians is exemplary, and the heart of man bleeds because there would be knowledge, scientific achievement, the social approach that would be needed to operate this Institute of Language Strategy effectively, and so that it can fulfil its own social role, but there is still no cooperation between the Institute of Language Strategy and even the Hungarian Research Group. Every five years, the Research Group on Language Strategy prepares a very serious, comprehensive, scientific report on the Hungarian language. This could basically be the task of the institution created by the government itself, yet it does not do so, nor did it seek contact with the Hungarian Language Strategy Research Group. MANYSZI, the Hungarian Language Service Office, has been operating in Hungary since 2006, which can also make an extraordinary contribution to socializing the language, language awareness and the care of the Hungarian language. For example, one of these services is a 24-hour language counseling service available on elingo.hu; I myself use it a lot during the legislative process, for example, so thank you to the staff of the Hungarian Language Service Office. For example, the Hungarian Institute of Language Strategy did not seek contact with the various university departments either. So there would be plenty of work to do to cultivate, maintain, and maintain the values of our language, and that of the 21st century, which stands before the language. The challenges of the 20th century can be tackled as much as possible, and for this it would be essential, for example, to have a regular language review of the fields of expertise. Here, I do not want to address the issue of Hungarians across the border in this speech, because this is an even more complex area of Hungarians with extraordinary resources, how many bilingual professionals we could train among Hungarians across the border if the government paid attention to this. For understandable communication, it is also very important to have the activity, educational activity that civilians are doing; and here it is enough to think about the use of the media, because, for example, in the case of public media, perhaps so much misconception and so much wrongdoing did not occur much as in the past period, even though it has an extremely important role to play in shaping the social perspective. The week of the Hungarian language series has now been held for 52 years for a continuous civil initiative, which can also draw attention to the importance of this area, but of course there are also a number of civil initiatives on the day of the Hungarian language. So the fact that the legislator acknowledged that the day of the Hungarian language should exist, should be established and established the Hungarian Institute of Language Strategy was correct; at the same time, they made a lot of mistakes in professional implementation, and made a lot of mistakes, so, unfortunately, in my view, there has been little potential for meaningful progress in recent years. Thank you for your attention. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2017-11-16-138	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Thank you. [[Meeting ended at 2.43 p.m.]]
